Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RePort No. 13644
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2534-IN)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II - India
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATE AND ABBREVIATIONS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1 = Paisa 100
Rupee (Rs.)/US$ Exchange Rates and WPI (Yearly Averages)
(April 1 - March 31)
Wholesale Price Index
Fiscal Year                       Rupees/US$                      FY80/81 = 100
FY85                                11.89                              120.1
FY86                                12.24                              125.4
FY87                                12.79                              132.7
FY88                                12.97                              143.6
FY89                                14.48                              154.3
FY90                                16.66                              165.7
FY91                                17.95                              182.7
FY92                                24.52                             207.8
FY93                                26.41                             228.7
FY94                                31.37                             238.7
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                                   British/US system
1 meter (m)                              3.281
1 kilometer (km)                         0.621
I tkm                                    ton-kilometer (0.621 ton-mile)
I pkm                                    passenger-kilometer (0.621 passenger-mile)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BB           Balfour Beatty Construction
CCL          Continenantal Construction Limited
CRRI         Central Road Research Institute
DPR          Detailed Project Report
GOI          Goverment of India
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
HDM          Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
MOST         Ministry of Surface Transport
NH           National Highways
NHI          First National Highway
NPV          Net Present Value
PCR          Project Completion Report
PIC          Project Implementation Cell
PWD          Public Works Department
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
THE WOPLD BANK
W80*0on, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
National Hihway Project (Loan 2534-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - National Highway Project (Loan 2534-IN)
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower. The US$200
million Loan was approved in April 1985 and, after one year extension, it was closed on December
31, 1994, and US$96.6 million were cancelled.
Except for the Bihar Rural Roads Project (approved in 1980 and unsatisfactorily completed in
1987), this was the only highway project financed by the Bank Group in India in almost twenty-five
years. Resumption of lending was made possible by Government agreement to accept international
competitive bidding and the project aimed to improve the institutional framework, to modernize the
road construction industry, and to rehabilitate segments of the national highway network.
The PCR states that the most important result of the project is that through its failures it has
helped to expose the weaknesses in project implementation of the local road construction industry,
of the Ministry of Surface Transport, and of the State Public Works Departments. Project results
are indeed far from satisfactory. At loan closure, overall physical progress was only 48%. The bulk
of the civil works will not be completed for at another three to four years. The project's institution-
building objectives were not met. Studies have been completed but their recommendations are not
being implemented.
Preparation of project components by the Borrower was inadequate; implementation capabilities
of both local contractors and of the Government of India were overestimated by the Bank;
prequalification of contractors was poor; relationships between the Ministry of Surface Transport and
State Public Works Departments were ill-defined; and experienced consultants were not used. The
project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional impact as
negligible.
The PCR is of good quality and notable for its heroic attempts to predict the economic return
of a half completed project. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2534-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ......................................................                                                            i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ...........................................   ii
Introduction    .... ...... .......................... ........ .. .. .                                          ii
Objectives and Project Description ..................................   ii
Implementation Experience .......................................   ii
Project Results .....           ............ ....
Project Sustainability  ..................ii i
Findings and Lessons Learned .....................................   iv
PART  I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ....................                                                   I
I. PROJECT IDENTITY ..............................................  1
II.  BACKGROUND   ................................................                                                          I
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPT'ION    .......................                                                         2
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ................                                                                        3
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .                             .....................................   4
VI. PROJECT RESULTS ........................                                                                                7
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                   .......................                                       9
VIII.  BANK  PERFORMANCE  .................... .....................    10
IX.  BORROWER  PERFORMANCE                        ..................                 ....................    10
X. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP  .                         .......................................  11
XI.  CONSULTING  AND  CONTRACTING  SERVICES   .....                                     ....................    11
XII.  PROJECT  DOCUMENTATION  DATA                             ...............i.................   lt
This documient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of  Contents  (Cont'd)                                                                        Page No.
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ......                                .......  12
1. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION   ..............................   12
11. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT  ................................   12
111. PERFORMANCE BY THE BORROWER  .............                         ...................   13
IV. BANK'S PERFORMANCE ......                  ..............               .....................   15
V. RELATIONSHIP WITH THE BANK  ...................................   16
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .................................  17
TABLE 1: Project Data  .........................................   17
TABLE 2: Project Timetable ......................................   17
TABLE 3: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ...........................   18
TABLE 4: Project Finances .......................................   18
TABLE 5: Expected and Actual Implementation  ..........................   19
TABLE 6: Expected and Actual Cumulative Disbursements ...................  19
TABLE 7: Expected and Actual Cost and Expenditures ......................  20
TABLE 8: Economic Impact ......................................   20
TABLE 9: Field Mission Data Yearwise ...............................  21
ANNEX 1:        Economic Evaluation recalculated following SAR (Scenario A) ...               .........  22
ANNEX 2:    Economic Evaluation following actual implementation (Scenario B)  ...                ......  29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2534-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Highway Project in India,
for which Loan 2534-IN in the amount of US$200 million was approved on April 15, 1985. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1994, one year behind schedule. Actual loan disbursements totalled
US$103.4 million, due to the cancellation of US$37 million in FY92 and US$30 million in FY93. A
further US$29.6 million was cancelled after May 11, 1994 which was the date of the last disbursement
on the project.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the South Asia Country
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). It was sent on
June 6, 1994, to the Government of India for comments on the parts drafted by the Bank. Comments
together with Part II were received on June 24, 1994.
Preparation of the Bank's contribution to this PCR was started during a mission to the
country in May 1994, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports and project files.






- ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2534-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.         The National Highway Project (NHI) was the first project in the highway subsector in almost
twenty five years. The reason for this long gap in lending was the preference by the Government of India
(GOI) to use local competitive bidding for highway projects. The resumption of lending to the highway
subsector was warranted by the Bank due to the increasing congestion and deterioration of the National
Highway (NH) Network, and its increasing importance in the transport modal split.
Obiectives and Project Description
2.         The project's objectives were to improve the institutional framework, modernize the road
construction industry, and rehabilitate/construct segments of the NH network. These objectives were to
be met through: (a) the construction/rehabilitation of about 520 km of highways in six states, the works
ranging from a new 92 km expressway to simple highway strengthening, and including a major bridge
across the Ganges at Varanasi; (b) the procurement of imported equipment to assist MOST and the State
Public Works Departments (PWDs) to monitor road condition and usage, and to promote road safety; (c)
technical assistance and training of MOST/State PWDs personnel; and (d) studies by consultants/GOI
research groups regarding modernization of India's motor vehicle fleet and desirable levels of road user
charges.
Implementation Experience
3.         The overall responsibility for the implementation of the project was with the Ministry of
Surface Transport (MOST) even though the actual preparation and management of the physical works was
to be done by the State PWDs on an agency basis.
4.         The implementation record of the project is mixed at best. The bulk of the civil works
components of the project were not completed and will not be completed for at least another three to four
years. At loan closure, the overall physical progress of the project was only 48%. A total of US$67
million has been cancelled from the project before loan closure and a further US$29.6 million will be
cancelled after loan closure. This gives a total disbursement for the project of US$103.4 million (over
a 9 year period) out of a project total of US$200 million.
5.         The non civil work components of the project were implemented even though there were
major delays. All of the major items of equipment have been procured and are being used. The



- iii -
training/TA components of the project were fully implemented, leading to the transfer of skills and
knowledge. GOI has commissioned and prepared all of the studies even though it has yet to implement
their recommendations.
Project Results
6.         The physical objectives of the project were not achieved, with most of the civil work
components not completed. With the exception of certain road sections in Punjab, none of the road
subprojects are open to traffic and most of them will not be completed for at least another two to three
years, all at a great cost to the economy. So far, the quality of the civil works that have been completed
is of an acceptable quality.
7.         The real costs of the civil works both in US Dollar and in Rupee (Rs.) terms seems to have
decreased during the life of the project especially if the devaluation of the Rs. and inflation are taken into
account. In nominal terms, at project closing the financial progress on the civil works was around Rs.
2500 million, consistent with the approximate 50% physical completion rate.
9.         The project has had some success in achieving its non-physical objectives. The training and
TA components of the project have improved to some extent the implementation capabilities of the
borrower by exposing it to modern project management techniques. Also, it has helped introduce in the
country modern construction and management techniques which today are more widely accepted and used.
9.         Possibly, the most important result of the project is that through its failures it has helped
to expose the weaknesses in project implementation of both the local road construction industry and of
MOST/State PWDs.
10.        Economic evaluation: the recalculation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) following
the methodology used in the SAR was not possible due to insufficient data and the non-completion of
most of the project components. What was done was to recalculate the ERR following as closely as
possible the assumptions and data used in the SAR which gave an higher ERR (36% vs. 26%) and a
lower Net Present Value (NPV) (Rs. 40374 million vs. Rs. 46324 million). The difference in the results
can be explained by the use of different road roughness and congestion factors in the two exercises. The
results of the first exercise where then compared to a second exercise which assumed the probable
completion date for the project, final cost, and projected traffic growth. Actual traffic figures and
expenditures for the 1987 through 1993 were used. The results of the second analysis produced a much
lower ERR (29% vs. 36%) and NPV (Rs. 26032 million vs. Rs. 40374 million). The primary reason for
the lower results were the long delays in the completion of project components (5 years in some cases)
and the higher than forecasted traffic growth for the 1985 to 1993 period. The delays in the completion
of the project components have lead to an economic loss of Rs. 14,342 million (US$463 million) to the
Indian economy, which is more than the original project cost (US$ 424.7 million).
Project Sustainabilitv
11.        Due to the non-completion of most of the civil works components of the project it is difficult
to evaluate whether or not the design life of the roads will be met. In one case (Punjab) the quality of
the work that has been completed would indicate that the design life of the road would be met. However,
the sample from Punjab is too small to draw any conclusions on the sustainability of all of the civil



- iv-
works. Also, the amounts that will be allocated for the maintenance of the project roads has yet to be
determined.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.        Several findings and lessons emerge from the project, and some of them have already been
incorporated in the design of the follow-on Second National Highway Project which was approved on
April 14, 1992. Furthermore for the Third National Highway Project, a National Highway Authority will
be established to better address the problems associated with the ill-defined relationship between MOST
and the State PWDs, lax prequalification criteria, poor project preparation, and weak local road
construction industry, that have negatively affected project implementation.
13.        The single most important lesson of the project is the large economic cost of delays in the
implementation of road projects in India. This is because of the high congestion on certain portions of
the NH network, the rapid traffic growth, and the high roughness coefficients which give high rates of
return for highway projects. Thus, delays in implementation of highway projects in India have a high
economic cost as was the case in the NHI Project.
14.         Some of the other lessons learned from the project were: (a) the need for stricter and more
thorough prequalification criteria for contractors; (b) the need for a much clearer definition of the
working relationship between MOST and the State PWDs; (c) land acquisition and the removal of utilities
and other obstacles on the right-away should be completed before the award of contracts; (d) contractors
must better prepare their price bids; (e) the need for consulting firms with international experience to do
the engineering, design and supervision of works rather than doing it in-house; and (f) design and
construction specifications not suitable for mechanized construction techniques.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2534-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:                                  National Highway Project
Loan Number:                                   2534-IN
RVP Unit:                                      South Asia Regional Office
Country Department II
Country:                                       India
Sector:                                        Transport (Infrastructure)
Subsector:                                     Highways
II. BACKGROUND
2.01       The total length of the Indian road network is 1,890,000 km of which only 32,000 km
(1.7% of the total) are classified as NH. The NH network carries about 35% of traffic in terms of
vehicle-km, and if the share carried by state roads (6.8% of total network) is added, the combined total
increases to 75 %. Over the last 30 years, road transport has become the dominant transport mode, and
during the last decade it has been growing at over 10% per year. At present, the road network carries
55 % of all freight traffic in terms of ton-km and over 80 % of passenger traffic in terms of passenger-km
for a combined share of about 75%. The vehicle population has grown from .3 million in 1951 to 21.3
million in 1991.
2.02       To meet the increasing demand for road transport, a twenty year road development plan
(1981-2001) was prepared by the GOI with the objective of increasing the NH network from 32,000 to
66,000 km by the end of the period. This was a very ambitious target to attain, taking into consideration
the fact that the NH network expanded by less than 10,000 km from 1950 to 1980. Also, the 8th plan
(1992-1996) allocations for the NH system are only about 40% of what is actually needed to improve the
current network (let alone expand it), making it virtually impossible to meet the objectives of the twenty



2
year road development plan. In addition, as a share of Plan funds, road investment allocations have
dropped steadily from a high of 5.5 percent in the 4th Plan to 3 percent in the 8th Plan. More
importantly, in the 8th plan the NH network will get only 20% of the road budget illocations even though
it carries 35 % of the traffic. Thus not only has funding for road construction in general been inadequate,
but a higher priority has been given to the construction of rural roads. In the future, unless there is a
major shift in resources, funding for the NH network will remain inadequate to cope with the projected
continued rapid increase in traffic.
2.03       With the exception of the Bihar Rural Roads Project, from 1961 to 1985 there was no Bank
lending to the road subsector due to GOI's preference for local competitive bidding. Lending in the
transport sector during this period was almost exclusively to Indian Railways and the port subsector. Due
to the acceptance by GOI of International Competitive Bidding (ICB), the Bank resumed lending to the
road subsector in 1985 with the NHI Project.
2.04       With the renewal of lending to the road subsector the Bank has had a more balanced lending
program in the transport sector, better reflecting the growing importance of roads in the transport modal
split. Since the NHI Project, the Bank has prepared a further two lending operations in the road sector;
the States Road Project (1988) and the Second National Highway Project (1992) and is currently in the
process of preparing two more.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01       Obiectives:To foster institutional development by introducing modern methods of highway
design and construction, strengthening capabilities to select and road investments by using techniques of
economic evaluation, initiating studies to facilitate cost-recovery by establishing an appropriate system
of road-user charges and to deterrnine to what extent and by what means modern, more fuel-efficient
vehicles could be encouraged to use the road system, to develop the local contracting industry and to
reduce present traffic congestion through selected road investments.
3.02       Project Description:The project consisted of the following components:
(a)  the construction/rehabilitation of existing sections of the NH network, together with the
construction of two expressways, and a major bridge in the following States;
(i) in Gujarat, construction of a new four-lane toll expressway (92 km long) connecting
Ahmedabad and Vadodara, in the main Delhi-Bombay corridor of NH8;
(ii) in Haryana, construction of an additional two-lane carriageway and strengthening of
the existing two lane NH 1 for about 80 km between Murthal and Karnal;
(iii) in Punjab, provision of an additional two-lane carriageway along with strengthening
of the existing NH 1 (two lane width) for about 121 km between Sirhind and
Jullundur;
(iv) in Tamil Nadu, provision of an additional two-lane carriageway and strengthening
of the existing NH 45 from km 27 to 67 (Madras-Dindigul section) and of the



3
existing two lane carriageway (along with provision of 2.5 m wide paved shoulders)
from km 67 to 160 of NH 45;
(v)  in Uttar Pradesh on NH2, a 30 km two-lane bypass of the city of Varanasi, including
a major bridge over the Ganges River; and
(vi)  in West Bengal, a new 65 km two-lane road, with at-grade intersections and service
roads, linking the centers of Dankuni (about 20 km from) Calcutta) and Palsit, in the
main Calcutta-Delhi corridor of NH2;
(b)   procurement of specialized equipment for monitoring road condition  and usage, for
facilitating bridge inspections and to provide equipment for vehicle testing stations;
(c)  technical assistance and training for the staff of MOST/State PWDs; and
(d)  studies (through Consultants or research organizations) relating to vehicle fleet
modernization and desirable levels of road user charges.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01       The conceptual foundations of the project were clear to the Bank from the very beginning
of project preparation. In the early eighties, when the project was initially discussed with GOI, the Bank's
objectives for lending to the highway subsector included institution building of the implementing agencies
and construction industry modernization. To achieve these objectives, ICB, larger contract packages, and
more stringent prequalification criteria were made sine qua non conditions for Bank participation. The
acceptance by GOI of these objectives meant that for the first time ICB would be used in the road
subsector, and that the NHI Project would be the catalyst to modernize the subsector.
4.02       In large part through the NHI Project, modern road construction and management techniques
were introduced in the Indian context for the first time, making it a highly innovative project. At the time
of the NHI Project the structure of the road construction industry was highly fragmented, with the
industry being dominated by small contractors using labor intensive construction techniques, working on
small contract packages supervised by PWD Engineers. This was the result of a deliberate policy by GOI
of making contract packages small to attract the largest possible number of contractors on a project. This
system has proven to be effective in the construction of rural roads, but not for the rapid construction of
high quality roads needed to relieve the growing congestion, heavy axle loads and rough pavements on
the NH network.
4.03       The increasing congestion and under investment in the NH network made the Bank's
renewed participation in the subsector both timely and appropriate. After several years of on and off
dialogue between the Bank and GOI, the preparation of the NHI project began. The project took over two
years to prepare, and it involved numerous preparatory missions prior to appraisal. The selection and
prioritization of the physical components of the project was done with the help of the Highway Design
and Maintenance Model (HDM) using strict economic and technical criteria. The result of using the HDM
model was to select a project with an overall estimated ERR of 26%, with none of the subprojects having
an ERR of less than 16%. High ERRs for road projects in India are common due to the heavy congestion



4
of most of the links of the NH and State Road networks. The preparation of Techno-Economic Feasibility
Studies and Detailed Project Reports (DPRs), was done by local consultant firms for all of the states with
the exception of the subprojects in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu which were done in-house. At the time,
the perception of the Bank was that the overall quality of the engineering work done by the State PWDs
and the consulting firms was of an acceptable standard to proceed with the appraisal of the project. With
hindsight, this proved not to be the case due to the poor quality in many cases of the basic field surveys
on which project design and engineering were founded.
4.04       The overall responsibility for the implementation of the project was with the MOST, while
the actual preparation and management of the physical works was the responsibility of the State PWDs
working on an agency basis for MOST. This system was (and still is) being used for the construction and
maintenance of the NH system in India, with the State PWD's acting as implementing agents both for
project preparation, management and maintenance of the NH network.
4.05       Even though the agency system was well established, in the case of the NHI Project, it has
proven to be a very poor institutional framework for the execution of the project. Poor communications,
a cumbersome chain of command, and weak decision making powers, are some of the numerous
weaknesses of the agency system that have hampered the progress of the project. In retrospect, the
inherent weaknesses of the agency system were not properly taken into account in the design and
organization of the project, especially when considering the ambitious timing and objectives of the
project.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01       The implementation of the civil works components of the project, which represented
approximately 98% of the value of the project, has been unsatisfactory. The overall physical progress of
the civil work components of the project was approximately 48% at the extended closing date of
December 31, 1993. Of the Original 43 civil works contracts, only 6 have been substantially completed,
and in 14 contracts, clause 63 of the contractual agreement had to be used to expel contractors. With
regards to financial progress, disbursements have been only 51.7% of the original loan amount of US$200
million and 77.2% of the revised loan amount of US$133 million. A total of US$67 million was cancelled
(US$37 million in FY92, and 30 million in FY93) before the lozn was closed, due to the poor
performance of contracts in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and West Bengal.The last
disbursement on the project was made on May 11, 1994 and there was an undisbursed balance of
US$29.6 remaining in the project. With the closing of the project, four of the better performing contract
packages valued at approximately US$15 million were transferred to the Second National Highway
Project, to ensure their timely completion. The overall poor implementation performance (especially of
the civil works components of the project) is attributable to a variety of factors:
5.02       Firstly, after a 25 year hiatus in lending to the highway subsector, the true implementation
capabilities of both GOI and the local road construction industry were not known by the Bank. In
retrospect, this led to the design of a project with ambitious objectives, when compared with the actual
implementation capabilities of the subsector at the time. For example, one of the key objectives of the
project was the large scale construction of high standard roads using mechanized construction techniques,
even though the local construction industry were technically, financially and managerially unprepared.



5
Also, there was marked resistance at the state level to accepting the changes that the project was
introducing to the subsector.
5.03       Secondly, the prequalification criteria adopted was not sufficiently stringent, leading in many
cases to the selection of financially, managerially, and technically weak contractors, incapable of handling
large scale road construction contracts. One of the consequences of lax prequalification criteria, was that
many of the contracts went to parastatal firms with little or no road construction experience who then had
to subcontracted back-to-back most of the work. These subcontracting arrangements were used
unsuccessfully in West Bengal, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, leading to long delays in project
implementation, due to extensive litigation between the contractor and the subcontractor.
5.04       Thirdly, the technical and financial weakness of most of the qualified contractors was
compounded by low rates quoted to win the contracts. This was because of the lack of experience of most
of the then prequalified contractors in executing mechanized road construction work. The combination
of low rates, the long delay from the time of bid evaluation to contract award (in some cases more than
one year), and the system of time-based instead of performance-based repayment of mobilization
advances, exacerbated even further the already weak financial position of most of the contractors.
5.05       Fourthly, with the exception of the Afcons/Pauling joint venture which was awarded
contracts in both Tamil Nadu and Punjab, all other joint venture agreements between local and
experienced foreign road contractors failed. This was particularly damaging to the implementation of the
project, all of the tenders for the largest road contract packages were awarded to the joint ventures. For
instance, the contracts for the construction of the non-bridge portions of the Vadodara to Ahmedabad
Expressway (NE1), by far the most important civil works component of the project, was awarded to the
Continental Construction (CCL)/Balfour Beatty (BB) joint venture.
5.06       For reasons not known to the Bank, BB pulled out of the joint venture on all the contracts
in both Gujarat (NE 1) and Haryana (NH 1). At least two construction seasons were lost before MOST and
the State PWDs decided to re-award through a supplementary agreement the contracts to CCL alone, the
financially and technically weaker partner of the joint venture. This was done despite the Bank's advice
to cancel the contracts and re-tender them. The Bank eventually suspended disbursements on these
contracts, and in February of 1992 canceled them from the project.
5.07       In the case of Tamil Nadu, the Byford/Ragi joint venture was unwilling to furnish security
guarantees for the contracts they had been awarded leading to their expulsion. It took over one year to
re-award the contracts to the second lowest evaluated bidder.
5.08       Fifthly, the agency system used by GOI for the preparation and management of the project
was ineffective due to a weak institutional arrangement between MOST and the State PWDs, and poor
communication channels. Furthermore, the respective responsibilities and accountability of all parties
involved in the agency agreement were not clearly defined nor in practice adequately followed. Half way
through the project, a Project Implementation Cell (PIC), headed by a Chief Engineer was established
to address these problems and improve MOST's decision making abilities. However, the PIC was only
partly successful in improving project management and coordination. Even today the MOST/State PWD
agency system is the weak link in project implementation in the road subsector. It is hoped that the
recently established National Highway Authority will improve the implementation capabilities of GOI in
the road subsector.



6
5.09       Sixthly, the reluctance of PWD supervision staff to abide with the contractual terms and
obligations of the contract combined with their lack of experience in dealing with contracts based on
international (FIDIC) conditions led to an inordinate amount of claims and litigation. Also, the legal
system further encouraged contractual litigation through easy access to injunctions, stays of execution,
etc.
5.10       A variety of other reasons also contributed to the poor implementation of the project such
as: (a) delays in land acquisition and in the removal of utilities and trees from the right of way; (b) weak
contract management skills by contractors and State PWDs (c) high turnover of State PWD's staff leading
to weak project supervision; (d) shortage of experienced mechanized road contractors; (e) poor
procurement efficiency (causing delays in invitation of bids and award of works); (f) unfavorable law and
order situation in Punjab; (g) customs delays in the importation of machinery; and (h) poor quality of
surveys and design.
5.11       However, taking into consideration the weak institutional, technical/financial capacities of
the contractors, MOST and the State PWDs at the time, the implementation record of the project
improves to some extent. In other words, it would have been difficult to achieve much better
implementation results, taking into consideration the technical, financial and institutional weakness of the
system at the start of the project. Also, the project introduced many innovative features to the execution
and management of road construction such as the; (a) prequalification of contractors; (b) mechanization
and modernization of road construction techniques; (c) the adoption of larger contract packages to
facilitate economies of scale in road construction; (d) the use of ICB procedures for procurement; and
(e) the payment of mobilization advances to contractors.
5.12       A more rigorous prequalification of contractors, a more effective institutional arrangement
between MOST and the State PWDs, and a more thorough preparation (especially from an engineering
point of view) of the subprojects, would have improved project implementation. Also, better contract
management skills by both the contractors and the Borrower would have reduced some of the
implementation delays of the project. More specifically, if the road work contracts in Gujarat (NE1) and
Haryana (NH1) were re-tendered, rather than re-awarded to CCL, project implementation on these two
very important subprojects would have improved. Also, the more rapid expulsion of contractors and re-
award of contracts in the States of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu would have improved project
implementation.
5.13       Even though there were major delays, the implementation of the non-physical components
of the project, was generally more successful. The major items of equipment (one mobile bridge
inspection unit, four Driver training & evaluating systems and research equipment for use by the Central
Road Research Institute (CRRI) were all procured with some minor variations in the quantities, and are
being used successfully. The training/TA component of the project was fully implemented with over 70
engineers from MOST and the State PWDs undergoing training both in India and overseas. All of the
major studies (the Road Safety and Vehicle Fleet Modernization Study and the Road User Charges) were
completed again with some delays. In the case of the Road User Charge Study, the Second National
Highway Project includes TA to assist GOI in implementing the agreed action plan based on the results
of the study.



7
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
6.01       The project has failed to achieve the most important objective of the project which was "to
remove present traffic congestion through the construction/rehabilitation of selected links of the national
highway network". A comparison of actual and original implementation schedules shows that except for
works under one contract (relating to the Palar bridge in Tamil Nadu) none of the civil works was
completed by the original target dates as stipulated in the awarded contracts. Also, by December 31,
1992, the original closing date of the project, disbursements amounted to only 41 % (US$82 million) of
the estimated total of US$200 million. The approximate overall physical progress (as percentage of total
quantity of work completed) at loan closure by State was: Haryana 25 %; Punjab 76%; Tamil Nadu 83 %;
Uttar Pradesh 33%; West Bengal 32%; and Gujarat 46%.
6.02       In real terms, the Rupee costs of the partly completed physical works have actually
decreased during the life of the project. The total real financial cost for the project deflated by the
wholesale price index for the period was approximately Rs. 1300 which is substantially below what the
actual estimated financial progress should have been with a 50% percent completion of the physical
works. In nominal terms, the Rs. expenditure on civil works up to May 1994, was approximately Rs.
2500 million against the SAR of Rs. 5022 million (including contingencies) for the whole project. Taking
into consideration the physical progress of the civil works (around 50%), the financial progress in
nominal terms is roughly in line with the physical progress. In US Dollar terms the costs of the civil
works have also decreased in real terms during the life of the project. This primarily because the Rs. has
depreciated more during the life of the project than the inflation differential between India and the USA.
At loan approval (1985) the Rs./US Dollar exchange rate was 12 to 1 while at loan closure (12/93) it was
31 to 1.
6.03       The revised costs for the civil works (see Table 7) in nominal terms were higher than the
costs estimated in the SAR. The total revised costs of the civil works have been estimated by MOST to
be Rs. 6867 million against original estimate of Rs. 5022 million including contingencies. However, the
final figure given for the completion of the project should be treated with caution due to the fact the
project will not be completed for at least another 3 to 4 years, and if the Vadodara to Ahmedabad
Expressway is re-submitted to tender it would be completed at a much higher cost.
6.04       The objective of introducing modern contract management and construction techniques to
strengthen the implementation capabilities of the local contracting industry was only partly achieved.
Today, as a result of the project, the use of modern contract management and mechanized construction
techniques are more widely accepted. The greater use by MOST of consultants for project preparation
and supervision in the Second National Highway Project is another sign of a growing acceptance of
modern project management techniques. However, it must be stressed that there is still substantial
opposition to the wholesale adoption of modern project management and road construction techniques.
6.05       Another of the objectives of the project that was also partly achieved was to promote the
construction of roads that would meet international road construction standards. In Punjab, where one
of the few contract packages has been substantially completed, the quality of the work is good. However,
it is too early to evaluate the quality of work done on the other subprojects due to their non-completion.
In addition, the design and construction specifications used in the project although adequate, could have
been more flexibly adapted to exploit the capabilities for modern construction equipment.



8
6.06       Most of the institutional building and sector modernization objectives of the project have
been achieved even though their impact has been limited. All of the studies have been prepared and all
of the training components of the project have been completed. With some minor variations all of the
equipment under the project was procured and is being utilized. However, an important institutional
building objective of the project not met was the establishment of a Transport Coordination Committee
within MOST. According to the SAR the responsibilities of this Committee were "to study traffic flows
and demand and to frame appropriate inter-modal mix, fiscal and taxation policy, etc".
6.07       The project, through the modernization of road management and construction techniques has
had an impact on the sectors technological environment. However, the most significant impact of the
project, was that it provided many valuable lessons for the future preparation of projects in the subsector.
Many of the lessons learned from the NHI Project have been incorporated in the design of subsequent
projects in the road subsector. In addition, the overall implementation failure of the project helped expose
many of the weaknesses of the local road construction industry and of the MOST/State PWD agency
system.
6.08       Economic Evaluation: Firstly, the ERR and NPV for the project was recalculated following
as closely as possible the SAR economic evaluation methodology, projected costs, expected completion
dates, and traffic forecasts (see Annex I, scenario A). The results of the recalculated economic evaluation
following this approach has produced a higher ERR (36% vs. 26% forecasted in the SAR) and a lower
Net Present Value (NPV) (Rs. 40374 billion vs. Rs. 46324 billion forecasted in the SAR). The difference
in the recalculated results, can be attributed to the use of slightly different methodologies in the two
exercises. Different congestion coefficients and roughness indexes were used producing different results.
Also, it is not clear from the SAR which base year was used for the economic evaluation as compared
to the recalculated economic evaluation.
6.09       A second analysis (see Annex II, scenario B) was done using the same methodology as
above but using the actual traffic growth up to 1993, the likely completion dates of the subprojects and
the estimated final costs. Also, projected traffic growth from 1993 onwards was revised to take into
account up to date information on future traffic growth. The result of this second scenario which tried
as much as possible to use actual data on the project, produced a NPV of Rs. 26032 million and an ERR
of 29%. When compared to the results of the first SAR exercise there was a Rs. 14342 million (Rs.
26032 million vs. 40374 million) drop in the NPV and a 20% drop in the ERR (29% vs. 36%).
6.10       The principal reasons behind the lower NPVs and ERRs for the second scenario are the 3
to 5 year delay in the completion of the project, and higher than forecasted traffic growth for the 1985
to 1993 period. Therefore, the delay in the completion of the civil works was made even worse by higher
than forecasted growth of all modes of traffic in all of the subprojects with the sole exception of Tamil
Nadu. However, in real terms, project costs are expected to be slightly below what was forecasted in the
SAR. The main message of the reworked economic analysis is that the project delays and higher than
predicted traffic growth have cost the Indian economy Rs. 14,342 million or US$463 million in lost
benefits.



9
Box 1: Notes on Economic Evaluation
The methodology used in the recalculation of the ERR and NPV for the two exercises was the
same, in order to make the comparison of the results realistic. The same traffic diversion factor
(60%) for the two expressways was used, the same roughness indexes, vehicle operating costs
and traffic congestion coefficients (depending on traffic levels) were used. Also, the costs used
for kilometer of road constructed/rehabilitated were similar, and were based on the estimates
provided in the SAR. The major difference in the two exercises was the completion date used
for the subprojects. In the first scenario (scenario A) the implementation period for the civil work
components of the project was 5 years as per the SAR. For the second scenario (scenario B) the
estimated/actual completion dates for the subprojects was used and this ranged from 8 to 10
years. Another major difference in the two exercises was the traffic data used. In the first
exercise the traffic growth data used was based on the SAR for each subproject (which differed
with each subproject). The traffic data used in the second exercise were the actual traffic figures
between 1986 and 1993, and a revised estimate of 8% growth in traffic was used for the
subsequent period. The revised traffic growth estimate is slightly higher than the average used
in the SAR for all of the subprojects. The cost data for the subprojects used in the two exercises
are drawn from the US$ SAR cost estimates for the project. The SAR cost data figures were
used in both exercises, because despite the substantial Rs. inflation during the project life they
remain current.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01        At present the sustainability of the project as a whole cannot be properly determined due
to the non-completion of most of the civil work contracts. However, the sustainability of the components
that have been completed is good. All of the equipment procured under the project is being fully utilized.
A good example is the Mobile Bridge Inspection Unit which will be needed for many years to come to
inspect all of the old bridges in India.
7.02        The physical sustainability of the civil works component of the project is difficult to assess,
because with the exception of Tamil Nadu and Punjab (were some of the contracts have been substantially
completed) all of the other contract packages are far from completion. This is particularly true in the case
of Uttar Pradesh (bridge and bypass), West Bengal (two lane expressway), and Gujarat (four lane
expressway) were the work will not be completed for at least another three to four years. However,
taking into consideration the rapid increase (around 10% per year) of future traffic on the NH network
it will be more than likely that all of the links will attract more than sufficient traffic to justify their
economic costs. In some cases, like the Vadodara to Ahmedabad and the Durgapur Expressways, not only
will they reduce travelling distances, but they will also divert traffic away from highly congested NH
sections while at the same time generating revenues through tolls. If part of the funds generated by tolls
were to be used for maintenance purposes, this would ensure their sustainability. For the non tolled
sections of NH network being improved/constructed under the project, their non completion makes it too
early to determine the adequacy of funds allocated for maintenance.



10
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01       The project received adequate preparation resources from the Bank, with at least four
preparatory missions prior to appraisal in which the basic issues of procurement and contract size were
debated. In the design of the project efforts were made to address the major institutional and non-
institutional constraints of the subsector. The civil works components of the project were selected solely
on the basis of economic and network analysis criteria. The high growth of traffic (as forecasted in the
projections) vindicates the validity of the roads selected in the project. Furthermore, the Bank
aggressively used all of the means at its disposal (including the suspension of disbursements on certain
components) to try to improve the implementation of the project.
8.02       The project was adequately supervised by the Bank with an average of two to three
supervision missions a year. In 1990 at the height of the CCL/BB controversy a 21 staff week mission
was sent to India to attempt to get the project moving again.
8.03       The overestimation of the actual implementation capabilities of both local contractors and
GOI was the major weakness of the Bank's performance in the project. This led to the preparation of a
project which was probably too ambitious in scope and timing given the implementation capacities
available at the time in the country.
8.04       In addition, the weakness of the MOST/State PWD agency system in managing the project,
was not fully foreseen during project preparation, making the achievement of project objectives even less
likely.
IX. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01       The preparation of project components by the borrower was poor, particularly because of
inaccurate field surveys. As a result, there were delays resulting from redesign, revising contract
documents and bills of quantities, all providing grounds for claims by the contractors. In some cases,
redesign involved increases in quantities of work by as much as 20%. In many cases, land acquisition,
the removal of utilities and trees was not completed until many years after the start of the project.
9.02       The prequalification by the borrower of financially and technically weak contractors had a
negative effect on project implementation. Due to lax prequalification, in most of the subprojects poorly
performing contractors had to be expelled and contracts reawarded causing major delays in project
implementation.
9.03       The ill defined relationship between MOST and the State PWDs was not conducive to the
proper implementation of the project. Poor communications, slow decision making and the avoidance of
responsibility for decisions, were all negative characteristics of the agency system. Also, the high
turnover of key staff especially in the State PWD's further impeded the decision making capabilities of
the Borrower. The setting up of a Project Implementation Cell did improve the working relationship
between MOST and the State PWDs but it was too little too late.
9.04       The Borrower, has generally complied with all of the reporting requirements of the project
even though during the life of the project there were some delays in submission of audit reports to the



11
Bank. All of the legal covenants of the project have been met by the Borrower and only one is
outstanding due to the non-completion of the civil works.
X. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.01      The Bank's relationship with the implementing agency MOST was good with a high degree
of communication between the two parties. However, even though the Bank had a well defined
counterpart in MOST, the actual implementation of the project was the responsibility of the State PWDs.
The relationship between the Bank and the State PWDs was limited due to the institutional arrangement
that the Bank should deal primarily with MOST. The relationship between MOST and the State PWDs
one of the key elements for the successful execution of the project, was inadequate with limited
cooperation and communication between the two parties. This was one of the major causes of
implementation delays in the project.
XI. CONSULTING AND CONTRACTING SERVICES
11.01      Consultants with international experience were not used in project preparation and
supervision by the Borrower. Most of the preparation of the project was done in house by the State
PWD's with mixed results at best. For all future projects in the road subsector, extensive use is being
made of consultants to improve project identification, preparation and supervision.
11.02      The poor performance of the local road construction industry was one of the major causes
of the poor implementation record of the project. The industry simply did not have the machinery,
management skills, trained personnel, and financial resources to properly execute the works. Also the
failure of the CCL/BB and Byford/Ragi joint veniures caused severe delays in the implementation
schedules in three of the six project states.
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION DATA
12.01      The SAR was well prepared and comprehensive in the information it contained on the
project. The project description and objectives were also very clear, and they provided a very good
framework to follow for both the Bank and the Borrower in the implementation of the project.
12.02      Most of the relevant data needed to prepare the PCR was available in the project files and
elsewhere with the exception of the supporting documentation used to prepare the economic evaluation.
The Borrower has supplied large quantities of information on the project in the form of quarterly reports.
But since quantity rather than quality seems to have been the overriding criteria in the preparation of the
quarterly reports they were little use to the Bank. For future projects it is important to specify both the
quality and the quantity of the information that the Bank requires for the monitoring of the project.



12
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.01       After a gap of more than two decades, Government of India (GOI) agreed for loan assistance
in the road sector from the World Bank (Bank) with the objectives of i) modernization of road network;
ii) technology upgradation by using mechanized construction and suitable specification for heavily
trafficked roads; iii) technology transfer from advanced countries in respect of design and construction
of roads and bridges; and iv) growth of domestic contracting industry. Accordingly, as per agreement,
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure, large size package compared to the prevalent sizes
and prequalification of contractors before bidding have to followed for implementation design and
implementation of the project.
1.02       The above mentioned requirements were not in tune with the then practices of the Ministry
of Surface Transport (MOST). At that time due to socio-economic demand, construction of roads
including the National Highways was considered to be a source of employment generation. But with the
overall economic development in the country and shift of both freight and passenger traffic from railways,
the traffic by the road is rising rapidly. Due to consequent stresses and strains on the capacity of the
roads, and with the realization of concept of the total transport cost and the resulting benefits towards the
society,the Govt. of India also accepted the need for the modernization of the roads using mechanized
construction instead of labor based technology in respect of high traffic volume roads.
1.03  The engineering investigations, designs and cost estimation for road projects were done by the
respective State Public Works Departments as per the prevailing system(PWDs). The requirement of
consultants for designing highway projects was not felt necessary until this project was initiated. Though
there were competent consultants for design of bridges, but there were not many domestic consultants
reputed for major road projects.
1.04 It may be mentioned that for the design of the new road in the Calcutta-Palsit road as two lane at
grade road were based on certain assumptions. But considering that land was already available, and the
length of the proposed route was shorter than that of the existing route and the growth of traffic was
considerable, an access controlled expressway would have been appropriate solution. This is reinforced
by the recent study conducted on the expressway network in the country. The conversion of this road,
at present stage, to an access controlled road would require a considerable investment.
11. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
2.01       For implementation of the project, it was decided that the package sizes for different
contracts for this project would be ranging from Rs.60 million to about Rs.200 million. This was large
enough compared to the then practices. Prequalification of contractors for highway projects was done
for the first time in the country. The criteria finalized and concurred by the Bank, were not sufficient
enough to anticipate the problems of subcontracting, joint-venture, past experience and financial resources
of the contractors. This led to poor performance by the contractors who were prequalified on these
agreed criteria.



13
2.02       One of the objectives of this project was technology transfer through participation of the
foreign contractors. Response of the foreign contractors was not encouraging. Only three foreign
contractors participated in the form of joint venture. Out of these, two contractors backed out from the
project. This led to several problems causing considerable delay in completion of the projects.
2.03       As per agreement, to follow ICB procedure for award of civil works, FIDIC conditions were
made applicable for implementation of the prcject. Before this project, these conditions were not used
in execution of the highway projects in the country. Niost of the officials of the State PWDs, who
supervise the works of National Highway Projects, were conversant only with their usual PWD contract
documents. They were exposed to new FIDIC conditions of contract for the first time. Many of them
found difficulties in taking decisions at the appropriate time as they were not sure of the consequence of
the decisions. MOST's officers were also not experienced to tackle and resolve the bottlenecks and
decisions got delayed in some cases even at the MOST level. This also contributed to delays in the
project implementation.
2.04       The progress of various subprojects was also badly hampered due to litigation, at the time
of re-award of works after expulsion of the non performing contractors and to some extent at the time
of initial award.
2.05       The disbursement to the project could have been increased if the Bank were reasonable to
accept inclusion of few other contracts viz. five road packages of Durgapur Expressway Project while
extending the closing date of the loan.
2.06       Experience in implementing the project indicated that both the Bank and GOI were over
ambitious and have not considered the ground realities while designing the project and setting the target
of implementation of the project.
III. PERFORMANCE BY THE BORROWER
3.01       The objectives of this project were (i) to foster institutional development; (ii) to develop the
domestic contracting industry; and (iii) to reduce the present traffic congestion through selected road
investments.
3.02       The performance of the borrower, notwithstanding the shortfall in disbursement is
considered to be satisfactory in achieving the above mentioned objectives.
3.03       This project can be considered to be a beginning of the modernization of the road network
of the country. This project afforded a unique opportunity for evolving of design and specifications for
roads to suit the mechanized construction methodology for large size projects. This process got initiated
with this project and is being further updated with the advancement of technology. Completion of the
Road Users Cost Study undertaken as part of this project has strengthened the tool of economic analysis
of road projects. Completion of the study on Vehicle Fleet Modernization and Road User Charges within
the stipulated period has opened up many areas in the road transport sector. Subsequent follow-up actions
are being taken up in implementation of the agreed decisions of the study.



14
3.04        Training under this project has helped our engineers to equip themselves with the latest
practices and techniques in planning, design and construction of highways.
3.05        At the time of start of this project, there were very few local capable contractors for road
works. Initially, mainly parastatal firms responded for these works. Presently, many other local capable
contractors have come up and are executing the works with much better quality control. Site management
and utilization of machinery have, however, still to improve. This project has set the pace.
3.06        It is admitted there have been serious delays in completion of the augmentation of the
facilities which are required to reduce the congestion on heavily trafficked roads. Nevertheless, within
the loan closing dates i.e by 31st December, 1993, new facilities in about 203 kms of roads in aggregate
have been opened to traffic (Haryana 25 km, Punjab 85 km and Tamil Nadu 93 kin). All these projects,
as per present assessment, are likely to be completed by end 1997.
3.07        The best available consultants were appointed for the preparation of project details in respect
of four projects. Due to the limited expertise of highway engineering available at that time there have
been discrepancies in the detailed engineering in some projects. However, these difficulties were
overcome quickly and this factor did not affect the speedy execution of the project.
3.08        Due to the poor performance of the prequalified contractors, contractors have had to be
expelled from 12 contract packages. Re-award and start of the work got delayed due to finalization of
the procurement method, in consultation with the Bank and also litigation by the expelled contractors.
3.09        This project has helped in identification of the associated problems for implementation of
the road modernization projects. During the implementation, GOI has not lagged behind to take
necessary corrective steps for speedy implementation of the project. These actions are streamlining of
equipment import procedure, fast track clearances for re-award of work, providing additional advances
to the contractors and rescheduling the recovery of the mobilization advances within the ambit of contract
conditions and keeping in view of financial discipline, setting up of PIC, regular meeting at the highest
level to monitor the project. These actions have also helped in increasing the pace of progress of works.
3.10        Most of the identified deficiencies in prequalification criteria, in contract documents, in
implementation of the projects are being taken care of in the future projects funded by external agencies.
3.11        Delay in acquisition of land and clearance of the site had impeded the progress of the works
in a few projects. However, MOST took appropriate actions during construction stage to get the site of
works free of encumbrances. This aspect is now being taken care of in the planning stage itself by
preparing strip plans and identifying the problematic stretches. Actions are taken for acquisition of land
and shifting of utilities while processing projects for various clearances so that site of works without any
obstructions can be handed over to the contractor at the time of start of work. It has also now been made
mandatory not to start bidding process unless the site of works, free of encumbrances, are available.
3.12        This project has revealed inadequacies and weaknesses in the system of supervision of civil
works and taking decisions at appropriate time for smooth implementation of the project. to address this
issue, consultants are now being appointed in the externally aided road projects, for supervision of works.
Presently, Superintending Engineer of the concerned PWD is working as "Engineer" as per contract
conditions for Asian Development Bank (ADB) assisted project. However, consultants have been



15
appointed to assist and advise the Engineer in maintaining the quality of the works and in supervision of
works.  In Second NH Projects of the World Bank, consultants would be appointed to work as
"Engineer". It is expected that these measure would help to maintain the quality of works and in timely
completion of the project.
3.13       There have also been delays in taking decisions for contract management due to movement
between the Central and concerned State Government inherent in the agency system.  An Apex
Management Committee has been set up at the central level with the representatives of the concerned
Ministries of the Central Government and the State Governments to taking debottlenecking initiatives.
This Committee has already started functioning and is proving useful in expediting decisions on
contentious issues.
3.14       It was intended to foster institutional development, adoption of new technology and change
in method of construction by implementation of this project. It was perhaps impractical to expect the new
concepts, ideas and change over to new technology being achieved within the life of one project.
IV. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
4.01       MOST values the guidance and support it received from the World Bank professionals in
identifying the project section and in designing the project. The interaction with Bank and various
Supervision Missions were useful in initiating measures to take various corrective actions for speedy
implementation of the project. These exercises undertaken by the Ministry in collaboration with the Bank
were reflected in the various Aide-Memories of the Supervision Mission of the Bank.
4.02       Proposal of two lane at grade new road in the so called Durgapur Expressway as was
designed and justified by economic analysis by using HDM carried out at the Bank is found to be a short
sighted decision. It would have been better to proceed with the project as a real expressway. With this
new two lane road, the construction of modern access control expressway has to be deferred due to
requirement of large scale investment for its conversion.
4.03       Two foreign contractors namely M/s Balfour Beatty and M/s Ragi withdrew from the project
without any apparent reason. This had jeopardized two projects, and delayed one project. Bank
remained silent spectator on these happenings. It is not known whether Bank's working system permits
for taking any action against these two contractors for the Bank financed projects in other countries. The
Bank also do not seem to have made efforts to find as to why the foreign partners backed out of these
contracts.
4.04       It has now become evident that while designing the project Ministry and the Bank adopted
quite a few over ambitious targets and time frames without keeping in mind the realities in the field.
Setting up the criteria for prequalification of contractors, finalization of the contract documents, fixation
of the package sizes were not done keeping in view the existing status of the road construction practices
and contracting industry.



16
4.05       After the break-up of CCL/BB joint ventures, Bank did not take consistent stand. Initially,
it recommended for expulsion of CC from Gujarat project and had tacit approval of retention of CC in
Haryana Project with the technical assistance of foreign contractor. Then, the Bank recommended for
expulsion of CC from both the projects. Later on the Bank agreed with the CCL's retention in the
project subject to certain conditions being met. These were the need of CCL to obtain equivalent
expertise namely Kier International and firm's willingness to participate fully by posting performance
bond and supervision of works by an International Consultant. MOST took all necessary actions as per
requirement and in consultation with the Bank. Nevertheless, Bank suddenly withdrew nine contracts from
the project and canceled the equivalent portion of the loan contributing to excessive delays in two
projects.
4.06       On the extension of the closing date of the loan the Bank initially, informed that they would
consider extension of only few contracts which have no contractual and other problems and that can be
completed in reasonable time. Later on, Bank also agreed to extend the closing date of the loan for
additional satisfactorily performing contracts. But while drawing up the list of performing contracts.
some of the contracts including one which was approved by the Bank at that time were overlooked.
Performance of these contracts was found to be more satisfactory than other contracts which were
considered by the Bank as satisfactory. If five contracts of Durgapur Expressway Project were included
in the project, the disbursement would have increased by about US$ 3.8 million.
4.07       MOST appreciates the Bank's consideration and agreement in increasing the percentage of
disbursement from 46% to 80% and finally to 90%. This resulted in increased disbursements.
V. RELATIONSHIP WITH THE BANK
5.01       The relationship of the Ministry with the Bank dates to the early '60s. Due to the policies
of the GOI, there was no lending for about two decades. With the start of the First NH Project, both
the Bank and GOI have renewed their interest in the road sub-sector.
5.02       MOST values the support it received from the Bank in identifying the project sections for
improvement of the congested NH corridors, design of projects, monitoring and evaluation of ongoing
activities and in initiating institutional reviews.
5.03       MOST would like to place on record its appreciation of professional interaction with the
Bank. MOST would look forward for further collaboration with the Bank in development of NH network
in the country.



17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: Proiect Data
RVP Unit                                         South Asia 2
Sector                                           Transport
Subsector                                        Highways
Borrower                                         Government of India
Executing Agency                                 Ministry of Surface Transport
Fiscal Year of Borrower                          April 1 to March 31
TABLE 2: Proiect Timetable
Original Plan          Actual or Re-estimated
Reference from DEA (GOI)
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal
Negotiations                              4/85                         4/85
Board Approval                            5/85                          5/85
Loan Agreement Date                       9/85                          9/95
Effectiveness Date                        11/85                        11/85
Project Completion Date                   6/92                         12/93
Closing Date                              12/92                         3/94



18
TABLE 3: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Title                         Purpose                 Year         Status           Comments
Approved
Bihar Rural Roads            Construction of rural         1980       Completed in
Project                      roads                                    FY 87
Gujarat Rural Roads          Construction of rural         1987       Active         US$22.85 million
roads                                                   was cancelled due
to forex fluctuations
and components were
added.
States' Road Project         Upgradation of State          1988      Active          US$55 million was
Highways                                                cancelled from project.
Second National Highway      Upgradation/Fourlaning of     1992       Active
Project                      National Highways
TABLE 4: Proiect Finances
Item                         Original Expectation          Actual or Re-estimated
Loan Amount (US $million)                200.0                         200.0
Disbursed (US $million) {3/94}           200.0                          103.4
Cancelled (US $million) {6/94}           Nil                            96.6
Repaid (US $million) {3194}              Nil                            Nil
Outstanding (US $million) {3/94}         200.0                         101.6
Total Project Costs (US$million)         424.8                         250.5



19
TABLE 5: Expected and Actual Implementation
Project Component                                      Expected Implementation    Actual Implementation
Start          End          Start          End
Construction of Ahmedabad-Vadodra Expressway -         3/86            6/92          3/87          12/98
Gujarat
Construction of a second carriageway on NHI in         9/86            6/91          3/87           12/95
Haryana
Construction of a second carriageway on NHI in Punjab  3/86            12/90         3/87           9/94
Fourlaning/strengthening of NH 45 in Tamil Nadu        6/86            12/90         3/87 &        12/94
10/89
Construction of Varanasi Bypass & Ganga Bridge in      6/86            12/91         10/87 &        12/98
Uttar Pradesh                                                                        6/88
Construction of new two lane highway (NH 2) in West    9/86            6/90          9/87          12/96
Bengal
Procurement of specialized equipment                   6/86            6/88          6/87          12/93
Technical Assistance (Staff Training)                  6/86            6/91          6/87           12/93
Vehicle Fleet Modernization Study                      3/86            12/86         3/88           3/89
TABLE 6: Exnected and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
(US $Million)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Estimated           8.0     39.4    96.8    148.0   168.9   189.8   200.0   200.0   200.0
Actual              Nil      Nil    23.6    37.9    48.1    64.3    80.5    93.4   101.6
Actual/Estimate     Nil      Nil    24        26      28      33       40      47       51
(percentage)



20
TABLE 7: Expected and Actual Cost and Expenditures
Appraisal Cost Estimate                     Revised            Actual Expenditures
Completion Cost
(Rs. million)                (US$million)          (Rs. million)    (Rs. million)   (US$million)
Item         Local    Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign    Total        Total           Total          Total
Civil Works      2607.8    997.8    3605.6    217.3       83.1    300.4            6867.0        3316.5          101.3
Equipment           2.8     43.2       46.0      0.2       3.6      3.8              54.2          54.2            1.3
Training            -        21.4      21.4       -        1.8      1.8              16.9          16.9}
Consult Services    0.7       6.5       7.2      0.1       0.5      0.6               7.5           7.5}           (.8
Contingencies     997.5    419.7    1417.2      83.1      35.0    118.1                             -              -
TOTALS           3608.8   1488.6    5097.4    300.7    124.0    424.7              6945.6        3395.1          103.4
TABLE 8: Economic Imract
Appraisal                     *Projected ERR                   **Projected ERR
Sub-Proiects                            Estimate (ERR)                     (Scenario A)                      (Scenario B)
Gujarat                                       21%                               35%                              26%
West Bengal                                   25%                               37%                              29%
Haryana                                       37%                              44%                               33%
Uttar Pradesh                                 19%                               16%                              13%
Punjab                                        26%                              45%                               37%
Tamil Nadu
A)                                    23%                               17%                               15%
B)                                     31%                              36%                               28%
Project Total                                 26%                              36%                               29%
* Recalculated ERR (Scenario A, see annex I)following as close as possible SAR economic evaluation.
** Recalculated ERR (Scenario B, see annex I) using actual traffic, projected actual completion dates and projected actual costs.



21
TABLE 9: Field Mission Data Yearwise
Activity Item                       Month/Year      No. of Persons   No. of Weeks    Staff Weeks       Report Date
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision
I                                10/85               1                1                 1             11/85
II                                3/86               2                4                 8              4/86
III                               9/86               3                3                 9             10/86
IV                                2/87               3                3                 9              2/87
V                                10/87               3                1                 3             11/87
VI                                6/88               3                4                12              7/88
VIl                               7/88               1                1                 1              8/88
VIII                             12/88               2                5                10             12/88
IX                                3/89               3                1                 3              3/89
X                                 6/89               3                2                 6              7/89
Xi                               10/89               4                3                12             11/89
XII                               2/90               3                3                 9              3/90
XIII                              5/90               7                3                21              6/90
XIV                              12/90               3                3                 9              1/91
XV                                3/91               4                3                12              4/91
XVI                              10/91               5                2                10              2/92
XVII                              2/92               3                4                12              6/92
XVIII                             7/92               4                3                12              8/92
XIX                               9/92               2                2                 4             10/92
XX                                2/93               4                2                 8              4/93
XXI                               7/93               5                2                10              8/93
XXII                             11/93               3                1                 3              2/94
Sub Total
Completion                            5/94                3               2                 6              5/94
GRAND TOTAL (Staff Weeks)                                                                  190



India - Tamil Nadu
NH45 - Tamil Nadu
Scenario I A
Economic Evaluation and Senmitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits (M Rsl                                         Sensitivity Analyis
Capital   Maintenance      Normal     Generated      Diverted      Total      20% Incr.    20% Decr.      Combined
Costs         Costs        Traffic       Traffic      Traffic                  Cost (a)       Bnft (b)     la) & (b)
Year
With the Project         |  1987  f       -154.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -154.00 |       -184.80      -154.00       -184.80
X             I  1988 I        -154.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -154.00 I       -184.80       -154.00      -184.80
Without the Project         1989         -154.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -154.00 |       -184.80      -154.00       -184.80
1990 j       -154,00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -154.00         -184.80       -154.00      -184.80
1991 I       -154.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -154.00 I       -184.80       -154.00      -184.80
1992 I          0.00        -0.80        534.05         0.00          0.00     533.45          533.33       426.64        426.52
1993 I          0.00        -0.60        550.07         0.00          0.00     549.47 j        549.35       439.46        439.34
1994 I          0.00        -0.60        588.57         0.00          0.00     565.97 I        565.85       452.66        452.54
1995            0.00        -0.60        583.57         0.00          0.00     582.97          582.85       466.26        466.14
1996 I          0.00        -0.60        601.08         0.00          0.00     600.48          600.36       480.26        480.14
1997 I          0.00        -0.60        619.11         0.00          0.00     618.51 I        618.39       494.69        494.57
1998  J         0.00        -0.60        637.68         0.00          0.00     637.08          636.96       509.55        509.43
1999  j         0.00        -0.60        656.81         0.00          0.00     858.21 I        656.09        524.85       524.73
2000 I          0.00        -0.60        676.52          0.00         0.00     675.92 I        675.80        540.61       540.49
2001         -124.00         -0.60       696.81         0.00          0.00      572.21         547.29        432.85       407.93
2002 I          0.00        -0.60        717.72         0.00          0.00      717.12 I       717.00        573.57       573.45
2003 I          0.00        -0.60        739.25          0.00         0.00      738.65 I       738.53        590.80       590.68
2004 I          0.00        -0.60        761.43         0.00          0.00      760.83 I       760.71        608.54       608.42
2005 I          0.00        -0.60        784.27         0.00          0.00      783.87 I       783.55        626.81       626.69
I  2006 I         77.00         -0.60       807.80          0.00          0.00     884.20         899.48        722.64       737.92
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     36.3%           32.6%        31.8%         28.3%
Net Present Value at   12%               -638.18         -2.60      2697.70          0.00          0.00    2056.92        1928.76       1517.38       1389.22
o A
0
NH45_1 A.WK 1 06/21/94



India - Tamil Nadu
NH45 - Tamil Nadu
Scenario 2A
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits tM Rs)                                     Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance    Normal    Generated     Diverted      Total     20% Incr.   20% Decr.    Combined
Costs        Costs       Traffic      Traffic      Traffic                 Costs (a)    Bnft tb)    (a) & tb)
Year
WiththeProject         I  1987 |       -180.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -180.00 I      -216.00      -180.00      -216.00
X            I  1988        -180.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -180.00 I      -216.00      -180.00      -216.00
WithouttheProject      |  1989        -180.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -180.00 I      -216.00      -180.00      -216.00
1990       -180.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -180.00 I      -216.00      -180.00      -216.00
199881      -180.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -180.00 I      -216.00      -180.00      -216.00
1992          0.00         -1.40      208.15         0.00        0.00     206.75 I       206.47      165.12       164.84
1993          0.00         -1.40      216.48         0.00        0.00     215.08 I       214.80      171.78       171.50
1994 j        0.00         -1.40      225.13         0.00        0.00     223.73 I       223.45      178.71       178.43
1995 I        0.00         -1.40      234.14         0.00        0.00     232.74 I       232.46      185.91       185.63
1996 I        0.00         -1.40      243.51         0.00        0.00     242.11 I       241.83      193.40       193.12
1997          0.00         -1.40      253.25         0.00        0.00     251.85 I       251.57      201.20       200.92
1998 I        0.00         -1.40      263.38         0.00        0.00     261.98 I       261.70      209.30       209.02
1999 I        0.00         -1.40      273.91         0.00        0.00     272.51 I       272.23      217.73       217.45
2000          0.00         -1.40      284.87         0.00         0.00    283.47 I       283.19      226.49       226.21
2001        -144.00        -1.40      296.26         0.00         0.00    150.86 I       121.78       91.61        62.53
2002          0.00         -1.40      308.11         0.00         0.00    306.71 I       306.43      245.09       244.81
2003          0.00         -1.40      320.44         0.00         0.00    319.04 I       318.76      254.95       254.67
2004          0.00         -1.40      333.25         0.00         0.00    331,85 1       331.57      265.20       264.92
2005 I        0.00         -1.40      346.58         0.00         0.00    345.18         344.90      275.87       275.59
I  2006 I       90.00         -1.40      360.45         0.00         0.00    449.05         466.77      376.96       394.68
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                              17.4%          14.8%       14.2%        11.8%
Net Present Value at  12%             -745.74        -6.06      1109.48        0.00         0.00     357.68        207.32       135.79       -14.57
GQ M
CD XD
x
t'
N-1
0
NH45_2A.WK1 06/21/94



India - Uttar Pradesh
Varanasi Bypans/Bridge
Scenario A
Economic EvJauation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits (M Rs)                                     Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance    Normal    Generated     Diverted      Total      20% Incr.   20% Dec,.    Combined
Costs        Costs       Traffic      Traffic      Traffic                 Costs la)    Bnft lb)    (al & lb)
Year
With the Project       I  1987         -280.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -280.00       -336.00      -280.00      -336.00
X            I  1988 I       -280.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -280.00       -336.00      -280.00      -336.00
Without the Project    I  1989 I       -280.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -280.00 j     -336.00      -280.00      -336.00
1990 I      -280.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -280.00 I     -336.00      -280.00      -336.00
1991        -280.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -280.00 I     -336.00      -280.00      -336.00
1992           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       227.96    227.46         227.36       181.87      181.77
1993           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       246.19    245.69         245.59       196.45      196.35
1994 I         0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       265.89    265.39         265.29       212.21      212.11
1995 I         0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       287.16    286.66         286.56       229.23      229.13
1996 j         0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       310.13    309.63         309.53       247.61      247.51
1997 I         0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       334.94    334.44         334.34       267.45      267.35
1998           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       361.74    361.24         361.14       288.89      288.79
1999           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       390.68    390.18         390.08       312.04      311.94
2000           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       421.93    421.43         421.33       337.05      336.95                                       N'
2001 .       -46.50        -0.50        0.00         0.00       455.69    408.69         399.29       317.55      306.15
2002           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       492.14    491.64         491.54       393.21      393.11
2003           0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       531.51     531.01        530.91       424.71      424.61
2004 I         0,00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       574.03     573.53        573.43       458.73      458.63
2005 I         0.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       619.96    619.46         619.36       495.46      495.36
I 2006          140.00        -0.50        0.00         0.00       669.55    809.05         836.95       675.14      703.04
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                              1 5.7 %        13.4%        12.9 %      1 0.8 %
Net Present Value at  12%             -1123.72        -2.16        0.00         0.00      1522.79    396.91         171.74        92.35      -132.82
NHV A.WK1 06/21/94



India - Punlab
NH1 Punjab
Scenario A
Economic Evaluation and Sensitvity Analysis
Net Evonomic Benefits tM RsI                                       Sensitivity Analysis
Captal   Maintenance      Normal     Generated     Diverted      Total      20% Incr.    20% Decr.    Combined
Costs        Costs        Traffic      Traffic       Traffic                 Costs (al     Bnft tbl    (a) & tbl
Year
With the Project           1987         -465.00         0.00         0 00         0.00         0.00    -46500  j       -558.00     -465.00       -558.00
X                1988         -465.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -465.00 !      -558.00      -465.00      -558.00
Without the Project        1969         -465 00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -465.00  j      -558.00     -465 00       -558.00
1990        -465.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00  j     -558 00      -465.00      -558.00
1991        -465.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00        -558.00      -465.00      -558.00
1992           0 00        -1.90      2045.34         0.00          0.00    2043.44 p     2043.06       1634.37      1633.99
1993           0.00        -1.90      2311 24         0.00          0.00    2309.34       2308.96       1847.09      1846.71
1994           0.00        -1.90      2496.14         0.00          0.00    2494.24 I     2493.86       1995 01      1994.63
1995           0.00        -1.90      2695 83         0.00          0.00    2693.93       2693.55       2154.76      2154.38
1996           0.00        -1.90      2911.49         0.00          0.00    2909.59       2909.21       2327.29      2326.91
1997           0.00        -1.90      3144.41         0.00          0.00    3142.51  [    3142.13       2513.63      2513.25
1998           0.00        -1.90      3395.97         0.00          0.00    3394.07       3393.69       2714.87      2714.49
1999           0.00        -1.90      3667.64         0.00          0.00    3665.74 I     3665.36       2932.21      2931.83
2000           0.00        -1.90      3961.05         0.00          0.00    3959.15        3958.77      3166.94      3166.56
2001  1     -375.00        -1.90      4277.94         0.00          0.00    3901.04        3825.66      3045.45      2970.07
2002           0.00        -1.90      4620.17         0.00          0.00    461 8.27      461 7.89      3694.24      3693.86
2003           0 00        -1.90      4989.79         0.00          0.00    4987.89        4987.51      3989.93      3989.55
2004           0.00        -1.90      5388.97         0.00          0.00    5387.07        5386.689     4309.28      4308.90
2005           0.00        -1.90      5820.09         0.00          000    5818.19 I       5817.81      4654.17      4653.79
2006         233 00        -1.90      6285.70         0.00          0.00    651 6.80       6563.02      5259.66      5305.88
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                 45.2%          41.2%        40.3%         36.6%
Net Prent Value at    12%              -1927.05        -8.22     14242.11         0.00         0.00   12306.84       11919.79      9458.42      9071.37                               >
NH1P AWK1 06/21/94



India - Haryana
NH1 - Haryana
Scenario A
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analys.s
Net Economic Benefits (M Rs)                                         Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance     Normal      Generated      Diverted      Total      20% Incr.    20% Decr.      Combined
Costs         Costs        Traffhc       Traffic      Traffic                  Costs (a)      Bnft (bl     (a) & (b)
Year
With the Project            1987         -273.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -273.00         -327.60      -273.00       -327.60
X                 1988         -273.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00    -273.00         -327.60      -273.00       -327.60
Without the Project         1989  j       273.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -273.00  |      -327.60      -273.00       -327.60
1990        -273.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -273.00         -327.60       -273.00      -327.60
1991  j      -273.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -273.00         -327.60      -273.00       -327.60
1992            0.00        -1.20       1167.26         0.00          0.00    1166.06 I       1165.82       932.61        932.37
1993            0.00         -1.20      1260.64         0.00          0.00    1259.44         1 259.20     1007.31       1007.07
1994            0.00        -1.20       1361.49         0.00          0.00    1360.29  j      1360.05      1087,99       1087.75
1995            0.00        -1.20       1470.41         0.00          0.00    1469.21  .      1468.97      1175.13       1174.89
1996            0.00        -1.20       1588.04         0.00          0.00    1586.84 I       1586.60      1269.23       1268.99
1997            0.00        -1.20       1715.08         0.00          0.00    1713.88         1 713.64     1370.87       1370.63
1998 -          0.00        -1.20       1852.29         0.00          0.00    1851.09         1 850.85     1480.63       1480.39
1999            0.00        -1.20      2000.47          0.00          0.00    1999.27         1999.03      1599.18       1598.94
2000  1         0.00         -1.20      2160.51          0.00         0.00    2159.31         2159.07      1727.21       1726.97                                         t>4
2001         -250.00         -1.20      2333.35          0.00         0.00    2082.15         2031.91       1615.48      1565.24
2002            0.00         -1.20     2520.02           0.00         0.00    2518.82         2518.58      2014.82       2014.58
2003            0.00         -1.20      2721.62          0.00         0.00    2720.42 I       2720.18      2176.10       2175.86
2004            0.00         -1.20      2939.35          0.00         0.00    2938.15         2937.91      2350.28       2350.04
2005            0.00         -1.20      3174.50          0.00         0.00    3173.30         3173.06      2538.40       2538.16
2006  !       137.00         -1.20      3428.46          0.00         0.00    3564.26         3591.42      2878.57       2905.73
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     43.8%           39.9%        39.0%         35.3%
Net Present Value at   12%              -1137.44         -5.19      7797.51          0.00          0.00    6654.87        6426.34       5095.37       4866.84                              0) 0
M DW
N
NH1H_AWKl 06/21/94



India - West Bengal
Durgapur Expressway
Scenario A
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits IM Rs)                                     Sensitivty Analysis
Capital   Maintenance    Normal    Generated      Diverted     Total      20% Incr.   20% Decr.    Combined
Costs        Costs        Traffic     Traffic      Traffic                 Costs (a)    Bnft ib)    ia) & ib)
Year
With the Project          1987 I       -300.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -300.00 I      -360.00      -300.00      -360.00
X            I  1988 I       -300.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -300.00 I      -360.00      -300.00      -360.00
Without the Project    I  1989 I       -300.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00    -300.00 I      -360.00      -300.00      -360.00
1990 I      -300.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -300.00 I     -360.00      -300.00      -360.00
1991 I      -300.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00    -300.00 I     -360.00      -300.00      -360.00
1992 I        0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      912.77     911.67 I       911.45       729.12      728.90
1993          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      985.79     984.69 I       984.47       787.53      787.31
1994          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      1064.66    1063.56 I     1063.34       850.62      850.40
1995          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      1149.83    1148.73 I     1148.51       918.76      918.54
1996          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      1241.81    1240.71       1240.49       992.35      992.13
1997          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      1341.16    1340.06 [     1339.84      1071.83     1071.61
1998          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      1448.45    1447.35       1447.13      1157.66     1157.44
1999          0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      1564.33    1563.23       1563.01      1250.36     1250.14
2000           0.00        -1.10        0.00         0.00      1689.47    1688.37       1688.15      1350.48     1350.26
2001        -100.00        -1.10        0.00         0.00      1824.63    1723.53       1703.31      1358.61      1338.39                                     -J
2002           0.00        -1.10        0.00         0.00      1970.60    1969.50       1969.28      1575.38     1575.16
2003 I        0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      2128.25    2127.15       2126.93      1701.50     1701.28
2004 I        0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00      2298.51    2297.41 [     2297.19      1837.71     1837.49
2005 I        0.00         -1.10        0.00         0.00     2482.39    2481.29        2481.07      1984.81     1984.59
I  2006 I       150.00        -1.10        0.00         0.00      2680.98    2829.88       2859.66      2293.69     2323.47
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                              36.7%          33.2%       32.4%        29.2%
Net Present Value at  12%            -1214.25        -4.76         0.00        0.00      6097.48    4878.47       4634.67      3658.97      3415.17                           P 
x
I-.
0
NE2_A.WK1 06/21/94



India - Gujarat
Vadodara to Ahmedabad Expressway
Scenario A
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits tM Rs)                                             Sensitivity Analysis
-- - - -- - -  -     -- -   -  -   ---   -.- -.- --..- --- --.   ..... . .. .. ...... ....  -- - - -- - - -   -- - - - - - -   -- -- -   -- - - -- - -  -- -- -   -- -- - -- - -- - -- -  ------- ------- ------
Capital   Maintenance       Normal      Generated       Diverted       Total       20% Incr.    20% Dec,.       Combined
Costs          Costs         Traffic       Traffic        Traffic                   Costs (a)       Bnft lb)     (a) & (b)
Yea.
With the Project              1987          -930.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00      -930.00        -1116.00       -930.00       -1116.00
X                  1988         -930.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00     -930.00        .-1116.00       -930.00      -111600
Without the Project           1989          -930.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00      -930.00        -1116.00       -930.00       -1116.00
1990         -930.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00     -930.00        -1116.00        -930.00      -1116.00
1991  I      -930.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00     -930.00        -1116.00        -930.00      -1116.00
1992  I         0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       2617.80    2616.30  ,       2616.00        2092.74       2092.44
1993  I         0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       2827.23    2825.73          2825.43       2260.28        2259.98
1994  I         0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       3053.41     3051.91         3051.61       2441.23        2440.93
1995 I          0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       3297.68     3296.18         3295.88       2636.64        2636.34
1996            0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       3561.49     3559.99  I      3559.69       2847.70        2847.40
1997            0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       3846.41     3844.91  I      3844.61       3075.63        3075.33
1998            0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       4154.13     4152.63  [      4152.33       3321.80        3321.50
1999            0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       4486.46     4484.96         4484.66       3587.67        3587.37
2000            0 0.00        -1.50          0.00           0.00       4845.37     4843.87         4843.57        3874.80       3874.50
2001  I       -285.00         -1.50          0.00           0.00       5233.00     4946.50         4889.20        3899.90       3842.60                                             00
2002  I         0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       5651.64     5650.14  1      5649.84        4519.81       4519.51
2003  I         0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       6103.78     6102.28  i      6101.98        4881.52       4881.22
2004            0.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       6592.08     6590.58         6590.28        5272.16       5271.86
2005             0.00         -1.50          0.00           0.00       7119,44     7117.94         7117.64        5694.05       5693.75
2006          465.00          -1.50          0.00           0.00       7689.00    8152.50          8245.20       661 4.70       6707.40
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                           35.2%            31.8%         31.0%         27.9%
Net Present Value at     1 2%              -3759.06         -6.49          0.00           0.00      17487.44   13721.89         12968.78       10224.40       9471.29                                  :  D
0
NET1 _A.WKI 06121/94



India - Tamil Nadu
NH45 - Tamil Nadu
Scenario 1 8
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits (M Rs)                                          Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance      Normal     Generated      Diverted      Total       20% Incr.    20% Decr.     Combo-ed
Costs         Costs        Traffic       Traffic      Traffic                   Costs (a)     Bnft (bj     (la & ib)
Y-er
With the Project         ,  1987           96.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00      -96.00        -11520         -96.00       -115.20
X                 1988         -96.00          0 00          0.00         0 00          0.00     -96 00         -115.20       -96.00       -115-20
Without the Project         1989          -96.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00     -96.00        -115.20        -96.00       -115.20
1990  i       -96.00         0.00          0.0          0.00          0.00     -96.00 I       -115.20        -96.00      -11 5.20
1991         -96.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00     -96.00         -11 5.20      -96.00       -115.20
1992         -96 00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00     -96.00 j       -115.20       -96.00       -115.20
1993         -96.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00     -96.00 I       -115.20        -96.00      -115.20
1994         -96.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00     -96.00         -115.20       -96.00       -115.20
1995           0.00         -0.60       583.57          0.00          0.00     582,97          582.85       466.26        486.14
1996           0.00         -0.60       601.08          0.00          0.00     600.48          600.36       480.28        480.14
1997 -         0.00         -0.60       619.11          0.00          0.00     618.51          618.39       494.69        494.57
1998           0 00         -0.60       637.68          0.00          0.00     637.08  1       636.96       509.55        509.43
1999           0.00         -0.60       656.81          0.00          0.00     656.21  I       656.09       524.85        524.73
1  2000            0.00         -0.60       676.52          0.00         0.00     675.92          675.80        540.61       540.49
2001           0.00         -0.60       696.81          0.00          0.00     696.21          696.09       556.85        556.73
2002           0.00         -0.60        717.72         0.00          0.00     717.12 -        717.00       573.57        573.45
2003           0.00         -0.60        739.25         0.00          0.00     738.65          738.53       590.80        590.68
2004           0.00         -0.60        761.43         0.00          0.00     760.83          760.71       608.54        608.42
2005           0.00         -0.60        784.27         0.00          0.00     783.67 I        783.55       626.81        626.69
2006  j      116.00         -0.60       807.80          0.00          0.00     923.20          9 948.28     761.64        784.72
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     28.3%          25.7%         25.1 %        22.6%
Net Present Value at   12%               -520.65         -1.68      1859.70          0.00         0.00    1337.38         1232.90        965.42       860.96
NH45_1B.WK1 06/21/94



India - Tamil Nadu
NH45 - Tamil Nadu
Scenario 2B
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits (M Rs)                                          Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance     Norm.l      Generated      Diverted      Total      20% Incr.    20% Dec,.      Combined
Costs         Costs        Traffic       Traffic      Traffic                   Costs (a)     Bnft Ibl     (a) & lb)
Year
With the Project            1987         -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00         -135.60       -113.00      -1 35.60
X                 19S8         -113.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00    -113.00         -135.60       -113.00      -135.60
Without theProlect           1989        -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00         -135.60       -113.00      -135.60
1990        -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00 I       -135.60      -113.00       -135.60
1991        -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00         -135.60      -113.00       -135.60
1992        -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00 I       -135.60       -113.00      -135.60
1993        -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00         -135.60       -113.00      -135.60
1994        -113.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -113.00         -135.60       -113.00      -135.60
1995           0.00         -1.40       234.14          0.00          0.00     232.74          232.46       185.91        185.63
1996           0.00         -1.40       243.51          0.00          0.00     242.11  1       241.83       193.40        193.12
1997           0.00         -1.40       253.25          0.00          0.00     251.85          251.57       201.20        200.92
1998           0.00         -1.40       263.38          0.00          0.00     261.98 [        261.70       209.30        209.02
1999           0.00          -1.40      273.91          0.00          0.00     272.51          272.23       217.73        217.45
2000            0.00         -1.40      284.87           0.00         0.00     283.47          283.19       226.49        226.21
2001            0.00         -1.40      296.26          0.00          0.00     294.86 i        294.58       235.61        235.33                                     , 
2002            0.00         -1.40      308.11          0.00          0.00     306.71          306.43       245.09        244.81
2003            0.00         -1.40      320.44          0.00          0.00     319.04          318.76       254.95        254.67
2004            0.00         -1.40      333.25          0.00          0.00     331.85          331.57       265.20        264.92
2005            0.00         -1.40       346.58          0.00         0.00     345.18          344.90       275.87        275.59
j  2006          135.00         -1.40       360.45          0.00         0.00      494.05         520.77        421.96       448.68
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     14.7%           12.6%        12.1 %        10.1 %
Net Present Value at   12%                613.03         -3.92       779.86          0.00          0.00     162.90          39.51          6.93       -11 6.46
I _A
0
-4
NH45_28.WK1 06/21/94



India - Uttar Pradesh
Varanmi Bypass/Bridge
Scenario B
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits lM Rs)                                         Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance      Normal     Generated      Diverted      Total      20% Incr.    20% Decr.      Combined
Costs         Costs        Traffic       Traffic      Traffic                  Costs (a)      Bnft (b)     la) & lb)
Year
With the Project            1987  |       -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00  1      -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
X             I  1998 8        -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00         -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
Without the Project      I  1989 I        -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00         -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1990 I       -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00         -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1991  [      -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00         -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1992         -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00 j       -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1993 I       -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00 I       -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1994 I       -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00 ,       -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1995 I       -140.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00         -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1996 I       -140.00         0,00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -140.00         -168.00       -140.00      -168.00
1997            0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        334.86     334.36          334.26        267.39       267.29
1998 I          0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        361.65     361.15 I        361.05       288.82        288.72
1999 I          0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        390.58     390.08 [        389.98       311.97        311.87
2000 I          0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        421.83     421.33          421.23        336.96       336.86
2001  I         0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        455.58     455.08 I        454.98        363.96       363.86
2002  I         0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        492.02     491.52          491.42        393.12       393.02
2003            0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        531.39      530.89 I       530.79        424.61       424.51
2004 ,          0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        573.90     573.40          573.30        458.62       458.52
2005 I          0.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        619.81     619.31          619.21        495.35       495.25
2006 I        210.00         -0.50         0.00         0.00        669.39     878.89          920.79        745.01       786.91
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     12.7%           10.8%        10.4%          8.6%
Net Present Value at   127%              -861.57         -1.02         0.00          0.00       920.41       57.81         -114.70      -1 26.27      -298.79                              X 
(DN   A
x
0
NHV A.WK1 06/21/94



India - rVniab
NH1 Punjab
Scenario B
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits (M Rsl                                          Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance      Normal     Generated      Diverted      Total       20% Incr.    20% Decr.     Combined
Costs         Costs        Tr.ffic       Traffic       Traffic                  Costs (a)      Bntt tbi    (da & (b)
Year
With the Project         I  1987         -290.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00         -348.00      -290.00        348.00
X                 1988 I       -290.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00    -290.00         -348.00       -290.00       -348.00
Without the Project      j  1989  j       -290.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00  j      -348.00      -290.00        -348.00
1 990       -290.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00         -348.00       -290.00       -348.00
1991 I       -290.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00         -348.00       -290.00       -348.00
1 992 [      -290.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00         -348.00       -290.00       -348.00
1993 I       -290.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00  1      -348.00       -290.00       -348.00
1994 I       -290.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -290.00         -348.00       -290.00       -348.00
1995           0.00          -1.90      2695.83         0.00          0.00    2693.93         2693.55      2154.76       21 54.38
1996 I         0.00          -1.90      2911.49         0.00          0.00    2909.59         2909.21      2327.29       2326.91
1997           0.00          -1.90      3144.41         0.00          0.00    3142.51         3142.13      2513.63       2513.25
1998 I         0.00          -1.90      3395.97         0.00          0.00    3394.07         3393.69      2714.87       2714.49
1999           0.00          -1.90      3667.64         0.00          0.00    3665.74         3665.36      2932.21       2931.83
2000           0.00          -1.90      3961.05          0.00         0.00    3959.15         3958.77      3166.94       3166.56
2001            0.00         -1.90      4277.94          0.00         0.00    4276.04         4275.66       3420.45      3420.07
2002            0.00         -1.90      4620.17          0.00         0.00    4618.27         4617.89       3694.24      3693,86
2003 I         0.00          -1.90      4989.79         0.00          0.00    4987.89 -       4987.51       3989.93      3989.55
2004            0.00         -1.90      5388.97          0.00         0.00    5387.07         5386.69      4309.28       4308.90
2005 I         0.00          -1.90      5820.09         0.00          0.00    5818.19         5817.81       4654.17      4653.79
I  2006 I        350.00         -1.90      6285.70          0.00          0.00    6633.80        6703.42       5376.66       5446.28
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     36.7%           34.0%        33.4%         30.7%
Net Present Val.e at   12%              -1572.85         -5.32     10781.46          0.00          0.00    9203.29         8887.65      7046.99       6731.36
rD 01
0
NHlP_B.WK1 06/21/94



India Haryana
NH1 Haryana
Scenario B
Economic Evaluation and Sensitvity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits IM R.)                                          Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenaice      Normal     Generated      Diverted      Total      20% Incr     20% Decr.      Combined
Costs         Costs        Traffic       Traffic      Traffic                   Costs (a)     Bnft (b)     (al & lb1
Year
With the Prolect            1987         -152.00          0 00         0.00          0.00          0.00    -152.00        -182.40       -152.00       -182 40
X             .  1988         -152.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -152.00         -182.40      -152.00       -182.40
Withi.t the Project         1989         -152.00          0.00         0 00          0.00          0.00    -152.00        -182.40       -1 52.00      -1 82.40
1990        -152.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00    -152.00         -182.40      -152.00       -182 40
1991        -152.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -152.00         -182.40      -152.00       -182.40
1992         152.00          0 00         0 00          0.00          0.00    -152.00  ,      -182.40       -152.00      -1 82.40
1993        -152 00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00    -152.00 [       -182.40      -152.00       -182.40
1994        -152.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00    -152.00         -182.40      -152.00       -182.40
1995        -152.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -152.00         -182.40      -152.00       -182.40
1996           0.00         -1.20      1588.09          0.00          0.00    1588.89         1 586.65     1269.27       1269.03
1997           0.00         -1.20      1715.14          0.00          0.00    1713.94         1713.70      1370.91       1370.67
1998           0.00         -1.20      1852.35          0.00          0.00    1851.15 -       1850.91      1480.68       1480.44
1999           0.00         -1.20      2000.54          0.00          0.00    1999.34         1 999.10     1599.23       1598.99
2000           0.00          -1.20     2160.58          0.00          0.00    2159.38         2159.14      1727.27       1727.03
2001           0.00         -1.20      2333.43          0.00          0.00    2332.23         2331.99      1865.54       1865.30
2002           0.00          -1.20     2520 10          0.00          0.00    2518.90    ;   2518.66       2014.88       2014.64
2003 -         0.00         -1.20      2721.71          0.00          0.00    2720.51         2720.27      2176.17       2175.93
2004           000          -1.20      2939.45          0.00          0.00    2938.25         2938.01      2350.36       2350.12
2005           0.00          -1.20     3174.60          0.00          0.00    3173.40 i       3173.16      2538.48       2538.24
2006         205.00          -1.20     3428.57          0.00          0.00    3632.37         3673.13      2946.66       2987.42
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     33.4%          31.0%         30.4%         28.1 %
Net Present Valueat    12%               -883.28         -2.88      5286.92          0.00         0.00    4400.77         4223.54       3343.38      3166.15                               >
NH1H_B.WK1 06/21194



india - West Bengal
Durgapur Expressway
Scenario B
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Net Economic Benefits IM Rs)                                          Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance     Normal      Generated      Diverted      Total       20% Incr.    20% Dect.     Combined
Costs         Costs        Ttaffic       Traffic      Traffic                   Costs (a)     Bnft (b)     (a) & (b)
Year
With the Prolect            1987         -167.00          0.00          D.o0         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40       -167.00      -200.40
X                 1988         -167.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00    -167.00         -200.40       -167,00       -200.40
Without the Project         1989         -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40       -167.00      -200.40
1990        -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40       -167.00      -200.40
1991        -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40       -167.00      -200.40
1992        -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40      -167.00       -200.40
1993        -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00     -167.00        -200.40       -167.00      -200.40
1994        -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40       -167.00      -200.40
1995        -167.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -167.00         -200.40      -167.00       -200.40
1996           0.00          -1.10         0.00         0.00       1242.11    1241.01         1240.79       992.59        992.37
1997           0.00          -1.10         0.00         0.00       1341.48    1340.38         1340.16      1072.08       1071.86
1998           0.00          -1.10         0.00         0.00       1448.80    1447.70         1447.48      1157.94       1157.72
1999           0.00          -1.10         0.00         0.00       1564.70    1563.60         1563.38      1250.66       1250.44
2000           0.00          -1.10         0.00         0.00       1689.88    1688.78  !      1688.56      1350.80       1350.58
2001            0.00         -1.10         0.00         0.00       1825.07    1823.97         1823.75      1458.95       1458.73                                     p
2002            0.00         -1.10         0.00         0.00       1971.07    1969.97         1969.75      1575.76       1575.54
2003            0.00         -1.10         0.00         0.00       2128.76    2127.66         2127.44      1701.91       1701.69
2004            0.00         -1.10         0.00         0.00       2299.06    2297.96 [       2297.74      1838.15       1837.93
2005            0.00         -1.10         0.00         0.00       2482.99    2481.89         2481.67      1985.29       1985.07
2006         225.00          -1.10         0.00         0.00       2681.62    2905.52         2950.30      2369.20       241 3.98
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     28.9%           26.6%        26.1 %        23.8%
Net Present Value at   12%               -970.47         -2.64         0.00          0.00       4135.12    3162.01         2967.38      2334.98       2140.36
NE2_B.WK1 06/21/94



India - Gujarat
Vadodara to Ahmedabad Expressway
Scenario B
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analyss
Net Economic Benefits IM Rs)                                          Sensitivity Analysis
Capital   Maintenance      Normal     Generated      Diverted      Total      20% lncr.    20% Decr.      Combined
Costs         Costs        Traffic       Traffic      Traffic                   Costs (a)      Bnft (bl     la) & tbl
Year
With the Project         |  1987 |       -465.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00 F       -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
X             F  1988 F        -465.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00    -465.00 F       -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
Without the Project      I  1989 |       -465.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00         -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
1990 F       -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00         -558.00       -465.00       -558.00
1991  I      -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00         -558.00       -465.00      -556.00
1992 F       -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00  I      -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
1993 F       -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00 F       -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
1994 I       -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00 I       -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
1995 I       -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00 I       -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
1996 I       -465.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    -465.00 I       -558.00       -465.00      -558.00
1997 I         0.00         -1.50          0.00         0.00       3846.25    3844.75 I       3844.45      3075.50       3075.20
1998 F         0.00         -1.50          0.00         0.00       4153.95    4152.45 I       4152.15      3321.66       3321.36
1999 I         0.00         -1.50          0.00         0.00       4486.27    4484.77 I       4464.47      3587.52       3587.22
2000 F          0.00         -1.50         0.00         0.00       4645.17    4843.67 I       4843.37      3874.64       3874.34                                      W
2001  F         0.00         -1.50         0.00         0.00       5232.78    5231.28 I       5230.98      4184.73       4184.43                                      U1
2002  F         0.00         -1.50         0.00         0.00       5651.41    5649.91  I      5649.61      4519.63       4519.33
2003  F         0.00         -1.50         0.00         0.00       6103.52    6102.02 I       6101.72      4661.32       4881.02
2004 F          0.00         -1.50         0.00         0.00       6591.80    6590.30 F       6590.00      5271.94       5271.64
2005  F         0.00         -1.50         0.00         0.00       7119.15    7117.65 F       7117.35       5693.82      5693.52
F  2006  F       700.00         -1.50         0.00          0.00      7686.68    8387.18         8 6526.66     6849.44      6989.14
Internal Rate of Return:                                                                                     26.4%          24.3%         23.8%         21.79%
Net Preent Value at    12%              -2861.36         -3.06          0.00         0.00     10571.83    7707.41         7134.53       5593.05       5020.16                          i|>
NE1 _B.WK1 06/21/94



