Document of
The World Bank
FOR CFFICIAL USE ONLY
kA  a4- h
Report No. P-4646-M
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
February 22, 1988
Ths document bus a restued H  _  and qM be sed by        woly in the perouue of
heir oki_al dutim  ts conteat my nt otewise be dbdoud     Wodd BDn kt_



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On February 19, 1988, the exchange rate in the controlled market
was US$1 = Mex$2,261; the free market exchange rate stood
at US$1 - Mex$2,300
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha) - 10,000 square meters (n2) 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer kkm) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) - 2.205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms - 1 metric ton (t) = 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1) = 0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF                      -      Average Cost of Funds to Banks
ASL                     -       Agricultural Sector Loan
BANCOMEXT               -       Foreign Trade Bank
Azucar, S.A. de C.V.    -       National Sugar Company
CETES                   -       Treasury Bills
CONASUPO                -       National Basic Food Company
DICCONSA                -       Retail Affiliate of CONASUPO
FERTIMEX                -       National Fertilizer Company
FIRA                    -       Agricultural Trust Funds in Bank of Mexico
GATT                    -       General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP                     -       Gross Domestic Product
GIRA                    -       General Interest Rate Agreement
IFC                     -       International Finance Corporation
IMF                     -       International Monetary Fund
LICONSA                  -      Milk Producing and Distributing Affiliate of
CONASUPO
NAFIN                   -       National Finance Agency
PAC                     -       Program of Adjustment and Structural Change
PEMEX                    -      National Petroleum Company
PIDER                   -       Integrated Rural Development Program
PSBR                    -       Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
QR                      -       Quantitative Restriction on Trade
SAP                     -       Special Action Program
SARH                    -      Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
SECOFI                  -      Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion
SEMIP                          Ministry of Parastatal Industries
SHCP                    -      Ministry of Finance
SPP                     -      Ministry of Planning and Budgetting
TPL                     -       Trade Policy Loan
TRICONSA                -       Wheat Processing Affiliate of CONASUPO



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Table of Contents
_age No.
Loan and Program Summary .......... ...............................    1.
I.    The Economy                                                      1
A. Background .........................................    1
B.  Recent Economic Developments.........................    4
C.  Development Prospects ........................               7
D.  External Debt and Creditworthiness          ..................    8
II.   The Agricultural Sector           ................................    9
A&  Performance             9............,                       9
B. Status of Current Bank Lending and the
Policy Dialogue for Agriculture    .....................   10
III.  Policy Objectives Supported by the Proposed
Agricultural Sector Loan       ..      .....................  11
A. Removal of Global Food Subsidies and
Targetting of Remaining Subsidies          ....................  12
B. Reducing Government Intervention in Establishing
Producer and Consumer Prices .....        ....................  14
C.  Reducing the Role of Parastatals in
Agricultural Marketing, Storage and Proaesslng .......  17
D. Progress Toward Agricultural Trade
Liberalization ........       ..............................  20
E.  Reducing Subsidies on Agricultural Inputs        ............  22
F. A Satisfactory Public Investment Program in
Agriculture ............................   25
G. Decentralization and Reduction of Staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture          .......................  26
IV.   History and Procedures of the Proposed Loan ...        ...........  27
A.  Loan History         ........................................  27
Be  The Borrower ....       .....................................  27
C. Disbursement, Procurement, Administration
anti Auditing      ....................................... ..  27
D.  Effectiveness and Tranche Release          ....................  28
E.  Monitoring and Reporting          ............................  29
F.  Benefits and Rxska ........       ...........................  29
G.  Social Impact of Agricultural Sector Adjustment....  .  30
This document has a restrited disbution and may be used by recipients only In ti vtibawanco
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witout World Ban-% authorvk4



^ ii-
TAIL! OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
Page No.
V.    Bank Group Operations in Mexico ........ ........... .......      31
A* Bank Operations   ....................es...............        31
Bo lFC Operations       .............31
C. Bank Strategy .............32
VI.   Collaboration with the IMP                                        34
VII.   Recommendation                                                   35
ANNEXES
1.   Economic Indicators
2.    Status of lank Group Orerations in Mexico
3.    Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
4.    Characteristics of Production and Land Distribution
5.    Policy Matrix
6.    Table 1 - CONASUPO's Food Subsidies
Table 2 - Production Coverage of Price Controls, 1982 and 1986
Table 3 - Average Nominal Protection Coefficients for Major Crops
Table 4 - Recent Nominal Protection Coefficients for Major Crops
Table 5 - Percentage of Production Under Licensing
Table 6 - List of Agricultural, Agro-Industry, Livestock, Forestry
and Marine Products Included by SECOPI in Discussions of
Liberalization under TPL II
Graph 1 - Crop Support Prices - In Real Terms
Graph 2 - Producer and International Prices - Maize
Graph 3 - Producer and International Prices - Wheat
Graph 4 - Producer and International Prices - Beans
Graph 5 - Producer and International Prices - Rice
Graph 6 - Producer and International Prices - Sorghum
Graph 7 - Producer and International Prices - Soybeans
7.    Social Impact of Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
8.    Terms of Reference for Studies
9.    Agricultural Sector Objectives of the Mexican Governaent 1987-1988
10.   Steps Recommended to Strengthen Food Subsidy Programs
11.   Status of Multi-Facility



MEXTCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Program Summarg
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Aaount:         US$300.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Loan and
Program
Description:    The proposed sector loan is the first of a series of such
loans to promote greater efficiency and higher productivity
in the agricultural and agro-industrial sectors. It is an
important part of the package of external financing linked to
implementation of Mexico's economic reform program. The
proposed loan supports a program of continuing reforms and of
achievements in the areas of consumer food subsidies and
their targetting, improvement of producer pricing policies,
privatization of parastatals, agricultural and
agro-industrial trade liberalization, streamlining and
decentralizing of the Ministry of Agriculture,
rationalization of public investments in agriculture, and
reduction of input subsidies, The loan would finance general
imports with priority given to agricultural inputs and
foodstuffs.
Benefits
and Risks:      The benefits of the reform program would consist of rising
productivity and allocative efficiency in both agriculture
and agro-industry, as adjustments in pricing make the
incentive structure correspond more closely to economic
opportunity costs.   In addition, fiscal savings to the
Mexican Governmant would be substantial while remaining
subsidies would be more selective and targetted to the poor.
An expanded food stamp program for urban areas and targetting
of food price subsidies only to stores in poor neighborhoods
and economically depressed rural areas would buffer the
impact of the adjustments of food prices on the urban poor
and on poor rural groups that do not produce their own food.
The result of the studies Included in the loan would assist
the Government in designing a program of further reforms.



- ii -
The risks of the project derive from the political resistance
to some of the ref orms and the stability of the
macroeconomy. Also, the general growth of the macroeconomy
will influence the prosperity of the agriculture sector.
These risks are mitigated by the substantial forms that
the Government has already taken up front and the strong
commitment of the Government to continuing reform,
liberalization of the economy, and sound macroeconomic
management.
Estimated
Disbursments:   The loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
US$25 million of the first tranche (US$100 million) would be
available upon effectiveness, with first tranche
disburaements thereafter contingent upon removal of export
controls on exportable rice and quality cuts of beef and
agreement on terms of reference for certain studies,
discussion of which is a second tranche release condition.
The second tranche of US$200.0 million would be released upon
fulfillment of specified conditions related to each of the
policy areas and satisfactory completion and discussion with
the Bank of all studies. Loan proceeds may be used for
retroactive financing of import expenditures incurred after
November 22, 1987, up to a ceiling of US$60 million.
Schedule of
Disbursements:                                        Amounts in US$ Millions
Bank FY                                  88      89
First Tranche                           100.0
Second Tranche                                  200.0
Cumulative                              100.0   300.0
Appraisal
Report:         This is a combined Ptesident's and Staff Appraisal Report.



REPORT AND   CIOIN OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INIENTION   D     PSUION AnD DmAOnT
TO TE EIVCUT     DIRECTRS
ON A PROPOSED AGRICULTUR   SECR LOAN TO
N&CIOAL FINNCIER}A, S.N.C.
wITHTHE GWARANTE OF THE UITD IMICAN STATES
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Agricultural Sector Loan (ASL) to Nacional Financiers, S.N,C. (NAFIN), with
the guarantee of the United Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$300
million in support of the Government's program of agricultural policy
reform. The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOHY
2.       An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico:  After the Oil Booms
Refashioning a Strategy for Growth. No. 6659-ME) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 239 1987. It assesses the implications of the
rapid policy changes underway in Mexico, particularly from mid-1985 through
early 1987.
A. Backtround
3.       Mexico experienced three decades of high and stable growth from
the 19409 to the 1960s, based on an inward-looking growth strategy. By
1970, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the e.sy possibilities for
import substitution, and growth started to slow down. The Government
attempted to foster growth through an expansion of public sector
expenditures, and the encouragement of high-cost, capital-intensive import
substitution. This strategy failed to sustain sound economic growth, and
in 1976 Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis. The
exchange rate was devalued, and an International Monetary Fund (InF) stand-
by program Implemented. New oil revenues led to a quick economic recovery
in 1977, and greatly enlarged Mexico's access to foreign borrowing.
Starting in 1980, rapidly rising public expenditures, unmatched by gains in
revenue, generated huge increases in public sector deficits. Although
inflation rose rapidly, no significant pressure was felt to adjust, because
of burgeoning oil export earnings and abundant foreign financing. As
imports increased rapidly and non-oil exports declined, an appreciating
real exchanga rate and lagging domestic interest rates encouraged capital
flight. However, the increasing precariousness of the balance of payments
was masked for a time by a frenzy of borrowing, which nearly doubled the
level of external debt in just two years from US$40 billion in 1979 to
US$78 billion in 1981.
4.       The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures
reached the unprecedentea level of 47.5Z of GDP, while the deficit reached



nearly 18% of GDP. In February, the Bank of Mexico stopped supporting the
peso, which then experienced a 402 devaluation. But a large wage
adjustment, continuing slack in the oil market, and lax fiscal and monetary
policies largely nullified the intended benefits of the devaluation and
kept the balance of payments under strain. Inflation measured in consumer
prices nearly quadrupled, from 291 in 1981 to 992 in 1982. Commercial
banks, which had granted Mexico substantial credit in previous years,
declined to commit new funds in the amounts required. These factors led to
a second devaluation of 35Z in August 1982 and the suspension of
amortisalion payments on most of Mexico's external public debt.  The
nationalization of the domestic private commercial banks in September 1982
and the forced conversion of foreign currency accounts into pesos at a
controlled exchange rate, dealt additional blows to private sector
confidence. The flight of capital abroad continued at a high rate.
5.       With the support of an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from the INF,
the new administration of President Miguel de la Madrid undertook a
stabilization pro-ram beginning in late 1982 based on a large contraction
of domestic demand, mainly through fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary
policies. The peso was depreciated by an inmediate 302 (in addition to the
642 cumulative depreciation carried out by the preceding government In
1982), and quantitative restrictions were extended to cover all imports.
Over the next two years, public sector expenditure, excluding interest
payments, declined from a high of 391 of GDP in 1982 to about 291 in 1984,
while revenues rose from about 302 to 331 of GDP.  Public sector investment
was cut from an average of around 1OZ of GDP in the late 1970s to 7.51 in
1984, a contraction of over one-quarter in real teoms. Between 1982 and
1984, the public sector borrowing requirement declined from 17.71 of GDP to
8.4Z, while the inflation-adjusted fiscal deficit (excluding the
inflationary component of interest payments on domestic debt) shifted from
a deficit of 8.21 to 3.01 of GDP. Real wages fell 20-25Z, while most
public sector prices were raised sharply in real terms. And a massive
foreign debt restructuring was successfully negotiated in 1983 and again in
1984.
6.       The results of the 1983-84 stabilization effort were initially
impressive. In those two years, nominal Imports fell cumulatively by 251,
non-oil export earnings (including the earnings of in-bond industries) rose
54X, and the balance of trade on goods and non-factor services shoved
unprecedented surpluses averaging around 9% of GDP. Despite declining oil
prices, net foreign reserves increased from US$2.0 billion to US$6.5
billion between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. And a strong turn-
around in economic activity from -5.31 in 1983 to 3.71 in 1984 led many to
believe a long-term recovery was underway. However, a large part of the
adjustment took the form of drastic cuts in imports and investment. In
contrast, long-term obstacles to growth were not confronted. The anti-
export bias of the trade regime was actually intensified with the
introduction of additional import controls. Nor was the system of
industrial incentives overhauled in ways which might have enhanced Mexico's
international competitiveness.
7.       The optimism generated by Mexico's initial adjustment success soon
started to fade. The declines in inflation became smaller and smaller,
until the trend began to reverse in 1985. As the Government prepared for



-3-
the mid-term Congrestional elections of July 1985, monetary policy became
accomodating, the fiscal deficit rose well above program targets, and the
exchange rate appreciated rapidly In real terms   Optimism turned to
disenchantment, as it became clear that stabilization in the absence of
more fundamental structural reforms could not restore either sustainable
economic growth or stable prices.
8.       Most IM? program targets were missed in 1985. The fiscal deficit
rose to 9.5S of GDP, inflation increased to 63.7S, non-oil export earning.
declined by over 10 from their 1984 levels, and most components of the
balance of payments deteriorated. Speculative pressures on the exchange
rate increased, and net foreign reserves declined by US$3.4 billion. The,
crowding out of the private sector in credit markets became saoere toward
the end of the year, as financial disintermediation accelerated and the
share of the public sector in total credit reached unprecedented levels, in
excess of 751.
9.       Following the elections, a policy shift occurred.  Macro-
stabilization measures were complemented with the structural reforms needed
to deal with Mexico's long-term development problems. At the heart of
these reforms was the Government's desire to increase the efficiency of
Mexican industry through greater exposure to international competition, to
reduce the economy's dependence on oil exports and foreign borrowing, and
to create a new stimulus for growth. The first major reforms included
removing import licensLng requirements from 40Z of merchandise imports,
merging, liquidating, or selling several hundred smaller state-owned
companies, and starting the rationalization of major parastatal operations
In steel, fertilizers, agriculture, petrochemicals, trucks and sugar.
10.      As for the macro-stabilization measures, the Government introduced
further spending cutbacks in the public sector, and eliminated some 25,000
full-time positions. Sustained positive real interest rate levels were
restored, the controlled exchange rate was devalued by 201, and a flexible
daily crawl introduced which responded to developments in the balance of
payments, rather than, as before, to a pro-announced schedule. The new
exchange rate policy greatly narrowed the margin between the controlled and
free rates and, combined with tighter domestic credit, helped bring capital
flight to a virtual halt toward the end of 1985.
11.      This new adjustment cum structural reform effort received a set-
back in early 1986 with the collapse of oil prices. As a result of this,
Mexico lost revenues equivalent to 6.51 of GDP (i.e., over US$8 billion).
However, instead of closing the economy, as in 1983, the Government now
accelerated its structural reforms. To lend credibility ..o its commitment
for integration with the world economy, the country joined the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), announced a three-year program to
lower tariffs to a maximum of 301, and ptomised to further reduce non-
tariff barriers (NTBs). Foreign investment procedures were simplified and
public finances strengthened through tax reform, price adjustments, and
spending cuts. The restructuring of the parastatals began in earnest, with
the closure of a major steel plant in Monterrey and the privatization,
liquidation, or transfer of some 600 smaller publicly-owned companies. The
Government restructured the finances of the state-owned agricultural
marketing enterprise, CONASUPO, and sharply reduced general food subsidies.



-4-
Fiscal performance In 1986 was in line with IMF targets, even though due to
an acceleration of inflation the public sector borrowing requirement rose
from 9.52 to 15.62 of GDP. In spite of the drastic reduction in oil
revenues, the inflation-adjusted fiscal deficit increased only from 4.02
GDP in 1985 to 6.2Z of GDP In 1986. The real devaluation of the psos was
accelerated, real interest rates rose to exceptionally high levels, and a
squeeze on credit to the private sector helped turn around capital flows,
resulting in the repatriation of as much as US$3.0 billion during the
period from September 1986 to mid-1987. However, 1986 Inflation reached
1062, and real GDP contracted by some 3.82.
12.      Mexico's program was supported by a financial package signed in
March 1987, which will provide up to US$10.7 billion in net flows,
including a US$5 billion parallel commercial bank new money facility
carrying a World Bank guarantee of US$750 million, US$1 billion in
cofinancing, a US$0.5 billion Growth Facility, and an IMF stand-by and
contingent oil facilities. Because oil prices have not dropped below an
agreed threshold during 1987 the oil facility was cancelled in December
1987. Also, the Growth Facility has not been activated as of the end of
February 1988. Some US$68.7 billion commercial bank debt was restructured,
with new maturities varying between 8 and 20 years, and grace periods
between 4 and 9 years. US$1.8 billion in official bilateral debt was also
rescheduled. The current status of the multi-facility is shown in Annex
11.
3. Recent Economic Develoiments
13.      Over the past five years, Mexico made important progress in
solving its fundamental macro imbalances. Progress was especially
Impressive in the external accounts, as manufactures export earnings grew
at over 202 annually, the trade surplus ranged between 7-10% of GDP and net
official reserves were raised from -US$2 billion at the end of 1982 to
roughly US$9 billion at the end of 1987, tha highest level in Mexican
history. On the internal front, major parastatals, including FERTIMEX and
CONASUPO, are in various stages of restructuring, roughly 600 smaller firms
have been divested, price controls have been loosened, significant reforms
of the value-added and corporate income taxes have been introduced, and
global food and credit subsidies have been sharply reduced.
14..     However, other developments have not been as favorable. After
decades of economic growth averaging over 6% annually, cumulative real
output contracted by about 2S during 1983-87, while real per capita
consumption declined by about 142, and real investment by 20% (402 since
1980). And not least among these disappointments was the failure to reduce
inflation. Having inherited a then-record rate of 1002 in 1982, the
current Government reduced this to under 60% by 1984. However, since then,
inflation has risen to nearly 1602 in 1987. The unfavorable terms of trade
shock and the heavy burden of Mexico's external debt have had, in the short
run, negative effects on Mexico's overall economic performance.
15.      Behind inflation lies the large, seemingly intractable public
sector borrowing requirement (PSBR), estimated at 16.6% of GDP for 1987,
i.e., almost as large as in 1982 during the height of Mexico's balance of
payments crisis. However, this high PSBR masks a significant adjustment in



the inflation-adjusted fiscal deficit, which has fallen from 8.2% of GDP in
1982 to 3.02 in 1984, before rising under pressure of oil-export related
losses to 6.22 in 1986. It fell sharply once again to an estimated 1.12 of
GDP in 1987 (although, if transitory fiscal gains like the public sector's
abnormally low real borrowing costs and the upswing In oil export income
were removed from the calculation, the 1987 inflation-adjusted deficit
would have been closer to 52 of GDP).
16.      Other fundamentals whose behavior worried financial markets in
1987 included the October collapse of world stock markets, which triggered
a 752 decline in the Mexican bolsa in just a month and a halfg an
acceleration in the size and frequency of wage adjustments since 1986,
which, combined with growing labor unrest and electoral campaign pledge3,
had convinced many economic agents that wage policy could become a pro-
inflationary factor for the first time since 1981; increasing distortions
in relative prices, due to seriously delayed adjustments of controlled
prices in the public sector and agriculture; declining real interest rates;
and a small, but worrisome appreciation of the real exchange rate, albeit
from a very favorable starting level at the end of 1986.
17.      In this climate of growing malaise about the economic
fundamentals, any major unexpected economic developments were almost
certain to be destabilizing. One such development--the sharp decline in
world stock market values in October--was previously mentioned. A second,
which occurred at roughly the same time, was a one-time opportunity for
private companies to buy up their external debt at discounts of 502 or
more, as part of a debt rescheduling agreement signed with foreign
commercial banks. A huge temporary additional demand for foreign exchange
put strong pressure on the free exchange rate in October and in the first
half of November. Initially, the Central Bank tried to dampen this
pressure by selling foreign reserves. But after losing over US$1 billion
in one month, the monetary authority withdrew from the market on November
19, triggering a one-day depreciation of the free exchange rate of nearly
60%. Panic buying, demands by labor for an emergency wage increase of 46%,
and continued speculative attacks on both the free and controlled exchange
rates intensified the crisis, leading eventually to wholesale revisions of
the 1988 budget and macroeconomic program.
18.      On December 14, the Government announcedt
i)     a 222 one-step depreciation of the controlled exchange rate
from Mex$1,803/US$1 to Mex$2,200IUS$l, accompanied by;
iI)    a reduction in the maximum import tariff rate from 452 to
20%.
This was followed the next day by the announcement of an Economic
Solidarity Pact signed by representatives of labor, farming, industry, and
the Government, which contained additional features, namely:
iiI) an immediate increase of all wages by 152, with a second
increase in the minimum wage of 202 granted on January 1,
1988. Contractual wages come up for their annual
negotiations in large numbers during this period, but



- 6 -
efforts will be made to limit floor adjustments to the 201
increase granted for the minimum wage. With that
allowance, all wages are then to be frozen until March 1,
1988, at which time they are to be adjusted monthly in line
with the projected average price changes in an index of
basic goods and services. Monthly wage adjustments would
continue, so long as inflation remained above a 21 monthly
rate. In the event the forward-looking monthly adjustments
of basic goods prices were to lag observed inflation by
more than 5 percentage points cumulatively, a catch-up
increase for the full differential would be granted to wage
earners.
iv)    immediate increases of 17-852 in the prices of key public
goods and services, after which public prices are to be
frozen until March 1, 1988, and then adjusted in line with
wages;
v)     corrective price increases for basic consumer goods and
guaranteed farm prices before the end of 1987, followed by
a 2-month freeze, and then by subsequent price adjustments
in line with wages and. public goods. Guaranteed farm
producer prices for 1988 are to be maintained at 1987
levels in real terms. Increased public sector imports of
basic goods are to be used to combat shortages, while
sanctions for hoarders and price control violators have
been promised;
vi)    an increase of the primary fiscal surplus by 2.91 of GDP in
1988 to a level of 8.32 of GDP, though approximately equal
increases in revenues and reductions in non-interest public
spending.
vii)   a program of accelerated divestment of state-owned
companies, of which 52 new companies have already been
placed for sale, including a copper company valued at
roughly US$1 billion;
viii) a ceiling on domestic banking credit to the private sector
outstanding by lending institutions equal to 901 of the
average nominal balance of December 1987 for January and
851 of the December nominal balance for February; and
ix)    sharp increases in treasury bill and other short-term
nominal interest rates from 81 monthly in October to over
131 in January 1988.
19.      The sequencing of the Mexican stabilization program can be split
into two periods. The first period, lasting until the end of February
1988, is transitional, during which the once-and-for-all impact of relative
price corrections would be felt. The second period would start in March
1988, and, if all goes well, last some 9-10 months. Major nominal prices
(wages, basic goods, and public prices) would follow a concerted declining
pathway geared toward reducing inflation, while preserving a rebalanced and



-7-
essentially fixed structure of relative prices. While the Government is
committed to reducing consumer price controls in the long run, during this
period It will have to use the instruments of consumer price controls
selectively.
20.      Following the adjustment of wages, public tariffs and prices, and
the exchange rate in December, the Government predicted that Inflation
would accelerate significantly in January (indeed, it subsequently reached
18.2S at the producer level, 15.5Z at the consumer level), to be followed
by a marked deceleration in February to around 7-8S. The transitional
phase is designed to correct major disequilibria in relative prices (real
wages, real public utility and basic commodity prices, and the real
exchange rate), and, then, to maintain them from March 1988 onwards through
forward-looking adjustment of the major nominal variables.
21.      Assuming the behavior of inflation during February confirs
approximately to Governmental expectations, then the subsequent adjustment
of wages, public and basic prices, and the exchange rate uniformly, and in
a declining monthly pattern, will provide a strong nominal anchor which,
with support from the strong monetary, fiscal, and import adjustments the
Government has committed to, can gradually break the inertial components of
inflation.
22.      The Economic Solidarity Pact reflects a carefully thought out
stabilization strategy which draws upon the lessons learned from experience
in other countries, adapting them to Mexican circumstances. It quite
rightly elevates the goals of attacking high inflation and correcting
severely distorted relative prices to priority objectives, needed to
consolidate the structural reforms and continue an export-led growth
strategy. This effort will be reinforced by accelerated public enterprise
reforms, and accelerated import liberalization which goes well beyond the
earlier commitments the Government undertook in connection with TPL I and
II.
23.      Needless to say, policy fine-tuning is extremely difficult at high
rates of inflation with volatile private sector expectations. The chances
of unintended, but critical, policy errors are, correspondingly, high.
Ultimately, a successful stabilization effort will largely depend on
whether policymakers demonstrate a strong preference to err on the side of
caution. If the Impact of the program on economic activity were
immediately and strongly adverse, steady, calm support for continuing the
basic lines of the Pact would be crucial. Corrective policies could be
adopted only gradually, so as not to risk undermining the credibility of
the original commitment to the Pact, while avoiding over-reaction.
C. Development Pros-ects
24.      Provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its current
stabilization program, accompanied by the major structural adjustment
policies already described and a reasonably favorable international
environment, the fundamentals for future recovery look promising. First,
Mexico has a rich natural and human resource base and close proximity to
the world's largest market. Secondly, the rationalization of the trade
regime of the last two years and the recent policy announcements about its



- 8 -
future direction have created a set of incentives favoring international
competition. Thirdly, the drastic fall in the terms of trade is beginning
to turn around now that world oil and other commodity prices significant
for Mexico's exports have partially recovered.  This  improvement In the
terms of trade should have significant salutary effects on fiscal,
financial, and balance of payments performance, as well as on growth,
investment, and employment. Fourthly, the over 402 decline in real wages
since 1981 has made Mexican unit labor coats highly competitive
internationally, well below those of Southeast Asia. Therefore, under
moderately favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's economic
growth could reach 4-52 a year in the early 1990s.
25.      Progress in the areas of poverty alleviation and social sector
development has slowed in the wake of the 1982 crisis. As the economy
gradually begins to recover, it is possible to foresee a significant
increase in the emphasis on social sector issues in Mexico. Given the
continued stringency of public budgetary resources, this increased emphasis
will depend heavily upon better cost-recovery and Improved efficiency in
the targeting and delivery of social services.
26.      Historically, ecological and natural resource management issues
have ranked low on the list of policy priorities. However, in recent
months, pollution control, soil erosion, deforestation, and other issues in
Mexico's management of its ecology and natural resources have received
increasing Governmental and Bank attention.
D. External Debt and Creditworthiness
27.      Mexico's gross external public and private debt increased by
nearly US$17 billion during 1983-87, but net debt by only about US$6
billion, taking into account the roughly US$11 billion Improvement in net
official reserves over that period. The debt service ratio fell from 612
In 1982 to 502 in 1987. At the end of that year, the Bank's share of
Mexico's long-term debt was 7.12, and its share of Mexico's long-term debt
service was 7.42. The Bank's exposure in Mexico was 8.12 of its total
portfolio. With its expanded assistance program in Mexico, this latter
ratio is expected to rise somewhat by the end of this decade, but will
remain below 10 of the Bank's total portfolio. In the expectation that
sound economic policies continue, and that the external environment remains
favorably for the execution of these policies, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for Bank lending.



-9-
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SUCTOR
A.  Po
28.       In the 1970s and 1980s agriculture has turned in a largely lackluster
performance relative to its historically dynamic role. From the end of World
War II to the mid-1960s, Mexican agriculture was a success, growing faster than
in any other Latin American country, largely because cultivated and irrigated
areas expanded. More specifically, in the 1950 to 1965 period, agricultural
GDP growth averaged 4.3% per annum. However, beginning in the late 1960s
several factors began to converge to retard growth. As the costs of bringing
marginal land into production rose, expansion of irrigated areas slowed down.
In the 1970s, exchange rate and pricing policies discriminated against
agriculture and further contributed to the deceleration of the growth of
agricultural production. As income growth in other sectors and rapid
population growth of over 3% per year expanded the demand for food, food
imports increased and the sector's share of exports fell. While before 1970,
Mexico produced sufficient food to feed its population and export substantial
surpluses, by the end of the 1970s, it had become a major importer of basic
foodstuffs. These adverse circumstances resulted in a growth rate of
agricultural GDP averaging 2.3% per annum between 1970 and 1980, compared to
overall GDP growth of around 5% and industrial GDP growth of around 7%.
29.       In March 1980, the Government resorted to drastic measures to reverse
the decline of agriculture by making use of the growing revenues from oil.
Higher support prices, more input subsidies, and expansion in subsidized
credit, coinciding with favorable weather, led to substantial increases of
agricultural production of 6X in 1980 and in 1981. However, with declining oil
prices, rising interest rates and debt service, and growing consumer subsidies,
these Government actions in support of agriculture proved to be unsustainable.
In 1982, when farmgate prices were allowed to fall in real terms in the face of
high inflation, agricultural production declined by 1%. At the end of 1982,
the costly push for agricultural recovery was largely abandoned; the set of
policies designed to solve food problems by channeling a large share of the
country's new petroleum wealth into the sector and into providing cheap food
for urban dwellers was an early victim to Mexico's continuing economic crisis.
30.       Beginning in 1983 and through the 1985 crop year, agricultural
production recovered moderately to an average growth of about 2.52, primarily
due to a supportive exchange rate and favorable weather. However, in 1986,
agricultural production fell by close to 3%. Crop output declined by 3.5%,
partly due to poor weather, while livestock production fell as demand for meat
and milk contracted dramatically (a result of falling incomes and the high
income elasticity of demand for these products) and higher costs of production
and price controls made it difficult to maintain profits in this sector.
However, increasing exports (led by coffee and fresh fruits and vegetables) and
declining consumption of higher valued products (particularly meat and, thus,
imported feedgrains), produced a substantial agricultural trade surplus
estimated at over US$1 billion. This was the first agricultural trade surplus
since 1979. For the first half of 1987, the agricultural trade balance
deteriorated by about 15% but remained in surplus primarily due to strong
performance in the manufactured foods sector (exports up by over 40%).



- 10 -
31.       The Government continues to seek remedies to critical rural and
agricultural problems. Instead of reverting to the kinds of costly subsidies
used in the early 1980s, the Government has turned its attention to improving
the effectiveness of public investments, reducing and targetting remaining
subsidies, and limiting its intervention in the market. In this context, the
Government has been implementing policy reforms that will bring about greater
sectoral efficiency.
B. Status of Current Bank TLendig and the Policy Dlalogue for Agriculture
32.       Current Bank lerding in agriculture is directed at supporting the
Government's program to improve the efficiency of agricultural infrastructure
and production. Proposed loans currently under preparation or appraisal
include projects to rehabilitate and enhance the efficiency of irrigation
systems, to revitalize and promote small- and medium-scale agro-industrial
development, to expand and conserve forestry resources, and to improve
efficiency and productivity in dairying. Furthermore, a recently approved loan
would assist in improving the efficiency and impact of agricultural research
and extension. In addition, a Ninth Agricultural Credit Project that addresses
financial self-sustainability of apex financial institutions (e.g., FIRA) and
the question of interest rate subsidies, is beir.g implemented. The Fertilizer
Sector Project being presented to the Board ir. parallel with the ASL aims at
restructuring the fertilizer industry and reeucing subsidies. And the second
Trade Policy Loan, combined with further tariff reductions of the Pact, further
reduced industrial protection and improved the internal terms of trade for the
agriculture sector.
33.       An active policy dialogue is also being pursued to support the Bank's
lending strategy in the agricultural sector. A critical juncture in this
dialogue for agriculture was reached in 1986. As part of the Bank's overall
policy dialogue, a paper on agricultural sector issues was presented to the
Mexican Government in mid-January 1986. This paper, prepared for the Country
Programming and Iuplementation Review, proposed a sector adjustment loan in
agriculture to assist the Government in achieving and reinforcing its policy
objectives in the areas of (a) agricultural export promotion and trade reform;
(b) subsidy control and targetting; (c) price deregulation; (d) marketing
deregulation; and (e) public sector investment and expenditure in agriculture.
The paper indicated that, if the Government was prepared to implement a program
of policy initiatives and reforms to achieve these objectives, the Bank would
consider a quick-disbursing policy loan to support the Government's program.
Officials of the Mexican Government indicated an interest in this approach.
Subsequent missions followed and significant headway on a program of policy
reform began to emerge after January 1986. These reforms were supported and
reinforced by two Trade Policy Loans (TPL's) and the entry of Mexico into GAMT,
which began the reduction of industrial protection and provided the basis for
improved internal terms of trade for agriculture and thus better incentives to
this sector.  The Bank proposes to reinforce the momentum building up behind
the initial policy reform program by means of the ASL.



-  s      l -
m*E  xII - OLICE OIJUCtZVES SUmKw lSD     ill PI-OPOStD
34.       As a consequence of the economic cirisis facing Mexico, the Government
has begun a far-reaching program to restructure the economy to achieve greater
allocative efficiency and equity.  An integral part of this restructuring is a
program of agricultural and food policy reforms that include: (a) sharply
reducing global consumer subsidies and better targetting remaining subsidies so
that they benefit the truly needy; (b) bringing agricultural producer prices
closer in line with prices; (c) rendering the storage, processing, distribution
and marketing activities of parastatals more efficient including, where
appropriate, privatization of these; (d) moving towards economic prices for
agricultural inputs (e.g., fertilizers and water); (e) liberalizing, over time,
the trade regime with regard to the import and export of agricultural inputs
and products (including not only progress in the removal of prohibitions and
quantitative restrictions but also providing the private sector greater access
to import activities); (f) diminishing credit subsidies by moving towards
market-determined interest rates; (g) achieving a sound investment program;
(h) rationalizing pricing and promoting privatization and efficiency in the
sugar sector; and (i) restructuring and decentralizing the Ministry of
Agriculture with an eye to reducing superfluous employment and to having a
higher percentage of Ministry staff directly assisting farmers.
35.       To assist the Government in achieving these objectives, the Bank is
furthering the policy dialogue through sector work and project and policy
lending, and, in particular, through a series of proposed agricultural sector
adjustment loans. The basis of the first proposed ASL described in this report
is an agricultural sector policy statement that provides the framework for the
Government's policy with respect to the sector. This statement, prepared by
the Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of the Ministries of Finance,
Planning and Budget and Commerce, is in congruence with the policy objectives
of the Bank's dialogue with the Government. The statement is included in Annex
9 of this report.
36.       The Government has already made important reforms in many of the
areas outlined in its policy statement. Some of these reforms represent
radical departures from previous approaches to the sector and are
important--and politically difficult-steps in the right direction. The
proposed loan would support the Government in continuing to implement this
program. In the following paragraphs, the policy objectives, the progress in
achieving these objectives and the steps to be further supported by the
proposed loan are presented. Summary backgrounds to the policies are also
included to help set the context for the Government's reforms. A Policy Matrix
in Annex 5 provides an overview of the policy objectives and reforms. The
basis for the loan would be the Government's sectoral policy statement,
comprised of the text in Annex 9 and the Policy Matrix of Annex 5.



- 12 -
A. Reoval of Global Food Subsidies and
Tangetting oRemainlng SubsiMes
37.       Background.  Global subsidies on food products-that is, subsidies
available to all consumers, regardless of income--became particularly
pronounced during the early 1980s. While guaranteed producer prices were
raised to stimulate domestic production of basic foods, consumer food prices
were held down to avoid upward pressure on wages. The difference between
producer and consumer prices led to large food subsidies on such products as
maize (for tortilla production), wheat, sorghum, soybeans, sugar, rice, barley,
beans, cooking oil, powdered milk, and noodles. All subsidies,'except for that
on sugar, were administered by the state-owned National Basic Foods Company,
CONASUPO, through one of two mechanisms: either by selling the products at
reduced prices to processors (who themselves were subject to controlled prices
on outputs) or by reimbursing processors directly for costs not covered by
sales revenue. By 1983, global food subsidies exceeded 1% of GDP. With
spending of the poorest 30% of the population accounting for only 15% of
national food expenditures while that of the richest 30X accounted for about
50% of these expenditures, these global subsidies represented enormous
transfers to the upper income groups while benefiting much less the poorest in
Mexico's urban and rural areas.
38.       Achievements to Date.  As shown in Annex 6, Table 1, the real value
of food subsidies administered by CONASUPO has been reduced dramatically during
the past several years, reflecting the major changes that have been made to
reduce the drain of subsidies on the government budget. Global subsidies have
been phased out for all products except sugar and (in some years) maize 2/.
The real prices of many foodstuffs have more than doubled.  This major
reduction in CONASUPO subsidies already achieved, up front, constitutes a major
break with the past. Indeed, it is the single most significant subsidy
reduction effort undertaken by the de la Madrid Administration.  By the end of
1986, subsidies administered by CONASUPO were running at an annual rate of only
about 0.02% of GDP while the sugar subsidy was about 0.05% of GDP.
39.       Despite the fact that the poor gained relatively less than the rich
from global subsidies, the near elimination of food subsidies has harmed many
of the poor. As global food subsidies have been phased out since 1983,
increases in the prices of basic products have eroded the real purchasing power
of the poorest 20% of the population by about 6.5%. Aware of this effect on
the poors' consumption, the Government has recently instituted a system of food
coupons ("tortibonos") that allow recipients to purchase a fixed amount of
tortillas (approximately 2-3 kg per day per family) for less than 25% of the
market price. The Government is distributing coupons through CONASUPO's stores
(DICCONSA and LICONSA) in poor urban areas to families with total income less
than twice the legal minimum wage (or under US$5 per day). A small percentage
of the coupons (15%) are also currently being distributed through trade unions.
2/   The Government is currently studying how to revise its sugar pricing
policies (para 64) to reduce or eliminate subsidies in this area as well,
and conditionality contained in the ASL (para 68) will ensure that there
is no back-tracking in this area.



- 13 -
40.       Further Steps to be Taken under the Sector Loan.  Because of the
precarious nutritional status of the poor in Mexico (over 30X of preschoolers
suffer from serious malnutrition), the elimination of all global food subsidies
without a sufficiently funded, targetted program of food subsidies for the poor
would threaten to create a serious breach in the social safety net. If this
happened, it would cause great suffering, and could also undermine support for
the Government's program of reforms and put pressure either to reintroduce
global subsidies or to reduce prices to farmers. The Mexican Government has
already begun to address this issue through the use of food coupons for
tortillas and targetted distribution of reconstituted milk in urban areas.
However, these programs are limited, under-budgetted, and deficient in
controlling targetting and review of eligibility. Furthermore, targetted food
subsidies are largely not available to rural communities where the need is
greatest.
41.       The proposed ASL would support expanding the food coupon and milk
programs through increasing the number of families covered in urban areas and
developing selective price subsidies on certain basic foods in poor urban
neighborhoods and economically depressed rural areas.   It would also support
the development of other targetted food programs in poor areas.   It would seek
to minimize manipulation and diversion of the subsidies from the target
population through better supervision and monitoring of existing and future
programs. It would change the manner in which the food coupon program
operates, so that the coupons' purchase price would be tied to the market
price. It would support a food subsidy budget for targetted programs that
should largely compensate for the effects of the policy reforms on the very
poor. If targetted to the poorest 20% of the population (16 million persons),
a funding level of US$250 million would be approximately sufficient to raise
their purchasing power to the levels of 1983, before subsidies began to be
phased out. To the extent possible, the program would be designed to reach the
rural as well as the urban poor. Specifically, as a condition of second
tranche release, the Government would be required to demonstrate that in 1988
it had: (a) funded targetted food programs at a level sufficient to compensate
the poor for the effects of the elimination of global subsidies between 1983
and 1986 (US$250 million); (b) implemented administrative procedures to
minimize the diversion of subsidies from the target group; (c) expanded
targetted food subsidies to needy rural areas on a pilot basis; (d) r'vised the
criteria for eligibility in urban areas to correspond more closely with need
(e.g., using anthropometric measurements) and to recognize budget constraints;
(e) linked the price of tortilla food coupons to the price of tortillas so as
to make the subsidy transparent and controllable and maintain it in real terms
at a constant level per recipient to levels not higher than those existing as
of the date of effectiveness of the loan, so as to maximize the number of
beneficiaries; (f) studied expansion of other food programs to relieve the
impact of the adjustment program on the poor (study to be carried out under
terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank by May 31, 1988); and
(g) presented a satisfactory action plan for expansion of the program of
nutritional monitoring, including representative samples of both rural and
urban areas (See Annex 10 for more details). While this loan would not seek
commitments beyond the current administration's horizon (commitments that the
administration would be incapable of realistically making), it is envisioned,
based upon projected food prices, that the cost of these programs should not
exceed approximately 0.2% of current GDP (around US$335 million annually) by
1991.



- 14 -
B. Reducizg Govermuent Intervention in & tablishing Producer
and Consumer Prices
42.       Background.  For major agricultural products, both the prices paid by
consumers and those received by producers are set or determined by the
Government using direct consumer price controls, Government procurement from
producers at guaranteed priees, export and import controls., and (until very
recintly) direct subsidies to private and parastatal processors. The major
decisions related to pricing and trade controls are made by the Agricultural
Cabinet and by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI),
which has considerable discretion to decide what products are placed under
these controls, as well as what ceiling is set for each price and what quantity
is authorized for imports and exports of each product under controls. Based
upon projections of domestic supply for a product, the Government decides
simultaneously on domestic prices (at farmgate and levels further along in the
processing chain) for the product, anc how much should be imported or exported
to sustain that price. Importers of major basic commodities such as maize,
sorghum and oilseeds must also be processors and are given authorization to
import a fraction of the global quota corresponding to their share of purchases
of the total domestic production. Export controls are used to reinforce
consumer price controls that maintain domestic prices at levels below
international levels.
43.        The Government's most important objective in these interventions in
the market has been to keep consumer food prices low as part of its development
strategy of encouraging industrial development through low-cost labor. As a
secondary objective, throughout the 1970s and especially during the early
1980s, the Government attempted to raise rural incomes and achieve "food
sovereignty" by setting farmgate prices through Government procurement at
higher levels than those that would have prevailed given the low consumer food
prices. The losses occurring from this pricing policy were absorbed by direct
and indirect transfers from the Government to both private and parastatal
firms. However, in response to the current crisis, the Government has had to
phase out subsidies both to private and parastatal processors, so that the
current low levels of controlled retail prices are tending to depress producer
prices. Furthermore, restrictions on exports and imports are inhibiting
investments in agro-industry.
44.       Consumer Price Controls.  Before  the introduction of the temporary
Economic Solidarity Part, an estimated 48% of domestic production were under
some form of price control at the consumer level. Although price controls
covered a wide set of goods, food prices were generally the most strictly
controlled. Even though global food subsidies were largely eliminated, retail
prices for many foodstuffs remained below equivalent world levels due to these
price controls. Prices were controlled through four lists. The first list was
for products under strict price control. For these products, no price changes
were permitted without the approval of the SECOFI and adherence to the controls
was monitored by special inspectors. Twenty-one products, almost exclusively
food and agro-industrial products (representing approximately 15% of national
production value), were under strict price controls. Of these 21 products
(e.g., wheat flour, maize flour, edible oils, rice), 10 had export controls.
Of the 16 products where international price comparisons are meaningful, 13 had
prices below international levels. Survey data (1984-85) comparing



- 15 -
official prices with market prices in Mexico City show that price controls were
generally binding.
45.       The second list, introduced in October 1985, consisted of prices that
could be automatically adjusted up to 95% of the rate of inflation. Producers
wishing to raise prices more had to show that the increase was "justified" by
increased costs of production. This list consisted primarily of industrial
products, mainly consumer durables.
46.       A third list consisted of goods that required only ex ante
registration of price changes. Besides submitting a statement of cost changes,
no other more formal justification of price changes was required. For goods on
the fourth list, the only requirement was that the seller notify SECOFI within
ten days after increasing prices.
47.       Under the temporary Economic Solidarity Pact, the strict control list
has been extended to all basic commodities as part of the anti-inflationary
strategy for 1988. These controls will expire at the end of 1988. The
intention of the Government is to return to the previous system of controls at
the expiration of the Pact and then to gradually phase out controls in the long
run.
48.       Farmgate Prices.  On the producer side, the Government has in the
past set guarantee or minimum prices for 13 crops, including basic food grains,
major animal feeds and oilseeds, and actual prices received by farmers have
tended to follow guarantee prices closely.  These guarantee prices are
administered by CONASUPO. Sugar prices are also set by the Government but not
administered by CONASUPO, and are currently above international levels. The
Government currently sets guarantee prices for 12 crops, having stopped setting
a specific price for feed barley since it is only a by-product of malt barley.
These prices are intended to cover a weighted average of production costs for a
variety of representative technologies and areas. International prices are
intended to serve only as a reference. Because production costs vary widely in
Mexico, the setting of guarantee prices supposedly based on costs of production
in reality has been a politic4l process, a struggle between farmer interests on
one hand and urban and agro-industrial interests on the other, with the
Ministries of Finance (SHCP) and of Planning and Budget (SPP) attempting to
minimize the consequences of these deliberations on the Government's budget.
As a consequence, international prices, representing the opportunity costs of
domestic procurement to processors, have historically been important criteria
in setting prices for only some crops, such as soybeans, for which imports and
agro-industrial interests are large.
49.       More generally, the levels of producer prices relative to
international orices have varied across time and crops (Annex 6, Graphs 2-7),
depending on the state of the exchange rate (i.e., under- or over-valued), the
Government's priorities, and its fiscal ability to support a differential
between low consumer and high producer prices. The Government's inability to
subsidize this differential caused farmgate prices to fall significantly in
1986, s0 that the ratio of producer to international prices were at the lowest
levels of recent history: 1.01 for maize, 0.85 for wheat, 0.75 for rice and
0.75 for soybeans (Annex 6, Tables 3 and 4). Since that time, some prices have
increased substantially relative to international prices with others lagging
stiln further behind, creating great dispersion among crops. In recent periods



- 16 -
of high inflation, the guarantee price, which is maintained constant in nominal
terms over a growing season, is steadily eroded in real terms until it is
increased for the following season.
50.       Producer prices are set at the same level in all parts of Mexico,
effectively penalizing production in areas close to consumption centers (which
in a free market would tend to have higher prices because of the low cost of
transporting the product to market) and subsidizing production in areas far
away. This pan-territorial pricing has also encouraged the location of
agro-industry in the consuming, rather than producing areas. Furthermore,
while prices are occasionally adjusted (generally semi-annually), the
adjustments are not based on economic criteria such as the cost of storing the
crop, and are far too infrequent in a period of rapid inflation. Thus, over
the course of the year, the real support price steadily falls for a number of
months due to inflation, then makes a large discrete jump when a new
procurement price is announced. This pan-seasonal pricing distorts production
decisions and makes storage unprofitable. As a consequence, storage remains
primarily in the hands of the public sector.
51.       Producer prices for fruits and vegetables, coffee, cotton and tobacco
are not determined by the Government. Because of dependence on export markets,
they are closely aligned with international prices, and thus their production
is strongly influenced by exchange rate policies and international market
forces.
52.       Producer prices for other products, including sugarcane, are subject
to Government intervention to varying degrees. For example, producer prices
for sugar are set by the SUCP in consultation with the public and private
sector industry.
53.       Achievements to Date.  With regard to consumer price controls, prior
to the Economic Solidarity Pact the Government had been reducing the number of
goods under price control. Table 2 in Annex 6 gives a breakdown of bow the
production coverage has shifted from 55Z in December 1982 to 48Z in September
1986. With regard to producer prices the Government has pledged, as part of
its Economic Solidarity Pact, to set all crop guarantee prices on March 1,
1988, at their average levels (in real terms) for 1987, and then to adjust them
monthly at the rate of inflation. This will avoid the problem of continual
intrayear erosion mentioned above.
54.       Further Steps to be Taken under the Sector Loan.  The ASL tackles
pricing issues in several ways. First, on the producer side, it reinforces the
Government's commitment under the Economic Solidarity Pact to maintain
guarantee prices during 1988 at real 1987 levels throughout the year. For 1989
the Government will create a price band around international price levels
(90-125X) for each crop with a ceiling as well as a floor, for all guarantee
prices administered by CONASUPO except maize and beans. This would be a
condition of second tranche release. The price band is designed with an upper
limit of 125% of international prices to give the Government flexibility to
raise agricultural prices to levels that would redress any biases in the
industrial-agricultural terms of trade that might be created by use of the 20X
maximum tariff to protect the industrial sector. International prices would be
adjusted for transport costs, quality differentials and processing margins.



- 17 -
Mexican maize prices are currently well above international maize prices. But
Mexico produces largely white food-quality maize while international trade is
largely in yellow feed-quality maize, and the world market for white maize is
poorly developed. Yellow maize is only an imperfect substitute for white maize
and price comparisons are therefore not straightforward. For beans, it is even
more difficult to make meaningful comparisons between domestic and
international prices as beans are a heterogeneous commodity and Mexico
possesses some monopoly power in a very thin international market. 3/ At a
time when the previously highly-protected industrial sector has seen its
pricing brought more closely in line with international levels, the producer
price conditions of the loan will ensure that internal industrial-agricultural
terms of trade are close to international levels, furthering the Government's
objectives of making the Mexican economy efficient and competitive in world
markets.
55.       The loan would also require a thorough review of the guarantee price
system. This review would include sections aimed at determining which of the 12
crops that currently have guarantee prices should continue in the system, how
prices could be adjusted over time and geographical area to simulate pricing
patterns in a free market, and how the price baud system established under the
loan can be fine-tuned. So that work can begin quickly, agreement on the terms
of reference for the studies would be reached as a condition of disbursements
exceeding US$25 million of the first tranche, with satisfactory completion of
the studies and discussion of the results being a condition of second tranche
release. These results will then be available to the Government and the Bank
to form the basis of future dialogue on agricultural pricing policy.
56.       With respect to food prices at the consumer level, the anti-inflation
measures included in the Economic Solidarity Pact make it infeasible to seek
further liberalization of consumer price controls at this time. However, the
loan's conditionality on producer prices and on limits to the CONASUPO budget
available for general food subsidies does ensure that food prices will not be
kept artificially low. As described above, producer prices will be linked to
international prices. Transfers to CONASUPO to cover operating losses will be
specifically limited in 1988 and 1989 to their budgetted 1988 levels (para
66). Since CONASUPO's ability to borrow from external sources is severely
circumscribed by previous agreement with the Government, the limit on operating
losses means that it would be unable to finance the global food subsidies
through artificially low consumer prices, as was done in the past. The loan
also specifically requires that no global food subsidies be introduced through
institutions other than CONASUPO (para 66). Thus, the loan ensures that
consumer food prices, although still formally under control, will move in line
with producer prices.
C. Red!ucIn the Role of Parastatals in Agricultural
NrIetriD8 Storage and Processing
57.       Background.  The Government's involvement in agricultural marketing,
storage, sad processing is mainly through CONASUPO, some parastatals controlled
by the Ministry of Agriculture (SARR) and the public sugar company, AZUCAR,
S.A. de C.V. Although some of the parastatals are well-managed and operated,
3/   How to use international prices as a yardstick to domestic price policy is
therefore an issue for further study.



- 18 -
many of these enterprises have suffered financially from restrictive pricing
and subsidy policies and operationally from bureaucratic and political burden
while inhibiting effective and flexible allocation of resources, including
private investment.
58.       CONASUPO and its affiliates (collectively referred to here as
"CONASUP0") have acted as the Government's agents for exercising control over
the market for basic food products, other than sugar. They procure crops from
farmers ait prices set by the Government, process some of the crops into food
products, and sell them to consumers, also at Government-established prices.
In the period before subsidies were eliminated, that is, when consumer prices
were set far below producer prices and costs of processing and distribution,
CONASUPO's role as purchaser, processor, and distributor entailed significant
losses. It incurred further losses from other sources as well. First, it sold
some crops it had procured to processors at subsidized prices. Second, it paid
subsidies to processors who procured directly from farmers to reimburse them
for losses they would otherwise incur because of Government policies that kept
the price of their raw material high relative to the price of their finished
product. And finally, CONASUPO had sole authority to import basic food
products, for which it had to pay international prices, while selling them at
much lower prices domestically. Through its role as a monopoly importer, it
incurred a large dollar-denominated debt in the early 1980s, and this debt
becrme increasingly burdensome as rapid devaluations created sizeable exchange
rate losses.
59.       As CONASUPO's role in the economy grew and its debt mounted, the
Government was forced to increase its fiscal transfers to the parastatal.
These rose (in constant 1980 pesos) Crom 9.9 billion (0.3% of GDP) in 1977 to
54.6 billion (1.21% of GDP) in 1984, before being reduced to 32.4 billion
(0.74% of GDP) in 1986. This need for ever-increasing transfers was a key
factor in the Government's decision to impose limits on CONASUPO's role in the
economy.
60.       Besides CONASUPO, forty parastatals under the control of SARH are
involved in production, marketing and processing of coffee, tobacco, forestry
and wood products, animal feed, cotton, seeds, vegetable oils, and fruit.
Fiscal transfers to these companies in 1986 were under US$50 million (less than
0.02% of GDP).
61.       Another significant parastatal involvement in agriculture is in the
sugar sector. Azucar, S.A. de C.V. is the state-owaed enterprise responsible
for operation of 52 of the country's 70 sugar mills and 75% of production. It
is heavily supported by Government transfers; in 1985 the budgeted transfer was
107.2 billion pesos (about US$200 million, or 0.05% of GDP).
62.       Achievements to Date.  The Government has recently taken major steps
to restructure CONASUPO, as outlined in the agreement ("convenio") between
CONASUPO and the Government concluded April 15, 1986. Through this and
subsequent agreements, the Federal Government assumed over 80% of CONASUPO's
accumulated debt, equalling US$1.8 billion. CONASUPO in return promised to
abide strictly by the budget approved by the Chamber of Deputies and to make
basic structural changes in its operations, including: (a) reducing its level
of intervention in the market for basic crops to that necessary for the



- 19 -
enforcement of price regulations, while promoting private sector participation;
(b) eliminating subsidies by closing the differential between purchase and sale
prices; (c) reorganizing CONASUPO itself and merging some aifiliates to reduce
costs and increase efficiency; (d) eliminating sales on credit; and
(e) establishing an information system to permit more careful monitoring of
operations and finances. In addition to the internal financial and structural
changes outlined in the agreement, the role of CONASUPO in importing has been
altered significantly (para 74).
63.       Some progress has also been made with respect to SARH's parastatals.
Since 1985, the number of public sector bodies under the control of SARH has
been reduced. From a total of 89 entities, 31 non-operating entities had been
liquidated by the end of 1986, including 18 companies with a majority state
share-holding, 3 with a minority holding and 10 trust funds.
64.       Progress that promises to be significant has also been achieved with
respect to the sugar sector. In August 1985, an agreement was signed between
the Federal Government, Financiera Nacional Azucarera, and Azucar, S.A. de
C.V. The agreement specifies a number of important steps that will be taken to
strengthen the operations and improve the financial status of the sugar
industry. The rationalization of capacity, including the closure of high-cost
mills, the reduction of staffing levels, the improvement of the cane purchasing
systems, and the restructuring of pricing policy are identified as essential
steps to allow the efficient operation of the industry on a self-sustaining
basis.
65.       Progress has already been made towards a sounder sugar sub-sector.
Staff reductions of 2,800 have been made, mainly in administrative areas. Four
mills have closed since 1986. The cane planting program has been marginally
reduced, in order to help move production into line with consumption, but there
has been no progress on efforts to change the method of cane purchase to one
based on cane quality.
66.       Further Steps to be Taken under the Sector Loan.  The proposed ASL
-ould sustain these reforms.  Specifically, as a condition of second tranche
release, the Government would limit fiscal transfers to CONASUPO (other than
for debt service, investment, the food stamp program, LICONSA's milk program,
or other targetted subsidies) to less than US$85 million in 1988 and 1989.
(These transfers were estimated to have been about US$215 million in 1987).
The loan would also require, as a condition of second tranche release, that no
global food subsidies be introduced through institutions other than CONASUPO.
In addition, as a condition of second tranche release CONASUPO would close or
move to poor neighborhoods 500 major retail outlets of CONASUPO's retail
affiliate, DICCONSA, that are now in middle or high income urban areas, and
would liquidate CONASUPO's wheat processing affiliate, TRICONSA, which controls
about 5% of the market in Mexico City.
67.       With respect to the parastatals in the agricultural sector, a
condition of second tranche release would be satisfactory progress in the sale
or closure of 15 parastatals. The 15 companies represent 2.6% of total
parastatal budget and 0.8% of fiscal transfers to such public companies in the
agricultural sector. As such, they are not significant entities in terms of
budgetary allocations but represent a symbolically important additional step in



- 20 -
the privatization and liquidation of sectoral parastatals. The remaining
parastatals, in particular INMECAFE, TABAMEX, ALBAKEX, ALGODONERA and PRONASE,
but also including a number of other entities that are recipients of fiscal
transfers, would need to be addressed in subsequent loans.
68.       With respect to the sugar sub-sector, a condition of second tranche
release would be satisfactory progress in the closure or sale of an additional
2 mills. (Four mills have been closed already).   A further condition of second
tranche release would be discussion with the Bank of the results of a study to
design a rational policy of pricing for sugar cane and for sugar at the factory
and consumer stages. The policy would aim at reducing subsidies and would
eventually allow financial self-sufficiency of efficient mills and companies,
while taking into account international measures of efficiency. Draft terms of
reference for this study are included in Annex 8.
D. Ptogres Toward Aaricd tural Trade Liberalization
69.       Background.  Historically, the Government has used trade policy to
reinforce internal policies, such as consumer price controls. For basic
imported foods, including maize, wheat, sorghum, beans, rice, oilseeds,
soybeans, barley, and powdered milk, the state exercised control by giving
CONASUPO exclusive importation rights. For a few exports as well (notably
coffee and sugar), parastatals have monopolized foreign trade. For other
products, the Government has controlled foreign trade indirectly, by the use of
quotas, licensing requirements, and tariffs.
70.       Imports of almost all major agricultural commodities and exports of
some commodities are subject to quotas. For basic grains and oilseeds, import
quotas are set every six months by estimating the size of the coming domestic
harvest and the amount of imports that will be necessary to satisfy domestic
demand.
71.       Imports and exports of all goods with quotas, and many other goods as
well, can be carried out only with licenses issued by SECOFI. Import licenses
are required for products that comprise over 86% of agricultural production and
22Z of livestock production. In the GATT negotiations, the Mexican Government
stated explicitly that it had no intention of eliminating licensing
requirements for its major agricultural imports. Exportation of some products
(including cattle, shrimp, coffee, and a number of grains and vegetables)
require licenses from both SECOFI and some other ministry, such as the
Secretary of State.
72.       Most agro-industrial and many agricultural product categories are
subject to import duties, in some cases in addition to licensing requirements.
Basic food imports are generally free of tariffs, being regulated by quotas and
licensing. Although many products are subject to export controls, export
duties are few. They include a 0% to 302 tax on coffee exports (depending on
the international price) and a tax of 0.5% on exports of cotton lint.
73.       Achievements to Date.   Agricultural trade liberalization in Mexico
is complicated by the following: (a) effective rates of protection for many
agricultural and agro-industrial products appear to be negative, with
agriculture being taxed relative to international prices; (b) a system of



- 21 -
stable guaranteed prices requires some level of variable protection since
international prices fluctuate widely; and (c) the internal terms of trade have
historically been biassed against agriculture, with protection substantial for
industrial products.
74.       Nevertheless, the Government has made major progress on trade
liberalisation on several fronts. Beginning at the end of 1984, it eliminated
CONASUPO's import monopoly on all goods except powdered milk. The private
sector has responded, and the division between private and public imports in
1986 is estimated by CONASUPO to be as follows:
1986 Estimated Imports
(In '000 tons)
CONASUPO             PRIVATE SECTOR
Maize                     1,800                       700
Wheat                       0                          0
Sorghum                    750                       900
Beans                       200                       0
Rice                        0                          0
Oilseeds                   0                       2,561
Barley                     0                          0
Milk Powder                 122                        0
Mexico has also reduced tariffs on at least 66 categories, mainly on items not
produced in Mexico or in shortage-seeds, milk, fats, raw skins and hides.
With support from the Bank's TPLs, the maximum tariff rate has been reduced
from 100% to 20%. The Government has also eliminated the use of official
reference prices, which were maintaIned at artificially high level in order to
indirectly tax imports at rates above official tariff levels. In their place,
the Government is substituting a modern system of protection against dumped
goods. Under TPL I, the Government reduced coverage of licensing requirements
by 5% of national production, of which 2.82% came from agricultural or
agro-industrial product categories.   Furthermore, the list of items for which
applications for import licenses are automatically denied, which formerly
included a number of agricultural commodities, has been eliminated completely.
Finally, export licensing requirements have been eliminated for wheat, some
meats, and some other agricultural commodities.
75.    Licensing has been an important bureaucratic impediment to free entry of
firms into importing and to the establishment of agro-industries that require
imported inputs. Also, licensing provides the potential for the imposition of
high and non-transparent levels of protection. The Bank, therefore, has
continued to support the Government's program of steady reduction in coverage
under these restrictions. As part of the TPLII, the Government has agreed to
reduce the coverage of licensing requirements for both agricultural and
manufactured goods from coverage of 49.8% of national production (after the
second tranche of TPLI in November of 1986) to 43.1%. Of this reduction,
approximately 5% of national production coverage is likely to come from
agricultural and agro-industrial product categories.



- 22 -
76.       Further Steps Sought under the Sector Loan.  The proposed ASL would
support a continuation of this liberalization process. First, as a condition
of second tranche release, approximately 5X of national production in
agricultural and agro-industrial product categories would be freed from import
licensing requirements. (This 5 would also be counted toward the
liberalization requirements of TPLII). This will reduce the production
coverage of quantitative restrictions from 54Z before TPLII, to 39% of
production in these sectors. As shown in Annex 6, Table 5, this could be
achieved by elimination of licensing for agro-industrial products or by a
combination of reduction in liceusing for agro-industrial products and
agricultural goods.4/ Second, for some basic grains, beans and oilseeds 'that
would most likely remain under licensing, a study would be conducted that would
address the administrative feasibility of implementing a variable tariff for
these commodities. (Annex 8 contains draft terms of reference for this study
and other studies on pricing issues required under the loan.) It would also
determine how to implement transparent and non-arbitrary anti-dumping
regulations for agricultural commodities. The study would be confined to
agricultural commodities, which receive special treatment under GATT.
Satisfactory completion of these studies and discussion of the results with the
Bank is a condition of second tranche release. Removal of export controls on
quality cuts of beef and high quality rice (represerting less than 0.8% of
national production value) would be a condition of disbursements exceeding
US$25 million of the first tranche. Fruits and vegetables have been one of the
most dynamic export-oriented agricultural subsectors in Mexico, and have
responded strongly to trade liberalization. The Government's intervention in
the sector has been minimal compared with other sectors, though it has imposed
selective export restrictions, either as a means of setting quality standards
for exports or to control domestic supply (as in the case of chilies). The
system of export control is now essentially self-regulated by
producer-exporters. The ASL would ensure continuation of this status by
requiring as a condition of second tranche release that the Government refrain
from controlling exports while encouraging farmer organizations to set quality
standards for exports.
S. Reducisg Subsidies on Agricultural Inputs
77.       Background.  As noted before, agricultural prices have been
maintained at low levels as part of the Government's industrial development
policy. To counterbalance this discrimination against agriculture,
the Government has resorted to compensating input subsidies. Almost all inputs
to agricultural production-including fertilizer, fuel, credit, water, and crop
insurance--are subsidized by the Government.
78.       The most important subsidies-fertilizer, credit and water--have
distorted resource use and have had detrimental effects on the institutions
supporting agriculture, in addition to burdening the fiscal situation. The
fertilizer subsidy has promoted use of inappropriate levels and types of
fertilizer while supporting an inefficient and ponderous parastatal, FERTIMEX.
4/   Table 6 of Annex 6 displays the specific product groups tentatively
proposed for liberalization by SECOFI in discussions regarding two
possible scenarios under the TPLII. The percentage of agricultural
production that will be removed from quantitative restrictions has been
discussed extensively by missions for both the proposed ASL and the
TPLII.



- 33 -
FRTIMEX received a direct transfer from the federal government in 1985 equal
to almost 0.3S of GDP, and an indirect transfer of almost 0.12 of GDP in the
form of low ammonia prices. The subsidy received by farmers, measured by the
difference between world prices and the prices paid by farmers was about 0.22
of GDP as of the end of 1986. The credit subsidy, which was around 0.7Z of GDP
in 1985, has over-capitalized some aspects of agriculture while Inhibiting the
building of self-sustainable financial intermediaries. The water subsidy,
equal to around 0.05S of GDP In 1981, has contributed to salinity problem and
the raising of the water table in the commercial northern irrigated areas.
Lack of sufficient funds for operation and maintenance (in part caused by
inadequate cost recovery) has also contributed to a deterioration of irrigation
canals and drains.
79.       The proposed Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan is seeking
institutional reforms and further reductions in input subsidies for
the fertilizer sector. Specifically, it seeks agreement on a program
and timetable to liberalize fertilizer distribution and to raise prices to
farmers toward international equivalent prices by reducing fiscal transfers (so
as to achieve financial self-sufficiency of FERTINEX), and by requiring that
FERTDMEX pay for ammonia a price that would cover the costs of ammonia
production, with natural gas valued at its domestic price to users. (FERTIMEX
already pays international prices for two out of the three primary raw
materials used -- phosphate rock and sulphur.) Furthermore, the loan would
ensure that fertilizer could continue to be imported by anyone without
non-tariff restrictions. These important adjustments would ensure that
efficiency objectives are furthered, whilst eliminating the sector's huge
fiscal subsidy. Based on the phasing in of ammonia price increases, the
Government would have to increase fertilizer prices by an estimated 12.31
per year in real dollar terms for 5 years.   The proposed ASL is integrally
linked to the Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan, since the increases in
fertilizer price envisioned under the latter must be accompanied by the
increases in crop prices that are a condition of the former. Otherwise, the
fertilizer price rise could have a detrimental impact on agriculture.
80.       Achievements to Date.  Specific subsidies for various inputs that
have been reduced are outlined below:
(a) Fertilizer. Prices of fertilizers are fixed by SHCP with the
approval of the Economic Cabinet. In 1986, the ex-factory equivalent
fertilizer prices for nitrogen and phosphate were about 251 of border
prices.5/ These prices at the railhead (includLng transportation
and distribution) were about 502 of the equivalent border prices of
nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer (respectively accounting for 71%
and 231 of total nutrient use). The subsidy on potassic fertilizer,
accounting for the remaining 62 of total use, has now been
eliminated. With respect to nitrogen and phosphatic fertilizer, in
5/ The price of fertilizer is set at the same level, whether the buyer picks
it up at the factory or has it delivered to the railbead near its final
destination. For this reason, virtually no fertilizer is sold at the
factory.  The "ex-factory equivalent" price was derived by subtracting
approximate distribution costs from the railhead price.



- 24-
:WIte of d&c,aiAv intentions, the Government has not been able to
close the gap significantly between domestic and international prices
and has, at best, only maintained domestic prices in real terms.
(b) Interest Rates. Significant adjustments are being made to interest
rates. In 19U84, the Bank and the Government of Mexico negotiated a
General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), in which the Government
agreed to raise lending rates In relation to the Average Cost of
Funds (ACF) and make them variable., The ACF was chosen as a
benchmark rate because It is the closest proxy for an index of a
market borrowing rate that is readily available In the heavily
regulated environment in Mexico. While the Government sets the rates
that determine the ACF, Its freedom to manipulate the rate is tightly
constrained by the ease with which capital can be taken out of the
country If rates paid to savers move out of line with international
market rates. Thus, the ACF generally approximates these rates
(adjusted for exchange rate movements) and is positive in real
terms. GIRA requires semi-annual adjustments relative to a variable
ACF.
(c) Irrigation Water Charges. The percentage of irrigation operation and
maintenance costs covered by water charges has increased on a
national basis from about 12X in 1982 to 36% in 1986. The stated
goal of the Government is that irrigation charges eventually cover
all operation and maintenance costs in commercial areas and 602 of
such costs in marginal areas. Recent legislation has been passed
that provides the legal basis for achieving these objectives but
progress in implementing the goal has been slow.
81.       Further Steps to be Taken under the Sector Adjustment Loan.  Because
of their large size, high visibility, and political sensitivity, input
subsidies have been, and will continue to be, difficult to deal with.
Nonetheless, reform in this area mus"t be an important component of a program to
improve productive efficiency. For water charges, the ASL would require as a
condition of second tranche release a satisfactory plan of action (based on a
study under the loan) to implement at the district level the Government's
program for 100% recovery of operation and maintenance costs in commercial and
export-oriented areas and 602 in marginal production areas except under any
specific circumstances provided under Mexican law. This plan would form the
basis for further dialogue on operation and maintenance cost recovery issues.
Issues of capital cost recovery will be dealt with through the proposed
Northwest Irrigation Project and future irrigation projects.
P. A Satisfactory Public Iowestme_t Program in Asriculture
82.       Background.  Public investment in agriculture and rural
development'/ in Mexico has been falling as the result of current economic
6/   Public investments in agriculture and rural development include rural
roads, water systems for urban areas, potable water, capital expenditures
for universities and research, etc., besides more directly productive
investments such as in irrigation works. About 40% of the public
investments directly administered by SARR for the sector fall into the
directly productive category.



- 25 -
difficulties. After averaging about 15 percent of total public investment
during the 1970-1982 period, agriculture's share of public investment in 1987
came to only about 12% (about 0.7% of GDP). The budget for agricultural public
investment in 1988 is budgetted at about US$331 million (only about 60X of its
1986 level) excluding an allocation of US$104 million from the growth
contingency (Annex 11).
83.       Within the sector, a major shift has occurred as to who executes
public investment. In the past, SARH undertook the bulk of investment, mainly
in an ambitious program of irrigation works. More recently, however, a growing
share of agricultural public investment has been carried out by the states In
keeping with a federal government decision to "divest" increasing power and
responsibility for expenditures to the states. The SPP finances these
state-executed agricultural investments under what is, in effect, a revenue
sharing scheme, but it otherwise exercises very little control over
state-executed projects. About half of Mexico's agricultural public investment
is federally-executed-by SARR-with the other half in the hands of state
governments.
84.       Achievements to Date.  Because of the strict budgetary restraints,
SARK has devoted priority to finishing projects nearing completion; stopping
long gestation, lower-return large scale projects in their early stages; and
emphasizing small-scale projects that would yield immediate benefits or
promote exports. SARH is now carefully planning its investments and subjects
all its projects to a rigorous cost-benefit analysis. In the process, it has
made major headway in cleaning up its portfolio. In 1987, only 6% of SARH
projects were uneconomic versus 26% in 1986. None of the uneconomic projects
could be classified as "white elephants", either by size (the largest
constituted less than 2% of total SARH investment costs) or by economic return
(only 0.8% of investment c8sts had a benefit-cost ratio of less than 0.8).
SARK's 1987 investment portfolio for irrigation, drainage, and rehabilitation
had an estimated average benefit-cost ratio of 1.9 (based upon a 12%
opportunity cost for capital) and with a net present value of over
US$200 million. SARH's 1988 investment budget has been reviewed and together
with funds from the Growth Facility of the international financial package
(Annex 11), is satisfactory to the Bank in both quality of projects and total
funding with sufficient funding for Bank-financed projects.
85.       The qdality of state-executed agricultural public investment is
much less clear. SPP requires that each project be analyzed on an economic
and/or social cost-benefit basis at the state level. Because these
investments are carried out by states and most of the projects are scattered
and small, it is virtually impossible for the Bank to evaluate the portfolio
systematically. The Bank's experience-through the PIDER projects where an
ex-post analysis revealed that Bank-financed stated-executed investments had an
economic rate of return of 27%--suggests that many of these investments are
sound. However, this sample is too small to conclude that state-executed
agricultural investments on a country-wide basis are satisfactory.
86.       Furtbhr Steps to be Taken under the Sector Loan. Since the 1988
investment budget has already been reviewed and deemed satisfactory to the
Bank, the ASL would concentrate on the 1989 budget. Although the Government



- 26 -
cannot make unequivocal commitments regarding a future budget, which may be
changed by Congress, it has agreed as a condition of second tranche release
to do the following. First, in order to revise the alarming decline in the
agricultural investment program since 1986, the Government will submit a 1989
budget request to Congress that would increase SARH's investment budget by at
least US$200 million in real terms over the base 1988 level of US$331
million. (The budget request will include funding for the planned Northwest
Irrigation Project to be financed partially by the Bank.) Second, Government
will establish procedures to solve a problem that has arisen in the past
because of the fungibility of funds within the budget of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Because of this fungibility under an overall budget ceiling,
the Ministry can reallocate funds to projects which receive no external
funding and therefore has little incentive to execute the program supported
by external funds. The budgetting procedures to be developed by the
Government under this loan will create the proper incentives for SARH to
execute externally-funded projects.
G. Decentralization and Reduction of Staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
87.       Background.  The Ministry of Agriculture (SARH), has been
characterized as over-staffed, too bureaucratic, overly politicized, and
insufficiently dispersed throughout the country. As of 1982, SARH employed
about 152,000 people, with about 33,000 (21.5%) of them in the capital.
Agencies and departments dealing with closely related areas, such as
agriculture, livestock, and forestry, were separated and uncoordinated.
Because so much ministerial authority was concentrated in Mexico City,
officials at the local level were unable to make even simple decisions or to
process straightforward administrative requests from primary producers or
agro-industry. One of the principal objectives of the current Minister of
Agriculture has been to rectify this situation.
88.       Achievements to Date.  SARH has made significant progress in
meeting its goals. Some of the more important steps taken already include
the following: (a) in spite of the political cost of reducing staff in a
period of such high unemployment, SARH cut its payroll from 152,000 in 1982
to about 114,000 in 1988; (b) remaining staff have been and are being
decentralized. Staff in Mexico City was reduced from about 33,000 (21.5% of
all employees) to about 18,000 (13.5%) between 1982 and the end of 1985;
(c) fourteen agricultural parastatals are being moved out of Mexico City. In
this process, about one-third of their work-force will be eliminated; (d) an
internal reorganization in SARH has eliminated some of the bureaucratic
overlap and lack of coordination among departments. In the process, several
commissions that are no longer needed have been eliminated; (e) authority to
handle 231 routine procedural requests from producers and agro-industry has
been delegated to the local level. In some cases, this has reduced the
required processing time from 6 months to 15 days. Routine administrative
and budgetary decision-making has also been delegated to the local level; and
(f) a program has been started to improve the training of extension workers.
Furthermore, extension and research are now multidisciplinary in their
approach and extension staff operate a system of routine visits with
technical support from district level subject matter specialists. The focus



- 27 -
is on rural development and the administrative elements are similar to the
training and visit system.
89.       Further Steps to be Taken under the Sector Adjustment Loan.  After
SARH's continuous progress throughout the period of appraisal and negotiation
of the ASL, it provided to the Bank at negotiations budget and other
information indicating that its objectives in decentralizing, restructuring,
and streamlining have been achieved. Combined with the planned restoration
of the agricultural investment budget, a highly desirable shift will also
occur in the balance of recurrent versus investment expenditures.
PART IV - HISTORY AND PROCEDURES OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History
90.       As described more fully in previous paragraphs, the Government over
the last several years has acted to loosen its control over the economy, to
increase its integration into the world economy and encourage the private
sector to assume an increasingly important role. These reforms have been
politically difficult for the Government and have imposed considerable costs
on certain segments of the population, while improving prospects for future
growth. Similar reforms planned for the future promise similar costs but
long-term benefits for the economy at large. Consequently, to assist in the
reform process, the Government requested that the Bank provide financial and
technical support for the structural adjustments in agriculture and other
sectors. The Bank responded by sending a pre-appraisal mission for the
proposed Agricultural Sector Loan in October and November 1986, followed by
an appraisal mission in April and May 1987. Negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. in December 1987 and February 1988, with the Mexican
delegation led by Jorge Delgado. The proposed loan is envisioned as the
first of several agricultural sector adjustment loans that will support a
continuing series of reforms in the sector, some of which would be based on
the results of studies supported under this loan.
B. The Borrower
91.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C. (NAFIN). NAPIN has also been the borrower for other loans to the
agriculture sector, the most recent of which was the Agricultural Extension
Project (Ln. 2859).
C. Disbursesent, Procurement, Administration and Auditing
92.       The proposed ASL would disburse quickly, financing general
imports. The ASL would be disbursed in two tranches: the first of US$100
million and the second of US$200 million. Financing would be retroactive to
November 22, 1987 with a cap of US$60 million. The first tranche would



- 28 -
become available upon effectiveness 7/, and the second upon fulfillment of
specific conditions related to each of the policy areas described in Part
II1. If these latter conditions remain unfulfilled by March 31, 1989, the
second tranche will be cancelled, unless otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
93.       The proceeds of the ASL would be used to reimburse lOOZ of the
foreign exchange cost of eligible general imports, with preference given to
agricultural inputs, including agricultural chemicals, pesticides (with a
negative list excluding certain pesticides according to Bank guidelines),
seeds, machinery, agro-industrial inputs, and storage and transport
equipment. Ineligible imports include goods financed from other official
multilateral or bilateral sources, goods intended for military or
paramilitary use, goods subject to quantitative restrictions, and certain
luxury goods.   Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Contracts under US$5 million each would be awarded on the basis
of the normal procurement practices of the purchaser. Contracts for other
goods and services, estimated to cost US$5 million or more each, will be
procured through international competitivea bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
94.       NAPIN would be responsible for maintaining loan accounts and for
the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications. In accordance
with disbursement procedures adopted under the First Trade Policy Loan,
disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of a summary
from the Banco de Mexico detailing individual transactions in each relevant
period in respect of eligible imports, together with a certification of
payments of the amounts involved, and of their eligibility under the loan.
Applications for withdrawals would be consolidated and submitted in amounts
not less than US$1 million. The disbursement procedures would be coordinated
with that of the Trade Policy Loan II and the proposed Fertilizer Sector
Adjustment Loan to ensure that these loans do not disburse against the same
transactions.
95.       Audits of the supporting documentation for the statements of
expenditure used for disbursements will be carried out annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
D. Effectiveness and Tranche Release
96.       The loan would be declared effective when the Mexican Government
provides to the Bank evidence that its macroeconomic policy framework is
consistent with the agricultural sector adjustment program and completes the
appropriate contractual arrangements with NAFIN. The second tranche of the
ASL would be conditional upon satisfactory fulfillment of the conditions in
each of the policy areas described above and in Annex 5, and upon
satisfactory progress in carrying out the macroeconomic program supportive of
7/   Certain conditions of the loan that are very close to fulfillment (removal
of export controls on quality cuts of beef and high quality rice) or are
necessary in order to assure successful completion of the loan (agreement
on terms of reference for studies and provision for procedures to
coordinate disbursement) have been designated as conditions of
disbursements exceeding US$25 million of the first tranche.



-29-
agricultural growth. It is anticipated that this would be completed by March
31, 1989.
B. Itowinand  REs
97.       The Bank will monitor the Government's progress in implementing its
reform program through regular supervision and exchange of views with the
borrower and the Government covering both policy instruments and performance
:argets in each of the policy areas touched by the proposed loan. NAFIN will
prepare and submit every three months to the Bank a report on progress in
implementing the loan and trends in the agricultural sector including
domestic and cif and fob prices of both inputs and outputs and policy actions
implemented by the Government. An exchange of views with the Government in
connection with the release of the second tranche would take place by January
1989. Draft Terms of Reference for studies that must be completed and
discussed before disbursements exceeding US$25 million of the first tranche
(sugar pricing, variable tariffs, and territorial and seasonal pricing
issues) are attached to this report as Annex 8.
F. Benefits and Risks
98.       The benefits of the reform program would consist of rising
productivity and allocative efficiency in both agriculture and agro-industry,
as adjustments in pricing make the incentive structure correspond more
closely to economic opportunity costs.   In addition, fiscal savings to the
Mexican Government would be substantial while remaining subsidies would be
more selective and targetted to the poor. Changes in the Government's fiscal
outlays would come from several sources: the decreased subsidies on inputs
(mainly fertilizer, paras 77-81), the changes in consumer subsidies (paras
37-41), the reduction of CONASUPO's operating losses (paras 57-68), and the
changes in sugar pricing and subsidy policy (paras 57-68). The net effect of
all of these would be an annual fiscal cost reduction of between US$1 billion
and US$1.2 billion, depending on the year of the program (see Annex 7). The
loan would also result in studies that would be useful to the Government in
designing a program of further reforms, as well as to the Bank in advancing
its dialogue with the Government on agricultural sector issues. The risks of
the project derive from the political resistance to some of the reforms and
the stability of the macroeconomy. While the current government has
demonstrated its willingness to push forward with many reforms that are not
politically popular, a new administration is likely to take office before
second tranche release. While there are indications that the current
policies will be carried over, there will certainly be political pressure to
reverse the course. On the other hand, discussion of the second tranche
conditions will also provide the Bank with an early opportunity to discuss
the broad agricultural strategy with the incoming government. Also, the
general vitality of the macroeconomy will influence the prosperity of the
agriculture sector and hence the impact of the reforms. Furthermore, if
there is a substantial appreciation of the real exchange rate, the viability
of tradeable sectors such as agriculture could be harmed. These risks to the
proposed loan are mitigated by the substantial steps that the Government has
already taken up front (as described in this Report, many of the conditions
proposed for a sector adjustment loan since January 1986 and during the
preparation of the loan have already been fulfilled, while many of the
others-for example sale of parastatals-are in advance stages of



- 30 -
implementation) and the strong commitment of the Government to continuing
reform, liberalilation of the economy, and sound macroeconomic management.
G. Social Impact of Lauiculturmi Sector Adjstmmt
99.       The structural adjustment process for agriculture will have both
positive and negative impacts, though the former wlll far outweigh the
latter. The major positive impact will be felt by: (a) the Government in the
form of fiscal savings, efficient public investments, a reduced parastatal
sector, and better information antd analysis in its policy making and
evaluation; and (b) producers in the form of improvements in the operation of
SARH, higher faragate prices, and greater productive efficiency. The
negative Impact, much of which has already been felt, will be borne by high
and middle-income consumers, while the impact on the poor will be redressed
for now and in the future by a targetted food stamp program and other food
and nutrition programs.
100.      An important question about the program envisioned in the ASL is
whether the subsidies targetted to the poor will be sufficient to offset the
effects of rising food prices, as consumer prices are raised above producer
prices at the same time that producer prices are themselves increasing.
Based upon the purchasing patterns of the poorest 20% of the population (16
llUion persons), and the assumption of administrative costs and leakages of
25%, the initial subsidy of US$250 million annually, as contemplated by the
ASL, would restore the purchasing power of the poor eroded by price increases
since 1983. The subsequent increases up to 0.2% of GDP in 1991 would then
compensate for projected increases in the prices of basic foods each year
(see Annex 7).
101.      Another important issue is whether farm output prices would
compensate for fertilizer price rises without reducing producers' net income
and without excessive fiscal costs and nutr'tional declines. Regarding the
Impact on profitability, it is important to note that over the course of the
adjustments envisioned by the loan, three factors would be simultaneously
having some impact on producer profitability. First, the increase in
fertilizer prices would tend to depress profitability, all other things being
equal. Second, at the same time, the Government would be modifying its
pricing system so that output prices would be at least at International
levels, while, third, these prices being linked at their minimum to
international prices would themselves be changing. Based on projected
changes in international prices, through 1991 the net impact of all these
factors on profitability would be positive for each of five crops that
comprise over 90X of barvested area and almost 60X of production value. The
average of the change in the ratio of price to production cost for all of
these crops, with each weighted by its share in production value, indicates
that overall profitability would increase by 12.51 (see Annex 7).



- 31 -
pAST I  - SAM GIU  OPERATIOUS IN MECD
A. B
102.      As of September 30, 1987, Hexico had received 103 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$9.7 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of these, 70
loans totalling US$4-7 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held US$7.3
billion, of which US$2.47 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 35% of Bank
lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 20% for industry, 8% for
power, 16% for transportation and 5X for policy-based lending; the remaining 16%
has been for water supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training.
103.      Of the US$9.7 billion total lending, about US$5.35 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
lidustrial and tourism enterprises.
104.      Adequately funded and properly monitored, Bank-assisted projects had
been implemented satisfactorily until mid-1982. Disbursements, as a result,
rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448 million in PY82. However, the 1982
financial crisis caused delays in the provision of counterpart funds;
consequently, disbursements declined to US$389 million in FY83. A Special
Action Program (SAP) was established in early 1983 to help the Government by
alleviating the counterpart funding constraints on development projects. A
total of 18 Bank-financed projects (including the US$350 million first Export
Development Loan approved in mid-1983) received support under the Program.
Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements improved, reaching US$528.87
million in FY84, about 35% over the levels disbursed in FY83, and increased
further by about 49%, to US$787.93 million, in FY85. But, disbursements
dropped by about 18% to US$656.7 million in FY86. This decline is attributed
mainly to the acute shortage of counterpart peso funding, lack of credit
demand, and the delays in declaring some projects effective. However,
disbursements picked up again, increasing in FY87 by about 53%, to US$1.22
billion. This increase can largely be attributed to the fast disbursement of the
Trade Policy Loan, which became effective in November 1986.
S.  IIC Operations
105.      As of September 30, 1987, IFC had made investment commitments in 32
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$831.7 million, of which US$650.9
million had been sold, repaid, or cancelled. IFC has been working together
with the Bank to: (a) identify investment opportunities which would best
suit the needs of the private sector in the current phase of Mexico's
growth-oriented adjustment program; and (b) assist the Government in reviewing
the requirements of the country's capital markets, both through economic sector
work and specific proposals for venture capital operations. The IFC has
carried out three operations in the motor vehicle and cotton seed
business. The provision of foreign exchange and export production have been
principal objectives of these operations.



- 32 -
C. Bank Strategy
106.      The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were
to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of
Bank assistance to Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis and a
reassessment of the Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank management concluded that
(a) increased Bank lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be linked to
central policy reforms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role in
assisting Mexico's return to voluntary lending by commercial banks. In its
new role, the Bank has intensified and broadened its economic and sector work.
Specific policy reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the
Mexican Government cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues,
such as trade liberalization, rationalization of preferential credit systems,
improvement in public sector pricing and investment, and subsidy reduction.
Traditional lending incorporating project- or sector- specific policy issues
is being conducted in parallel with policy dialogue on cross-sectoral or
macro policy issues.
107.      As a result of these initiatives, the Bank contributed to Mexico's
external financing needs in 1986-87 in a very especial way through continued
project lending and quick-disbursing operations in support of policy reforms
and structural adjustment in key sectors. The Bank's annual commitments in
1987 reached US$1.7 billion, assisting Government initiatives in trade,
export development, agriculture, industry, transport, and manpower training.
To lend broader support to Mexico's adjustment process, the Bank has, with
the Board's authorization, put in place guarantees for the commercial banks'
cofinancing and growth-contingency facilities up to a total of US$750
million.
108.      Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for one-third of the nation's population living
in rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at: (a) a
more efficient and rational use of natural resources to increase production;
(b) productivity improvements of cultivated lands, with emphasis on the
productivity of small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment-generating
investments in rural areas. To support these goals, infrastructure
investments in Bank-assisted projects have been complemented with support
services, such as extension, marketing programs, and credit. The Bank has
made 16 loans in FYs 80-87 totalling US$2,638.93 million, for irrigation,
rural and agricultural investment projects, and agro-industrial and livestock
credit programs. Projects for irrigation rehabilitation, extension and
forestry, and agro-industry are in various stages of preparation. Special
emphasis has been placed in recent years on the development of rainfed areas.
109.      The Bank's long-term policy objectives in Mexico's agricultural
sector are to help the Government: (a) to reduce consumer subsidies and
better target remaining subsidies so that they benefit the truly needy; (b)
to phase out price controls on foodstuffs; (c) to render more efficient
CONASUPO's and other parastatals' storage, processing, distribution and



- 33 -
marketing activities including, where appropriate, privatization of these;
(d) to move towards economic prices for agricultural inputs (e.g.,
fertilizers and water); (e) to bring domestic producer prices in line with
international prices; (f) to liberalize, over time, the trade regime with
regard to the import and export of agricultural products and foodstuffs (this
includes not only progress in the removal of prohibitions and quantitative
restrictions but also providing greater access to import activities to the
private sector); (g) to diminish credit subsidies by moving towards
market-determined interest rates; (h) to achieve a sound investment program;
(i) to rationalize pricing and promote privatization mnd efficiency in the
sugar sector; and (j) to restructure and decentra'ize tne Ministry of
Agriculture with an eye to reducing superfluous employment and to having a
higher percentage of Ministry staff actually coming into contact with
farmers. The proposed loan would support the above policy orientation.
110.      Bank lending for industry between FYs 80-87 amounted to US$1,572.25
million, covering areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining,
capital goods Industries development, industrial technology development and
export development. After the 1982 crisis, a US$350 million loan was
approved to assist in Mexico's non-oil export sector. The loan contributed
to an intensive and continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and Mexican
authorities regarding: (a) export promotion and trade liberalization
policies; (b) administrative and institutional aspects of export promotion;
and (c) financial support for non-oil exports. Based on the lessons of
experience under that sector adjustment operation and broad economic
sectorwork, a new comprehensive assistance strategy has been formulated to
guide the Bank's lending work for industry. This strategy supports: (a)
trade policy reform to move towards greater uniformity of incentives and
greater international competitiveness; (b) complementary financial sector
policies to reverse the prolonged contraction experienced by Mexico's
financial system, including its securities market; and (c) measures and
programs required to encourage adequate supply responses, particularly in
export promotion and industrial restructuring.
111.      Working towards the objectives of its strategy, the Bank has, in
FY88, processed a US$135.0 million Highway Maintenance Loan, a US$80.0
million Manpower Training Operation and a US$500.0 million Second Trade
Policy Loan (TPL II), which were complemented by a US$400.0 million Steel
Sector Restructuring Project. TPL II disbursed US$94.0 million from the
first tranche. Projects in industrial restructuring include the Fertilizer
Sector Loan and operations in the steel, automotive parts, textile, and
agroindustry sectors which are under preparation, and would help achieve the
strategy objectives over the medtum term. The proposed Industrial
Restructuring Loan (IRL) is inte2ded to provide financing to firms
undertaking restructuring operations in subsectors or product lines that are
being freed of Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs), price controls, domestic content
requirements, and the like. Finally, restructuring of subsectors dominated
by parastatals are being undertaken under the proposed loan, the Fertilizer
Sector Loan being processed in parallel, and the Steel Sector Restructuring
Loan that was submitted for Board action on March 1, 1988. In addition to
trade and pricing issues, these operations also address issues of private
sector involvement, decentralization, and management autonomy and
accountability.



- 34 -
112.      Bank lending for transport has focussed on regional development,
strengthening of institutions, and rationalization of public investment
outlay and pricing policies. Between FYs 80-87, six loans amounting to
US$752.84 million were approved, including two in each of the following three
subsectors: highways, railways, and ports. Additional projects tc support
similar goals in the urban sector were undertaken. During FYs 80-87, ten
loans were approved, totalling US$1,263.50 million, in the fields of water
supply and sewerage and urban development, including a first US$125.0 million
Urban Transport Project, which was approved on May 28, 1987.  In reeponse to
Mexico's 1985 earthquake emergency, the Bank processed a US$400 million
Earthquake Rehabilitation Project, which the Executive Directors approved in
March 1986.  A federal Highway Maintenance Project was approved in October
1987. Additional projects are under consideration in the transport and urban
sectors, which would aim at strengthening the various institutions in the
areas of planning, management, and finance.
113.      The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico
through various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and
institutional reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at
courses/seminars on water supply and sanitation sector management, transport
policy, agricultural policy, industrial development and finance, and macro
policy analysis.
114.      The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.54 billion as of June 30, 1987. Over 502 of the total has
gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and preinvestment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made
loans for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER),
agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries
development, and hotel development projects. The IDB is also providing a
program of assistance for earthquake rehabilitation and reconstruction, and
two loans in the health sector, totalling US$41.3 million, were approved on
June 27, 1986. A loan of US$100.0 million was provided for a tourism hotel
in the private sector in December 1986. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22.0 million for a
rural development project in the State of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the
Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as executing agency.
PART VI -     a      o i  Tu  InF
115.      Since 1982, the IMF has supported Mexico through: (a) an Extended
Fund Facility (EFF) negotiated in late 1982 for a total of SDRs 3.6 billions,
covering the three years through December 1985; because of non-compliance
with some of the performance criteria for the second and third quarters of
1985, this facility became inoperative, with about SDRs 908 million undrawn;
(b) a special emergency assistance drawing, for SDRs 291 million, in support
of Mexico's earthquake reconstruction needs approved in early 1986; (c) and
18- month stand-by for SDRs 2.4 billion, approved in November 1986.



- 35 -
116.      Performance under the stand-by program was satisfactory in 1986 and
the first three quarters of 1987. Final information for December 1987 is not
yet available. and therefore the IMF end-of-year review is still In
progress. Details of the performance on the stabilization program in 1986
and the macroeconomic framework for 1987 are presented in Part I above.
Coordination between the two institutions has and will continue to be close
on monitoring of the macroeeonomic program and the harmonization of lending
programs.
PART VII -0
117.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 22, 1988



-36-
A. Oba .1 0mg Oos Oatta P90ut                         D. Gowth tatse (2 PMr aum)
(fin  -~ :. pCUl  data)                               (ftco csmt~ pxi.e daa
1I6     1873    1160    lo5    im0    I987             1965-73  973-SO  issO-OS   1to6    198
Gross milxtop                   0.0 100 100    0.                 0.    100.0               .9       .2     0.8    -LI9       1.0
not Znaiio                    CS4.     5.0     8.3      .        .       .                 .      .
hnrtiItwst                   14.4    11.4      8.4     9.0      9.       .               3.1     3. 4     2.3    -3.i
Zuatry                       31.1    20.4    37.3    39.8;   38.6        ..8.3                   7.0     0.3      5.3
(of VW& m&fsatmwias)         21.0    23.7    23.0    24.7    23.5        ..8.3                   6.7    -0.9    -5.4
Sezyices                     54.4    56.4    54.4    51.2    52.4        ..6.8                   6.2     0.8    -2.6
lesoqm 3.1mm.                   -1.0    -1.1    -0.9      5.2     3.6       .                .       .
Lasof am                   9.3     8.4    12.6    16.1    16.9       ..              6.      8.5      8.8     5.2,    10.:1
3ap.za of Ms                 10.3      9.5    13.3    10.9    13.2       ..4.3                   9.9    -5.4   412.3      _0.7
Total Uupmiitex.               101.0   101.1   100.9    94.8    96.4       ..6.8                    4.3    -2.2    -5.5       2.1
Total CmUAuxiac              79.2    79.7    72.8    73.6    74.3        ..6.5                   5.9     0.1    -4.7       2.6
Privatte cunmaytim         72.2    70.5    62.0    64.1    64.3       ..6.2                   5.6    -0.4    -5.5       2.8
0.l Ge       ut             7.0     9.2    10.8      9.5    10.0      ..8.7                   7.3      3.3     1.2      1.0
Gross oinastio invst=        21.7    21.4    28.1    22.2    22.1        .               8.5     7.8    -9.0    -9.2      -4.4
1ixo Invstmet              17.4    19.3    24.2       ..      .        .9.5                   7.2   -10.6   -11.7
cimass 11% stock       - 4.2        2.1     4.0       .                ..                       .       ..     6.4
GrD os mestic say1m             20.8    20.1    27.2    26.7    25.3    26.5               8.5      8.6    -3.4   -17.2      -1.6
ant Tamto  lVamg             -0.6    -1.3    -3.2    -4.7    -6.1    -4.4                  .       .
set Ouzan Tamnfet              .       0.2     0.1     0.1      0.4     0.7                .       .
ace", Verimmi 0bs                 ..w     19.2    23.7    22.1    19.6    21.8             17.4     7.8    -5.6   -23.0       1.9
To d.111com, at Lar.            1165    1973    1960    198      1986    198
(St o.astuitlSI=rloI)           -       -        -        --               _
Omuan omstic Product         1403    2758    4276    4262    4452    4497                6.9     6.1      0.8    *1.8      1.0
Capasi ty as hmoxt            130      225     537     506      357      ..6.7    12.3    -2.3   -29.4
Ten. of Tadw Adjustment       -a      -107       0    -268    -468    -413                 .      .
Gross; omeati Incme          1535    2631    4276    4360    393       408               6.9     6.5,   -0.8,   -8.6,      2.5
aor"s Veticsm  Produt        1508    272      4138    4419    4228    4309               7.8     6.0      0.4    -4.3      1.9
GM". Isthami nm      ~       1439    2616    4138    4151    3760    S89"                7.9     6.3    -1.2    -9.4       3.5
- --(1960G- 100)------                               ---R--nltm   ates (2  ..)---
C. Pei". lotA10                 1180    Ig3    1984    1985    1 19       1987          1965-73 1973-80 1980-85    1186    l987p
Conumer PC"". (IF 64            00.0   410.2   679.0  U1047.7  189.7  4314.4               4.3    20.3    60.0    77.5    132.0
Waes l. xi. (M 63)         28.0   402.7   686.0  105.4  1984.4  4675.8                 4.0    22.3    60.1    68.4    148.0
Isplicit    Deflstator         100.0   394.6   638.1   984.   1746.0  4049.0               4.0    22.3    66.2    77.       132.0
Wl1ie z amdauze  Deflato    100.0   39.8   658.8, 1029.0  1919.0           ..3.6                    8.0     7.5     3.4
D. Other Indcastoxe                   1985-73         1973-80          1980-85--------
Growth Rate. (2 P.&.) :
pepulatiat                             3.3             3.0              2.6         Dateaon the Iaombi Indicators tables
Labor Foraest...                                                                    shwild follow the definitions and
axr.s Isttm1 1m P.C.                   4.4             3.2             -3.7         caoapt. of the Standard TabIsa mid
PrLmta Ca-mutisa p.o.                  2.8             2.6             -2.9         Stuandad Attachmts. The Windators
should Inculde data thrmzgh the most
lapost alsatilctyt                                                                    recently ompletud calendar yeaw (or
upset. (GIWS)  GM (up)                1.0              1.6            -19.5         fiescl year in the ease of fiscal year
caumtthas). Staff estimates may be umed
lbx*ml Sadsps Retest                                                                   if final or Preliminary' actual. wet ntt
ago". Itiamal ftiu                      ....                                        yet available. The ume of estimaes WAd
Goxss vmstic savinm                   1978.                            16.2         Prelmlnary fiuras should be indicated
Mm (pact"d smxaas)t                      2.8              3.5             15.9         7
Share of Total,                 1965    1973    198      1985                                  P - preliminary data
Labw ox  lox.tnt-  
Agrioutume                   34.7    30.4    26.1    26.6
Indutry                      20.7    22.1    23.5    20.9
Services                     44.6    47.5    50.4    52.5
Total                       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                            ----          --



- 37 -
_    __ utg zosi                                                   Xa
VOli Tade. (SW    100)a                    Vaa at Cm=mt wims (milion W6):
S. _Hu1Ae b                       1ow     15         64    1ow       16       S       1960    1165    1964    19too      1166    lift
1gtOu                            10.0   185.0   165.0   113.0   155.0   153.3    96.O  15143.0  15196.0  14766.0  6507.0   8700.0
Coatt.                           100.0    42.4    75.2    36.5    06.9         ..    16.7   115.    20.2    16.7    72.4           55.0
t.tU                             100.0   135,4   141.9   15.        284.0      ..    422.4    6.    424.4   512.0   619.0    46.0
Haa*mtgm                         100.0   1W0.0   194.2 V. 1.4   22357   217.2   21.0  45.7  3,.3  41.0   7W.7   9711.0
Ctr  aats                        100.0   109.1   130.3   121.2   106.1   104.5  2m.9   204.6  2915.1  15.3  1136.9   1952.0
Total IVA=bae 3ot,  me           100.0   139.0   165.9   14a.0   151.2   167.3 1606.0 22515.0 24196.0  21665.0 141.0  20944.0
P. 3ImdiwAae ?qza
CaseAm Goods                     100.0    11.?    21.9    27.1    21.4    21.9  249.6   613.9  6"4.1  1061.1   646.4   153.0
Znt*inilt. cows                  100.0    49.$    40.9    10.1    55.4    56.7 11206.7  5740.4  765.4  6965.   7?1.9    942.0
C'pi al da                       1010.0    27.5    31.1    56.6    3a.5    51.2  5174.0  2116.7  2572.6  518.6  295.0    0.0
Total Ihda1. apoaaa clr   100.0    59.6    46.3    56.6    49.5    50.7  186.   6509 &5.3 131.2  1432.3  13021.0
0. S.   of Tde (1160 - 100)    1960    196         1064    1965    1966   IlSip
Estes:
haWh. Enact  ftaLi   Ide         100.0    67.4    91.9    65.2    66.0    77.9
thgoh. roata Pits. lad.          100.0   114.1   1M2.7   124.0   122.6   136.4             Data e the KonIl Indicats tables
1mo Lae Tens of Tbad             100.0    76.6    74.3    67.2    53.8    57.1             ahold follo, the 4eflaitlmw aA
a-mopts of the Stadaud Tabls sd
us$ rdlam (at   F pets..):                          Stu2dazd Attasbte. Mm Indicators
.__- _               -----                --        _ _ suld mold. data ahzow4 th  mat
11. selwA of Fra"                 1160    1195    114    1985    1966    iS9ip             r_tly Comleted cemde row (or
_ _ _  *-_       _      ----- --            --      --fiol .            ear in the ea" of fiscal yoeu
Ear  of Goode ad Ns              24356   2717    3015    21624   22006   26214             owatrls). Staff eatuntes m   be u_ed
)*bsvAie  (PM)                16066   22312   24196   21665   16041   2094               if fi1l or piellany aatual. ae not
#ut-Factr services             7390    4667    590    59          5965    7270          Yet available. Mm use of eatimles and
prellaInary f4ut.s shoAl bh indicated
awpots af Goode sd WS           25620   12691   16079   18366   16307   17967              bys
1edindLse (FO)                l1ow2    6        11254   1212   11432   13021
ut-Pactog Servloa              676      4140    425    56    4875    49S6
p ' ptelmny data
Reesuce BSlame                   -216    1488   14077    9256    5699   10227
Net Facter i9                    -6209   -957   -104       -9       -749   -6669
(Irt.et pet M)                 4590    615    10268    9436    6542    1959
Net Stma TAfaga                    271     30       411    10         490      30
(estet        _. tta)
.o       a A _   e lsuase        -6m      5418    4241    1251   -I260    4568
1c-Tea.pitel infi                 775?    4176    2451    -400        144    5528
Dimat iaxest                   2162      461      90      491      905    2500
Off: il capital  c               ..       ..       ..
Net LT loan  (   data)         669    2361    1603    -S61         955    3928
Othe L  infloS) (Nlt)         -121       m       456    -340   -1116   -1100
Total Othe Itams (Net)            1U2   -6904   -4542   -56           130   -3096
let hawz-taw Cepta             5136   -560    -3537   -1695    1412   -1100
Capital rims  .B.I.               0        0       0        0        0        0
Ezges ad Omi                  -53      -104    -1015   -1875   -1262   -1996
_ge  in not  1 _serwas            -90    -3250   -2150    2751    916   -6600
Net Ciedat futl DV             -16    1059    1100        610      917      650
Othr Bosom   Qap.
( - tlditas  VMeSS)            -SU    -4289   -3250    2121         69   -7250
As .bns of G:P.
lesagoe BRelCKe                -1.2    10.2      8.2      5.2      4.7      8.2
Zategeat _qamts                 3.5      5.7     7.0      6.1      6.6      6.4
fzwreag t        Senc          -4.4      5.6      2.5     0.7    -1.0       3.5
Imetath. Itma:
b"tet'l Peaerve  (Cl. 09$)    2960    3915    1372    4906    5670
Reeze 1mi. 0old (aIl. Us$)    4197    41d9    8011    5691    6664
Official X-Rate ClOUsaIS)        22.95  120.09  167.83  256.67  611.77  1462.70
Iadam V*al SU. X- Wn n  83.10    100    7.1    65.60   66.25    60.40    5S.51
(Millios of         Us9$)   1633   142736  171296  17155   127136  121935



- 38 -
OD -  C               _                        
ef IIDW tX                 -< S  e.-.)~~~~~~~3 f 
owna SC089 (2)                                     Oueth gnas (2 o.&.)
I. Om.1ad 1          Sese.       13       18      134      196      13     l19               10  - 84          198     13       13
OUIIM RIstp                      24.3    5.*    31.5    50.4    29.3    50.5                  4.1             -4.       4.2
Ouwit  qidLtuea                  24.0    56.7    55.5    56.1    40.5    42.4                 6.                1.9    21.4
0 c  a i  _tsus                  1.4    - .9    - .2    -5.7   -1z.2   -12.1...                                          ...
Cita flceF                         ..       ..      ........
Cata                              94      .       -4.2    .5.       -4.4              -.5     4.5              4.7   -4.2
oul Defii                        -0       -9.4    4.4    -9.5   -1.5   --1.4                    ..
lkg Dtbsina s(s$ *&asll )                            u e tt k tSi   Diabure  (DS ea.)
J. hie.dCap.ital nra,Debt
aid Debt e      tatle         198      13       1*      1965   136      17,    1#0         135     1t6      1985   1_6       1967
Paul* a pl1oly Gteed LT   59    226               13e       94     3M       s9      337   6759   7071    72530   7496           a
Oflfoll CusItou                7       -265     84       43       m2    1745    41    674          7469    gm7   lon1        15
lutlater.l                  501    -520        7      7        979      945    3189    42        40    s57        79       72
of      Mm              .553      176      419     43       668    5s       2065    2870    5289       m2    "16        6
ofe      m                 ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..
IllatmI                     296      257      li4     -19      395             3 1292    2541    2639    2853   S36        568
PmSCd                         434      26       55       262      -7    4        2007   6021   6667   659   6402
-32     in      -I5        6       -1       1      257      343     203      2u       216      313
lIinlal k*ata              45       2643      509     25"      -76    40      20   5958   424"    63531   640    7079
PuLuts LSgauated                 170        0      B4    -420    -200    -560    7300   1480    17500   140    la"             15
TOtl LT                         9G        2          2      32      1005    53    4327   69          e7sn    8900    9062    96472
fl Nst Credit                    -16    19    1100          6"      917      650        0    I260    2360    2969    4060        4678
aft shot-TM Capital              51m    -50    -357   -16           40   -1100   14        1019       440    5450     6306      s02
Total Anobadiog fl  & Nat 8s     13    -26    -45    -755    1962    4960   57450   92               9737    97429  101450 l615S
B     d   A Bt                   190    1         194      15    198.   1987.            ------
~~~~~~~~~-                         ----    :                                      oes
Share of Total         DIWT   am
i. I    as 21 Of toal            5.00    3.52    5.76    4.24    4.65    7.14              S  Of the PiAtO Iadi*atow  tabl_
2, IDA as I   Totel              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        f ebsl ill   th  dfalltIs. ad
3. IWID A as X of last           5.00    5.52    3.76    4.26    4.65    7.14            e    _AePt of the 8ctdOW Tabe S  d
&mce of Tteal IS Debt 8egeLoe                                                            Standard Attuta. Mmindicators
1. IB  a   o Total               2.7      5.07    3.11    4.32    5.80    7.44           abwjd toolid  data _bw*h the moat
2. IDA on 2.f Total              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            rectly osplt  edaladar yea (or
3. IODM an Xoef Stal             2.75     5.07    5.11    4.52    5.60    7.44             1.0.1 YOM  In the me of fISal yeog
oertea).  Staff eatintee o  be used
DaD-to-RAWOt RatIea                                                                       it 1Ifal Or preliAXY eataaS    nt
yet available. Ths ue of eatimate ad
1. L  -T     Debtl0hpozt       176.02  300.08  290.39  322.22  413.81  341."             prOLlUM7 firum   s14d be ladloated
2. VW Coeditizhporta             0.00    4."      7.85    10.75   16.45   16.56          by:
3. Shrt-Tea DsbtlNorta          68.91   37.30   21.34   19.73   28.66   17.75
4. LT+DWlU    DI0E_Jorts       2".93    42.02  3229   352.70  40.#92  374.26
DOD-to-W                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p *preUiahaxy daft
1. Ltm-Tm DebtIe?               22.1k   57.1    51.12   50.1      n.6    79.12
2. Dlr CzitIGP                   0.00    0.88    1.36    1.67    3.19    3.84
3. Sboht-Tem DebtIOW             6.67    7.10    5.76    5.07    4.96    2.54
4. LTMxFlWS DUarP               30.63   65.13    56.84   54.93   03.20   85.20
Debt Ser1aIBouta
1. PubLlc &  _mted L           32.06   40.04   34.93   36.90   59.50
2. ftLwat* Emt-0MiAet  LST       5.9    5.40   14.26   11.25   11.55
S. Total LT Debt Servie         37.97   45.44   49.19   4.15    51.0S
4. VW lapmae  + Sew  ia.
5. intst Oar anST Debt
6. Totel (I.T+D  462 SSt.)       .9D0   45."    47.20   49.30   56.70   50.40



-39 -                                    ANX 2
0TATUS or BANK  30oop OplUATZOu  to3 llXtCO  1/            Page 1 of 2
A.  Stotsut of lah LotLa
IA o@ f Soptosbo 35J. SS tI)
010*1-                                                Assis%tZ ULoss    lal-
Less go.   Veer    garrgugr        Purpose                      C*esstlmtlosu    beroed
70  eo.. tally disbsePed                      4,700.01
lal-5    1376        RAPISSA      tIrrigotles                          30.00    * e.el
1550-5    logs       SAPISA       Irrigation                          7g*gg        sees,
1513       lol1      savossAs      Water supptl                       leS.0s        44.48
tloe       Iasi      UAiSllA5      orb** sevotopmost II               154.33        61.S4
1U43       150 loseEAp             Imtg&ot zsd Roost Dee.             175.@0        aloes
3143       lose      SAPIUSA       Capitlt **ed  toZdustry            |t5.s5        70.7e
3154      1l3s       NAPIUSA       PsIuztito lostrat                   I1.0l        11.51
3134       less      BANOSCIA       Urban lmslsseresg                   e.a0          5.07
use        loss      SAP rSA       Aerieaslersl Surkutsig             115.00        40.45
3asi       less      3AUOURA3      Third Water lupply                 105.00        56.33
3eas       1e3s     NAPRSA        tbsid ets/Ne  ladsetry             175.50          $.03
goal       loss      UAUUOSUXT    export Osvtspuaut                   510.00        sl.3e
3433       1334      3*305*AS      Ntghou-y                           305.00       108.51
3488       1334      3ANPE5CA      Prt$S                               ?3.8o        s3.7?
loss       lose      %AFINSA       OblPeso surst Neeso                 as3.0        loses
alsO       lose      WAPISA        Cbhiapa  Aorta Dow.                300.08        77.04
3540       1333      NAP19A        Su/Nj Seats Mining St              *05.00        Sss
esee      1o1       CAPINA        wVesetionel Eduestios              l3.00         53.Se
Sa37       135       DANODUA3      Net alus V                         33o0.00       ea.s.0
3010       lOse      NAP14MA       Agrisertural credit                100.03          5.05
*3s0       Isle    ss 8A03*A       Low-tnee-s Mevelng I               lo0.l       lO$,se
ton3       lose      lAFIN         Proderj th 1I                      103.00         86.47
gses       tsee      SANODURA      *erthbqeke Rehab.                  400.00       1s6.33
*see       tees      SANOSUAS       usleipel 3tressgtbeinu            40.00        37.03
3f50       legs      BAUOGRA8      solid  est*e P1t ot                 33.00        33.3
3745       1e07      *AUCOONXT    Trede Pe1t6w Loon I                 oO0.00        10.00
874s       1337      lAFIN        t3odsdrt t *l eoveory               150.30       117.73
3747       1337      NAFPI         Toestoelgy Oewevepuent              45.00        33.37
3777       1367      on0c          Eaport Wovltope-at It              830.00       0tO.15
3234       1337      SANOERAS      Urban Treopeort                    135.00       135.s0
357        1307      NAVIN         AeroZeutsoret Credit               400.00       350.3s
3053 3/   107        SlAFI*        So/Ned tIdeetr1io  IV              oss.0s       133.00
3350       1337      lAPIN sllreslturet Intaesion                      30.50        17.41
TOTAL                                         O 703.U1
Of sblei  ue* beso  relpid to the look        3,431.33
T1us   Dow *"steadiag                      --;.;;3
Assent eutd                   3.384
Of *bseb of been repaid  23.34                     0.00
Tod*&  aus botd by look  S3/                  7e3e.sg
Totat *edieberesd                                           3,477.73
1/   The states ef the prejesto  tisted In Part A Is la a *eoperted report an
Ott SoaktIOA finesued projests In eueoutigu, whichis t pdated toles )earLy oan
GtPouAted0 to the lassutts1 Otreetsre en Aprit 00 and Oetober J1.
3/   Prior to *seashog  edjoeset s.
o/   Not lot effiestie.
Lo*mSt*ssaUIt "NXCmAI ...J75
USAraeotorLARGO
Ostuhor see 1337



-40-                                    ANEX 2
Page 2 of 2
*.  SCetesee  et tf0 Reweeoo"st
As at septoobee asI loop
t o*  ItStlOll
_-_-__________--------------------   ___---_---------_-----------__----------------___
Veer                  Obligetr                      Type of Bsiel*e            3qalty       Less        VotaL
1*33/53        tmduestvle  P*efeot
Oluele 3.A.  e/                   SduetelOL Squlpeest             sea         3*3         see
333           Swest edoe soals 3.A.  a/            A.3.  sgols* Owveeoet            s.e         s.e         s.e
Iasi           &.*Fe ftlet?  B.A.  a/               Twl*t $#IL*                     sea          see         as.
13 8/0/S/      Psodldeo S***teetey* B.A.  O/        *$Gtl                          31*4          *.e       *a.,
13             Tebse dos de  wore So Scaxte         otWateve Stl Pipes              9.t          s.3         1
1333          3.1..*-     de& S*op  S.A.  el       S.dins seIpote                  3.*         3*1          3*7
1834/          Isdoetrlo dot PIerte. S.A.           OosZstrsstls Sqelpsest           .3*         3.3         a.3
1373           Riser* deL  Ratio  a/                Ire.t Sr. vistas                 see         1.3         1.3
1371           Sole**e  seat*oese  3.5.  s/         To*atLe.                        3.3         1g.o       1s.3
1373           Prossotre de Pepst Pftledleao.
$.A. de 3.*.  6/                  Putl  ead Paper                  b/         see          b/
1373/3        O*e*esee Vereorsa. B.A.               basest                           S.l        13.3        13.$
13,4/31        Coeaum Arlt'so Metal                 bartb-                          6s           i.e         1.3
1373/73        "ealssa$ 3.5.                        S*t*olOce St*el                  s.e        13.3        13.3
1373/31/33    Popees.  Posdersee. S.A.              Pulp sod Pepoc                  3.0        13.7         13.7
1073           TeesfialLtee Soalaesee. 3.A.         Petreebesle0Lo                   f.o        13.3        13.3
1137/31        Xetol Seals. tSet e atpoe.
3.A. do 3.1.                      Touries                         4.3         Do.         4.3
1373/33       lSproges  ltoooe. S.5.                Gesost                          7.3       1s3.o        173.3
1373          O6600setoes seslrerrto G.5.            lstGOSelt Vite a 30310         g.3        13.3         le.0
13Os          IZsdosplae asseolat. 3.A.             Peetlele Boeed                   G.O        s3.e        33.
1lo3           Videlo Pleas do **ax**s  3.A.        Ft*t $Less                       s.e       114.3       114.3
lose           011**T lisot de Asslete
B.A. de 3.1.                      stelae                          3.0       113.0       113.0
1331           Oetlleloso Oantaures  3.A.  a/    Ptp aned Peper                      O-O        84.3        64.3
1331           GOerPePeolS groladvsstrel.
3.A. ao 0.v.                      Astg-Uuelasseeo                 3.o         1.         14.3
1333            SpISt,l 9oad* PoolLtp  o/           Gopliel Geeds Ploessolg          G.O       133.0       133.0
1334           Hstoese  3.&.                        SAte Obesle                     1.4 d.3                  4.4
1334           Presoloom. G.A. do 0.V.              Asts-***loseo                    3.3         s.0        *3.
1ot3           Promestesse  sadvetrlese
Saleses  3.5. do 3.d    . ctoveboleeseol                          0.3        13.4        13.4
133e           Saluleso v Pepot do Datreso.
G.A. do 3.W.                      Putp sod Pope                    .         13.0        11.
133            Agrspse  Pbooe I 153351              Weg. 4, pealt Proo.eselm          .          1.3         3.3
l3ss           SuLleasa                             ShOtOlesl a ptr*eeeeo           3.. ... 3.g              3.o
1ose           &poes                                 S*so*t                          3 .0       43.0        43.0
Totot  re.. cesttes$*o                                               3.        1733        331.
Lose Sesalletalese. Teorelstleas.
Nepapsose$  *no Saes.                                            33.3       3374         M30.
eteSL Ooaalt.soSt  low Sold by WO3.7                                           131          3.
eTeIL Sedlaobrood tileltdlag perSlolpeaste)33                                   111.
of  Z eeesohtb*b baye been tulIt  seseeltlod  tereleeetds *rlttos eff.
etas, redeemed of repad.
o/   steudes 4gg6*ggg copltalloed istoroot.
LeosStetueg 2301 SNXC51 ... .7.
ISAreo SteaLASSO
ostaber 37. 1337



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
NEXCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare loan:        About two years
(b) Loan prepared by:                             Government with Bank
assistance
(c)  First Bank mission:                          September 1986
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:              April 1987
(e) Negotiations completed:                       February 1988
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              March 1988
Section 1I - Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness:
(i) Provision to the Bank of evidence that macro-economic policy framework
is consistent with the program of agricultural sector adjustment
program (para 96).
(b) Conditions of first tranche disbursements exceeding US$25 million:
(i) Provision to the Bank of terms of reference for studies acceptable to
the Bank (paras 55, 76).
(ii) Removal of export controls on quality cuts of beef and high quality
rice (para 76).
(iii) Preparation of disbursement procedure to coordinate disbursements
with transactions covered by Trade Policy Loan II and Fertilizer
Sector Loan (para 94).
(c) Conditions for second tranche release:
1. Food Security (paras 37-41)
- Implementation in 1988 of a satisfactory targetted program of
food stamps or other well-targetted food subsidy program at
adequate levels of funding sufficient to compensate poor for
elimluation of global food subsidies between 1983 and 1986 (about
US$250 million or about 0.1S of GDP), using mechanisms to



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
minimize diversion of stamps from the target population.
Linkage of price of tortibonos to price of tortillas to
maintain subsidy per recipient at constant real levels. Pilot
introduction of targetted food assistance in rural areas.
Revision of criteria for eligibility. Study of expansion of
other programs (e.g., school feeding) to buffer impact of
adjustment program. Preparation of a satisfactory action plan
for expansion of nutritional monitoring program for urban and
rural areas.
2. Reduction of role of parastatals (paras 57-68)
-  Lmitation of transfers to CONASUPO to less than US$85 million
in 1988 Public Budget.
- No introduction of global food subsidies through institutions
other than CONASUPO.
- Satisfactory progress on compliance with timetable for 500
DICONSA outlets beLng closed or moved to poor neighborhoods.
- Liquidation of CAIASUPO's wheat-processing affiliate,
TRICONSA.
- Satisfactory progress in sale or closure of 15 parastatals
in the agricultural sector.
- Satisfactory progress in closure or sale of 2 sugar mills(four
mills have been closed already).
- Discussion of study on sugar pricing policy, including cane,
fob mill, and consumer prices so as to reduce subsidies and
to promote greater efficiency.
3. Trade Liberalization (paras 69-76)
- Satisfactory completion of a study of variable tariffs and
discussion of its results with the Bank.
- No imposition of export controls on fruits and vegetables.
- Encourage farmer organizations to establish and control export
quality for vegetables antd fruits while eliminating
Government-imposed quantitative restrictions.
- Reduction of QR coverage of import licensing on agricultural
and agro-industrial products by 5 percent of national
production coverage.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Pa'ge 3 of 31
4. Liberalization of Agricultural and Food Pricing (paras 42-56)
- All guarantee prices administered by CONASUPO maintained at
least at real 1987 levels in 1988* Guarantee prices for all
crops except maize and beans maintained in 1989 within a range
of 90X to 125Z of comparable international prices, adjusted
for processing margins, transport costs and quality
differentials according to an agreed upon methodology. (Upper
limit of 125X may be revised pursuant to results of study
described below if agreed by both parties.)
- Review and discussion with the Bank of the results of a study
on the guarantee price system, including issues of
pan-territorial and pan-seasonal prices.
5. Revision of Input Pricing (paras 77-81)
- Provision of a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank to
implement a system of charges for water used in agriculture
that will achieve recovery of OEM costs except under specific
circumstances estalished by Mexican law.
6. Sound Public Investment Budget (paras 82-86)
- Establish procedures to encourage and facilitate disbursement
of loans from international agencies in support of the
investment budget of SAR. Submission of 1989 budget request
to Congress that increases investment budget of SARH by at
least US$200 million in real terms. Budgetted funds will be
made available to SARH as needed for timely implementation of
agricultural investments.



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Characteristics of Production and Lad Distribution
1.       A wide range of crops can be grown in Mexico as a result of the
considerable variety in agro-ecological conditions. Agricultural
productivity varies considerably depending on the extent of commercially-
oriented farming, public sector investment, and the use of inputs. In the
irrigated and intensively farmed northwest, yields are twice and labor
productivity three times the national average, whereas in the rainfed
plateau states, both measures of productivity are well below national
averages, reflecting the lack of investment in infrastructure as well as
certain intrinsically poor characteristics of the environment.
2.       The most Important domestic crops, in terms of area planted, are
maize (42.52 of the area planted to the 37 most important crops in 1984),
beans (10.91), and sorghum (10.01). These crops represent 24.41, 2.62, and
6.8% of the total value of agricultural production. Fruits and vegetables
occupy 8.81 of area planted but exceed all other crops in value of
production and account value. Of the basic grains, Mexico is self-
sufficient in wheat and rice but imports significant amounts of maize and
sorghum. Soybeans and milk powder are other products that are heavily
Imported.
3.       In 1985, some 5.4 million ha of irrigated land were harvested,
representing 251 of the cropped area. Expansion of irrigated areas, at one
time the most significant factor in the increase in agricultural
production, has slowed in recent years, as the supply of land suitable for
irrigation has run low. The scope for new schemes is becoming smaller and
development more costly. Government policy therefore has tended to favor
rainfed (temporal) agriculture in recent years, where the scope for
productivity increases using available technology is high. Investment
costs in rainfed agriculture are lower than in large-scale irrigation, and
social benefits are higher.
4.       After a half-century of land reform, about 3 million people own or
have rights to land according to the 1970 census (the 1980 census has not
been released as yet). About 4.5 million people remain landless.
Collectively organized aejidos' farm over 401 of the land area and
constitute what the Government calls the social sector. The remaining
individually-owned private farms are relatively small with 652 under 5
hectares and 801 under 10 hectares. Large parcels over 100 hectares are
mainly in range land in the northern states. About 72 of the farms
covering 191 of the cropland use modern technologies; about half the farms
covering 342 of the cropland produce mainly for subsistence. The remaining
are classified as traditional farms, producing for the market, but using
antiquated technology. Although the Mexican Administration has reformed
land policies to allow more consolidated use of ejido land, and reduced the
threat of expropriation of larger land holdings, reportedly little has
changed as a consequence. The threat of expropriation, whether real or
implied, continues to constrain land use in some parts of Mexico.



Actix  Prior to Bond Pgeutatim                      tCo~m for Dlsbniewm  of Swmd Tnwb
Pblic Objativ                   Adden                         (stimts4 dae of Aieb          1- M1 31, 1909)
_MIuitimi of Slow            - Iacim  of gt  food            - Iumlatidn in 1988 bf a satisfat    taqettad
subsidAm and estebislmot    absidls ele: for ur.             prog of food st       o r tr welnarptted food stbsi
of a satisfactory targett     Gkim  susd   , previously      x is  at dapate lels of findu  afficat to
food subsd  prog    aft       12 of G1, dituU  eliuetet   pow for re&%tka of global foo sdi
alui'at~e fuig. (pa.          in 1987  qPI mapr (0.019 of   bstwmn 1983 and 1986, im d%W    to min*ad
32-36)                       a?P).                           di        of st     frau the Capt pyuthm. a"
$250 miliZo or 0.12 of GM umld be uuldwe  an
dUut   lve    Aiep o PriS Cf Ort2M   top eofp    d
- aEtroducti  of food staii    totlla  by ad1jstiiu tortlb    pim, tdda  lito
for totila  (abuat 0.2 of  idmtia  tim prim o totila  and toi  mm of
GIP In 198).                    iItlit,          i aS :xt to imeme thie subsy In  al t_
pwr te o8ot to lewls s,atw tbo thr  e3dotU  aB of
tSim  ffactve Iaes of the lon. P1la  ftra&mtic of
tarpettad food asslom In rural axem n. leisk of
cditeida for eltgbidity. Sft    of egimi  of
utriti     p cgm  to bdfwr Iac  of adotjnt
pI S     Ptintation of a satisf8 to  aetim plan for
amaimio of matritiarmi iunttori   Ir    to rura  aid
orm  are.
FActim  of role of            - [ e_ mat ai                  - Timitatin oif r      f       opmtz  ulsm  to
pw.tAas.                     and                 of            3!O  In 1968 to abt 1VW85 nUl
(pa. 50-61)                  ObIN  ad affliates.             - lb Inmo&ctiom af Slo. fod subsidi  tlwi
tatims  tlr   M O *0.
- Satysfactoy programs an complianc  it timtb le fr
- De f tiA*ic  Of              SW 5ODI(XI         bel t   cltued or wid to powr
aMO pirdam  to 6               wmigl _ Io.4
Cd1tim-  for p uof             - Uipuldti  of M          s i              affae,              0 
prIC aiPPOrt.                  U1(oXAO 0  to
- Satisfactoy Onplm4     ith tiwidi  for age orP
clnm  of 15 paratatals In  rloa"tral        I.
- Clasue of 31 dfmxt           - Sissio  to CO0s of a 19891: i    fbq
pr-statala unr SAM             for opratpeiosm  to 0aw  18  a
to thos awrsty Iadptted for tim 1968 in r.el tein.



- 46 -Anex 5
Page 2 of 3
2/19/88
II~~~~t
|  *'    '453hi'  A8sSn>Tatl
II~~~~~~~0
I tti    'fj,l 'Ugill X ,.,j
4 v
jI    X  11      0
~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~i
a  '4          is' iuiiii!ii~~~~i



_47-                   Anex 5
Page 3 of 3
2/19/88
i3  'ItflilI i"if.                                         Il
ii    ili3a S3IjbII                 liit411                        ;ji
w~~~~~~~~~~t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  t
ii  iiiifliujIj                                                  I,
g B                                                             1k X}g



- 48 -
Annex 6
Table 1
CONASUPO'S FOOD SUNSIDlES
(Drect end Indirect)
(million peso.)
Current           Constcnt 1982                % GDP
1982                      58,737.9              58,737.9                    .62
1983                     173,205.1              95,799.2                   1.01
1984                     271,656.6              94,390.8                    .94
1985                     205,089.6              43,524.9                    .45
1986**                   143,795.6              17,438.2                 -  .18
Does not include sugar subsidies, which are not administered by CONAStPO.
**    Budgeted amount.
Source: COIASUPO estimates



49 -                Annex 6
Table 2
Podlucton Coverage of Price Controls, 1982 and 1986 1/
mplementng Agency/                   Decembr                 September
Type of control                   1982                   1986
'SICOP?
Strict Controls.                 23.292/                 10.98%
Registered Controls               N*A.                    6.302
Registerd                         6.59X                   4.862
COwAso 3/
Grais                             3.022                   3.022
Oilssids                           .54                     .542
AZUCAR SA
Sugar         '.932                                        .932
t4olasseO .092                                             .092
PEX
Crudn  Oil                       15*932                  15.93t
Iefined Oil                       4.622                   4.622
lic Petroch cal                    .98                     .982
TOTAL                            55.092                  48.252
1/   Production coverage Ls based on the methodolog  mployed in the Tradt
Policy Loan 27445-H. Only 3 of the products subject to controls are not
In the ample of products used by the mthodology.
2/ This d0oes not include balc pharmaceuticals w1 ch were not included in
the lit provided by SZCOFI. This is estimated to lead to an additional
.52 of prouction undr price controls.
3/   Maise and wheat are no longer under SECOPI controls In 1986, but still
withia COMtASUPO controls.



- 50 _                  Annex 6
Table 3
Average Nominal Protection Coefficients for Ma(jor Crops a/
Not Trade
Price Ratio 8/            1970/75  1975179  1979/82  1983/86   Position-1985
Maize
Guarantee/CIF (landed) b/   1.01      1.04      1.44   ^ 1.28   Net importer-
Guarantee/FOB  b/            1.13     1.14      1.59     1.39
Wheat
Guarantee/CIF (landed)       0.77     0.78     0.83      0.88   Self-sufficient;
Guarantee/FOB                0.85     0.84     0.89      0.95   large surplus
in 1985
i1ce
Guarantee/ClF (landed)       0.70     0.69      0.71     0.97   Net Importer
Guarantee/FOB                0.79     0.75      0.78     1.10
Guarantee/ClF (landed)       n.a.     n.a.      0.78C1   1.13d/ Self-sufficient
to net Importer
Sorghum
Guarantee/CIF (landed)       0.80     0.87      0.91     0.89   Net importer
Guarantee/FOB                0.90     0.96      1.01     0.97
Soybeans
Guarantee/CIF (landed)       0.96     0.96      1.18     1.08   Net Importer
Guarantee/FOB                1.04     1.01      1.25     1.15
a/   Nominal Protection Coefficients (basically the ratio of domestic to
international prices) are uad us ted for under and over valuation of the
xchange rate. Adjusting for exchange rates would lower the protection up
until about 1982/83. In the oid-years of the 1980s, it would raise the
coefficients of protection.
b/  Ratio of support or guarantee price to CI? or FOB price.
c/   1980-82.
t/   1985.



- 51 -
Annex 6
Table 4
R*cent Mhmdul Protetloe     e Cosftl eumt foir Mjor CroM  ,/
not Trade
1983-6    Aptil 66    ov. 1986 April 198 position
Gur at elCly (lUaded)          1.28       1.37         1.05    1.01      Mat imrter
Whet
Giu rate/POB                    0.95       0.88         0.58    0.83      Large arplus in
1985
lice
'ganar tee/CIC (landed)         0.97       066          0.74    0.75      let Isporter
a^unteeICIi (lauded)           1.13j      n.e.         o.a-    a*         Self aufticlet
to set ilporter
Guarsut.e/CIP (lauded)         0.89       0.92         0.71    0.57       Not Ilporter
OnaranteerCIP (landed)          1.08       0.81         0.65    0.75      Not Importer
aI   uatlo of domestlc (Goarantee) priceo to international prlces, at current exchmge
r-te.
=1   1985.
Industry Departrnt
January 1987



Annex 6
-52 -                  Tabl-e5
fercentape of Productlon Under Licensing
(as of March 31, 1986)
z Sare of Sector       2 Share of Sector    S of Total ?Iational
Sector              Is No  oil Production      Undor LScensing     Produ. Under LIceansing
I.    Agriculture           10.2                    87.4                   7.0
IX.   Agro-ludustry         23.9                    65.0                  12.3
III.  Livestock,
torestry,
and Marino            7.8                    25.8                   1.6
IV.   tanerals               3.5                     2.9                  0.1
V.    Manufacturing          7.7                    56.4                   3.4r
VI.  Other
Manufacturing        46.8                    26.9                  9.96
VII   Petroleum and
Derivatives                                   -                     -



Annex 6
Table 6
page 1
LIST OF AGRICULTURAL, AGRO-INDUSTRY, LIVESTOCK, FORESTRY AND MAIRZ PRODUCTS
INCLUDED aY SZCOF. IX DISCUSSIONS OF POSSIBLE LIBERAZATION UNDER TPL II
(Numbers represent 2 of production)
SCENARIO I            SCENARIO 2
8.32 REDUCTION        3.12 REDUCTION
LAN                               Q2SLiF QL
1 Agriculture                                    1.34                0.04
0603001  Flores Frescos                    x                   x
0603.999  Los 1n                            x                   x
0604&003  Arboles do Navtdad                x                   x
0701.001  Papa* (patatas except.
fracclof 0701&002              x
0701aOOS  Cebollas                          x
07014008  Ajo para Sembra                   x                   x
0705.002  Frijoles (porotos) exc.
fraccion 0705.004
0705.004  Frijol par. siembra               x
0801.999  Los Doas                          x
-O86a003  NMabtillos                        x
0807a999  Los DemOs                         x
0808aO01  Freas Frescas                     x
0809aO01  Las Deoms Frutas Frosesas         s
10010999  Los Dom"                          x
1002a001  Centeno                           x                    a
1003a999  Los Dems                          x
1004.001 Avena Extepto la fraccion
1003.002                       x
1005.004  Mtad  par. siembra                x
1007a002  Sorgo pars siembra                x
1201a003 Semtllas de Soya *xc. frac.
1201a007                                            x
l201aO06  De Nabo                                                x
1201.007  Seadllas de Soya (soja)
pars siembre                                         x
1201aO08  De Girsol para sie* bra                                x
1201a009  De Cart.a. pars siembra                                x
2 Livestock                                      0.10                 0.10
0104a004  Caprinoo  para Abastos            x                    I
0104999  Los Doeus                          x                   x
0106M004  Abej.s                            x                    x
4 Fnsh and Seafood                               0.68                 0.0
0302.999  Los-euas 
03030999  Los Dowcs                         a
11 Meat and Milk Products                         0.56                0.0
0205aO01 Tocino con exclusion del
que tongs. part 



Annex 6
Table 6
Page 2
1601e001  Imbutldo ee o cars
dJfespoj*s coup.. dtbl.           x
19 iscellaneoeu Food                               0.57                0.27
1006a001 Armo entero docasca1llado
Pultdo/Abrt.                    a
1006.002  Aro. entero. Si. Dscasc rillat
. (wiSrc )                          it                   a
1002a001  Avess est  cascara sin despuentr
31 tritu.
1203.014  De Calabsaz                                              x
1604.002  Atunes                              3                    x
1604a004  Sardlnas                            a                    x
1604a999  Los Dome                            x
1605aO02  Centolls                            x
1605S003  Chotos Cholgas Locos o  ach"s       x
1605.004  Ejillones                           x
1605&005  Derbereches                         a
1605.006  Vavajas 
1605a007   atburrio                           a
1605a999  Los Deem                            x
1806.001  Oulies o loubones                   x
2301.001     Marinas de "nLale                                    Z
arinoo                         A
17 Animl and Vegetable Ois                         0.10                 0.0
1507.001  Asattei de Ajonjolt                 a
21 Malt Beverages                                  0.06                 0.06
1107.001  Malta$ lncluso tootsd               x                    x
12 Processed FtuSts and Vegetables                 003                  0.03
0804.002  PFa. de Ova                         x                    x
O8O8aOOl Freoaa Frescas                       x                    x
2007.001 D'Eranjas C/Dooi4ad
haste d*1.20 a 15o                                  x
13 NllIna Produa-a                                n077                  f 77
1906.&999  Los Dames                          x 
23 Tobacco Products                                0.6                  0.0
2401999  Lo  bas                              a
2501.001 Sal (Crudo. de Sodic)
TOTAL                   4'81                                         1.27



Mexico
Orop Support Prices - In Real Terms
3000
2750                        Boons
2500
2250
24'000
1750 .
1500             , 
~'*7~4~  I\Ric.                          ..J
1250             *wtn /                    i     e       _
1000/
500                   Sorghum
250-4--                                         I
1970   1972   1974   1976   1978   1980   1982   1984 1986-Apr.
1971   1973   1975   1977   1979   1981   1983   1985
Year



Mexico
Producer & International Prices - Maize
275'9
25  Guarontse
1R175E  *;z 'btS, .... 11o~~~~~~~~~* 
250                                         1
22.5
Actualt 
200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
175  3t'  '"  Stxn
150
125O
... 175  -93  1
Y     o a r        .      *



Mexico
Producer & International Prices - Wheat
200
/CIF.londod   ~-
175
150
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
PL125 
1D Actual                               Guarantoe
1010I
H*S.I.i,...
.   ~~~~~~~~._
75-
50 L                                                
1970  1972  1974  1978  197d  1980  1982  1984'1986-Apr..
1971  1973  1975  1977   1979  1981  1983  1985
Yeoa r



Mexico
Producer 8 International Prices - Beans
800
SIntornotlonol
700
Actual! 
600 
ti$U
-500                                        U'O
~400 
:~~~~~~I                            / : 
Ye .Guarantee           A
300                                  .***.*
200-
100                                                                    4    
1970   1972   1974   1976   1976   1980   1982    1984 1986-Apr.,
1971   1973   1975   1977   1979   1981   1983   1985
Year                                 Ji



Mexico
Producer & International Prices - Rice
600
5350          ,Ai                  r         ,, ^CIFtfndded
500  1\       ,                              I',,,/ 
A
450
12400                                      i/*~~ FOB Now Orleans
CL 350                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tActual
300     .    .A       *                    *   *  *   *  *   *  .c
250                                                  :U
200                 V~ .;           urnteFOB Bangkok
150      2mZ.
100-4---                                                 p
1970  1912  1974   1976  1978  1980   1982   1984 1986-Apr.
1971   1973  1975  1977  1979  1981   1983   1985
Y ear



Mexico
Producer & International Prices - Sorghum
170
160                                           IC
150                                          A .Actual
140
130         CIF,tanded
120
~110
a. ~ ~    ~    ~     _         
0w100/   i*h~-,'A
90                   :
80 
70      / ~~~~  FOB Gulf
v...Ow- Guarantee
40
1970  1972  1974  1978  19*5  1980  1982  1984 1986-Apr 
1971  1973  1975  1977  1979  1981  1I983   1985
Y e ar



Mexico
Producer & International Prices - Soybeans
450
400                                          .1Il
50                ___   _Actul
CIF.landed
.300
VI 250
2001Gurne
150
100   -           ,   ,     ,   ,  ,    .   .
1970   1972   1974   1976   1976   1980   1982   1984 1986-Apr.
1971   1973   1975   1977   1979   1981   1983   1985
Year



- 62 -
Annex 7
Page I of5
Social Impact of Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
1.        Impact on Farm Prices.  As of end-1986 (the base year for the
calculations below), domestic price of maize was 51 above world levels while
the price of rice was 26X below, the price of wheat 121 below, the price of
sorghum 81 and the price of soybeans 151 below equivalent vorld price
levels. If the subsidy on fertilizer is removed and its price increased by
approximately 1431, as initially projected in the Fertilizer Sector Loan, the
costs of production of these crops would rise by 10 for msize, 131 for rice,
11% for wheat, 191 for sorghum, and 71 for soybeans. The resulting change in
the share of fertilizer in the cost of production, assuming fertilizer use
per unit of output stays constant, is displayed in the table below.
Share of Fertilizer in Cost of Production (Z)
Maize  lice   Wheat   Sor;hum   Soybeans   Beans  Winter Vegetables
1986     7       9      8        13         5         2            2
1991     9      12     11        16         7         3            3
However, world prices for these commodities other than wheat are projected to
increase sufficiently such that if farmers received world prices, the
fertilizer cost rises could be absorbed fully.  That is, if farmers were paid
at least world prices (a condition of the loan), the profitability of
production of aU crops would be enhanced. These calculations are summarized
in the following table.
Effect of Fertilizer Cost Increases
On Profitability of Flive MaJor Crops
Maize  lice   Wheat   Sorghum  Soybeans
1. Projected change in world price
of crop, 1986-1991 (Z)               28    16       1       27        12
2. Plus change in 1986 support
price to reach 1986 world price (Z) -5    26       12        8        15
3. Minus change in cost of
production coming from increased
fertilizer price (Z) I/              10    13     11        19         7
Net Change in Producer Price
Relative to Cost                      +13    +29     +2        +16      +20
1 Assumes increase in domestic fertilizer price of 1431, as initially
projected in Fertilizer Sector Loan documents.



- 63 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
The five crops in the table account for about 912 of the 1985 harvested area
and about 58X of 1985 production value in Nexico. A reasonable index of the
net effect of these changes on the sector as a whole is the average of the
net change in price relative to cost, with each crop weighted by its share in
total production value of all 5 crops. (This approximates the change in the
ratio of the sum of output value from all crops to the sum of cost of
production of all crops, assuming that each crop has the same share in the
total Cost of production as it has in total output value, and that outputs do
not change.) By this measure, the profitability of agriculture would improve
by about 12.51. By an alternative measure-an index with each crop weighted
by its share in harvested area-profitability Improves by 11X.
2.        Fiscal Impact.  The impact on fiscal outlays of the Government that
would stem from adoption of the program proposed ln the fertilizer sector and
the agricultural sector reforms would come primarily from four sources.
First, by raising fertilizer prices, Fertimex would realize major increases
in revenue and would require much smaller transfers from the Treasury.
Second, the direct and indirect subsidies given to food processors to
maintain low consumer prices would be eliminated and replaced with less
costly subsidies targetted directly to needy consumers. Third, CONASUPO's
operating losses (exclusive of food subsidies and losses on foreign
denominated debt that would come from exchange movements) would be reduced to
a maximum of US$85 million per year. These operating losses result not only
from inefficiency, but also from providing services such as transportation
and storage for procured crops, without reflecting these costs in the margin
between purchase and sales price. Fourth, the elimination of pricing
policies that result in the subsidization of sugar consumption would curtail
transfers to Asucar SA de CV. All of these fiscal effects are summarized by
year in the table below. They indicate annual fiscal cost reductions ranging
from US$1,053 million to US$1,226 million, depending on the year.
3.        Consumption Impact and the Food Stamp Program.  An integral part of
the program set forth in the ASL is the substitution of food subsidies
targetted to the poor in place of global food subsidies. The Sector
Loan supports the expansion of the limited program of targetted subsidies now
in progress (funded at a level of around US$60 million per year) to an
eventual size of approximately 0.21 of GDP. The Sector Loan envisions that
the current program of food stamps for tortillas would be expanded to other
commodities and would be funded initially at around US$250 million, rising to
eventually reach approximtely 0.21 of GDP.
4.        An important question about the program as a whole is whether this
amount of targetted subsidies will be sufficient to off-set the impact of
rising food prices as domestic restrictions and distortions have been and
continue to be lifted, allowing domestic prices to reflect international
levels. Between the end of 1983 and the end of 1986, as food subsidies
declined, incresses in the prices of the consumption staples of the poor
steadily eroded their purchasing power. Based upon the purchasing patterns
of the poorest 210, an increase of approximately US$12.20 would be needed in
the per capita incomes of this group to restore their purchasing power to its
end-1983 level (see Table below).



- 64 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
Fiscal Savings from Adjustment In Agricultural and Fertilizer Sectors
(US$ MNllion)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
1. Raising fertilizer prices
over 5 years 1/                         129     182     201      286     386
2. Replacing subsidies to
processors with targetted
consumer subsidies  /                  560      578     536      480     476
3. Reduce CONASUPO's
operating losses 21                    248      248     248      248     248
4. Reform of Sugar Price Policy            116     116     116      116     116
5. Total                                1,05S   1,124   1,101   1,130   1,226
1/ Assumes that transfers to FERTIMEX will be decreased according to
schedule in Fertilizer Sector Loan documents, whereas without the
adjustment, the transfers would remain at 1986 levels (US$386 million per
year).
2/ Assumes without-project subsidies at 1985 levels. With-project subsidies
begin at US$250 million, then rise at approximately the rate required for
lowest 2 deciles to maintain purchasing power as prices of staples
increase. Because prices of some crops, notably maize, were projected to
fall between 1986 and 1988, subsidies were projected to fanl in
1988. (This causes the fiscal savings to increase in that year).
Subsidies are then projected to rise, reaching US$334 million in 1991.
Subsidies include 25X administrative cost and leakanges.
3/ Compared to 1985 levels.



- 65 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
Increase in Real Income Needed to Restore Purchasing Power of Poorest
Two Deciles Lost by Increases in Real Prices of Staples
Between October 1, 1983 and November 1, 1986
Change in    Share in          Increase in          Increase in
Food       Price (X)  Expenditure (X)  Income Needed (x)  Income Needed (US$)
Tortillas *   52           2.36               1.23                  2.3
Bread         79           1.93               1.52                  2.9
Beans         66           2.47               1.63                  3.1
Milk          18           2.48               0.45                  0.8
Eggs          73           1.98               1.45                  2.7
Sugar         49           1.66               0.81                  1.5
Vegetable Oil 20           1.43               0.29                  0.5
Beef         -23           3.62              -0.83                 -1.6
TOTAL        -            16.28               6.55                 12.2
* Includes maize dough and flour.
In addition, if domestic prices are brought to the level of world prices and
allowed to rise as world prices trend upward between 1986 and 1991, as they
are projected to do, the purchasing power of the poor will erode still
further. As displayed in Table below, projected increases in prices of
saize, rice, wheat and vegetable oil will require compensatory per capita
income increases of US$4.30.
Increase in Real Income Needed To Maintain Purchasing Power
of Poorest Two Deciles after Projected Increases
in Prices of Selected Food Crops, 1986-1991
Maize *   Rice   Wheat **   Vegetable Oil    Total
Z Total Expenditure
Represented by Crop       6.2      0.7    2.7              1.4          11.0
I Rise in Price            20       57       7              32
2 Increase in Income
Needed                    1.2      0.4    0.2             0.4            2.2
Absolute Value of
Increase in Income
Needed (US$) ****         2.3      0.8    0.4             0.8            4.3
*    Includes maize in grain, tortillas, maize flour, and maize dough.
**   Includes breads, cookies, and noodles.
*** Projected price increase of soybeans.
**** Based on per capita expenditure of around US$188.
Source:   Based on figures on expenditure from "Food Consumption and
Expenditure in Mexico and the Income Effects of the Removal of Food
Subsidies" by Cheryl W. Gray, December 12, 1986, mimeo; and per
capita expenditure figure of US$225 for bottom 3 deciles, provided
by Ma. Gray. Per capita expenditure of US$188 for poorest two
deciles was computed by using this figure and the total expenditure
figures by decile from Table 6 of the above-mentioned paper.



- 66 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
5.        Allowiing for administrative costs and leakages of 201, an initial
subsidy of abvut US$250 million, if targetted to the poorest 201 of the
population, would raise per capita income in that group by slightly over
US$12, sufficient to redress the loss in purchasing power since 1983 due to
removal of global food subsidies and other factors influencing domestic
prices. Over the subsequent 5 years, the subsidy would increase as a
percentage of GDP, if the subsidies were linked to international prices.
Again assuming costs and leakages of 202, the eventual subsidy of 0.2Z of GDP
in 1991 would raise per capita incomes in the bottom 201 by approximately
US$18 if both GDP and the target population remained at their current
levels. This would more than compensate for the increases since 1983, as
well as projected future increases in international prices. Realistically,
while both GDP and the target population would grow, GDP would most likely
grow faster, implying that a subsidy of 0.2Z of GDP would provide some
cushion for greater than expected leakages, administrative costs, and price
increases.



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
Terms of Reference of a Study on Agricultural Pricina Issues
1.       In accordance with the objectives, terms, and conditions of the
Agricultural Sector Loan, it is agreed between tha Government of Mexico and
the World Bank that a study will be undertaken of the Government's pricing
policies for crops that are Included in the guaranteed price system. The
purpose of the study will be to identify policy reforms that would minimize
the distortionary effects of governmentally established agricultural prices
while still meeting the legitimate goals of the pricing system.
2.       This study will be carried out by private contractors under the
supervision of an inter-ministerial group with representatives of SHCP,
SARH, SPP, the Bank of Mexico, and CONASUPO. A representative of SEMIP
will also be included in the supervision of the study of sugar pricing
policies.
3.       There will be four separate but related components of the study on
agricultural pricing issues, which components will be defined as follows:
A. Crop by crop analysis of the benefits and costs of
governmentally established guaranteed prices.
1. Benefits.
a) Original and current purpose of inclusion of each crop
in guarantee program, and benefits (social and
economic) derived from guarantee prices (stabilize
prices, 14mit market power of oligopsonistic buyers,
provide income support for poor regions or producers,
etc.).
b) Historical performance of system in meeting its social
and economic goals for each crop.
c) Current status of problematic situation that was the
reason for including each crop under price supports
(current market concentration of buyers, income levels
of producers, etc.).
2. Costs.
a) Fiscal cost to Government.
b) Economic costs due to deviation of prices from
economically efficient levels ($.e., border prices).
3. Distributional aspects - Identification of the principal
groups that would gain or lose from removal of each crop
from the guarantee system, and quantification of gains or
losses.



- 68 -
ANNEX8
Page 2 of 6
a) Geographical distribution of gains and losses
(depending on geographical distribution of crop
production).
b) Distribution of gains and losses by income level, farm
sixe, irrigated-rainfed, etc.
4. Alternative means of achieving objectives of price
guarantee system in cost-effective ways (variable levies
to stabilize prices, anti-trust actions to make market
more competitlve, direct transfers to support incomes of
poor producers, etc.).
B. Alternatives to quantitative Importlexport restrictions in
stabilization of domestic producer prices of basic crops and
off-setting *dumped prices for agricultural commodities.
1. Effects of current system of quantitative restrictions.
a)  Purpose and goals (stabilization, reinforce guarantee
prices, off-set dumped prices, etc.).
b)  Effectiveness in meeting goals.
c)  Costs
(1) Total fiscal and economic
(1i) Distribution of costs by income level of
consumer for goods with positive protection.
2. Variable tariffs.
a)  Design and implementation in other countries (Chile,
EEC).
b)  Advantages and disadvantages relative to quantitative
restrictions (more transparent protection, less
susceptibility to political manipulation, etc.).
c)  Suggested design for Mexico.
(i)   Quantitative objectives (desired degree of
stabilization, etc.).
(ii) Mechanism.
(iii) Simulation using historical data to determine
tariff rates required to stabilize prices to the
desired degree for each crop.
(iv) Consistency with GATT and other international
obligations.



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
(v)   Implications for variable tariff scheme of
subsidized production in developed countries
(producer subsidy equivalents).
3. Anti-dumping regulations.
a) Legal implications and feasibility under GATT rules
for agricultural products.
b) Design and implementation in other countries.
c) Suggested design for Mexico.
(i)   New legislation required.
(ii) Special attention to the issue of how the system
can be made transparent and non-arbitrary.
C. Mechanism for and effects of establishing guarantee prices
that would approximate market-determined prices.
1. Linkage of guarantee prices to world market by setting
guarantee prices uithin a band around international
prices.
a) Appropriateness of comparing domestic prices with
International prices (appropriate comparators--
including extent of substitutability between
internationally traded and domestic varieties;
geographic sources for comparable commodities;
adjustments for international transport costs where
relevant; adjustments for costs of internal transport,
processing margins, and quality differences to make
domestic and international prices comparable; and
extent of Mexico's influence on international prices).
b) Appropriateness of establishing floor and/or ceiling
for the band, and appropriate level for such floor
and/or ceiling.
c) For the special cases of maize and beans, conslstency
of specific levels of price band ceilings with poverty
alleviation of both producers and consumers, subsidy
control and minimizatLon of storage costs.
2. Adjustment of prices over time.
a) Description and effects of current system, including
path of real guarantee price for each crop monthly
since 1980, and monthly pattern of deliveries from
producers to buyers.



- 70 -
Page 4 of 6
b) Calculation of -ex mt economic rate of rCturn to
*torlng crops - monthly Nad yerly - for each crop
since 1980.
C)  Caleulation of price adjustmetnt for each crop that
would have been necessary to make private storage
viable (1.., cower inflation and th. cost of storage)
- thi wi11 require estimtes of storage costs.
d) Design of prlcing adjustment mechanism that would
encourage private storoge (on-frm and off-farm)t
effects of implementing system, including the effect
on production timLng decisions and estimate of savings
to Government If private sector assumes greater
responslbility for storage.
3. Geographically differentiated pricing.
a) Principle of geographically differentiated pricing -
difference between farugato price and sales price to
processor or consimer must be sufficient to cover
transport and handling margins, so In areas from which
transportation to processing or consumption centers is
more costly, farmgate prices should be lower.
b) Calculation of transport cost from different
production areas to processing or consumption centers;
estimation of what farmgate prices should be to cover
transport costs.
c) Comparlson of economically efficient farmgate prices
(as estimated in (b)) to actual prices; implicit
subsidy or tax for each area (subsidy or tax would
equal tha product of the quantity produced in each
area and tho difference between the economically
correct price and the actual price).
d) Distributional Impact of subsidy and tax calculated in
(c).
a)  Design of system of geographlcally differentiated
prices that would encourage:
(I)  Private purchasers to become more involved In
purchasing at farmgat.
(11)  Agro-industry to locate more plants In producing
areas ratber than near consumption centers.
f) Benefits of geographically differentiated pricings
(1)  Estim_te of fiscal savigs to CONASUPO If
private sector assumes responsibility for
purchasing more of the crop.



- 71 -
ANNE 8
Page 5 of 6
(11) Economic efficitncy.
D. sugar pricing pollcy.
1. Analysis of the existing system
a) Prices at different parts of the production chain are
determined by separate and unrelated criteria; the
different procedures followed will be described in
detail.
b) Disequilibria in the system are resolved by subsidios
via credit, production and marketing costs; the
transfer of fiscal resources to the sector will be
analysed in detail.
c) Can purchase by the mills is based on the provisions
of the Decreto Canero of 1979; the existing practices
would be analysed, and differences in practices
between regions and mills detailed.
d) The Interactions between decision-makers and interest
groups in government, Industry and agriculture would
be analysed, their motives and objectives described,
and an assessment made of the potential gainersllosers
in a process of rationalisation and change.
2. Scope for change
a) The stated objective of the Convenlo and the Programa
de Reconverslon is the achievement of financial self-
sufflciency, and It s explileitly recognised that the
design and lmplementation of an lntegrated pric
policy Is essential. The range of options open will
be analysed with detailed consideration of systems in
operation in other major sugar producing and exporting
countries.
b)  The policy ultimately adopted should allow Mexico to
exploit its comparative advantage in sugar production.
The role to be played by the world sugar economy In
the definition of domestic pollcy would be analysed in
detail. The international market, in spite of major
imperfections, represents the opportunlty cost of
acquirlng or disposing of sugar and Mexico's long-term
economic interests will be best served by explicitly
recognising the signals generated in the world sugar



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
economy. The study would consider how best to
generate an appropriate border price based on long-run
prices in International trade and establish a formula
for maintaining it up-to-date.
c) The study would include an analysis of the world sugar
economy and prospects for the medium and long-term
(i.e., up to 2000).
d) Projections of domestic demand under different price
assumptions would be made, and a comparison drawn with
total supply (based on present process capacity and
attainable output and productivity targets).
e) The study would consider the alternative schemes
available for cane purchase by the mills based on
sucrose content and cane quality, including
premia/penalties, testing systems, the appropriateness
of pan-territorial pricing and differences in
technical capacities of factories to extract sucrose.
f) The study will consider the appropriateness of
targetting subsidies to the poor and the implications
of this for the sugar marketing system.
3. Recommendations
The study will make specific recommendations on the following:
a) The appropriate method for determining a border
reforence price, the translation of the price to ex-
factory levels; the methods available to defend the
price during periods of low world prices; and the
degree of and mechanism for assistance (if any) to be
given to producers exporting at low world prices;
b) The appropriate method of determining consumer and
end-user prices, assuming the continued existence of
the present monopsonistic marketing structure, which
would avoid any transfer of fiscal resources;
c) The most effective and efficient means of targetting
consumption subsidies for sugar to an identified
section of the population and its estimated fiscal
cost; and
d)  The appropriate method or methods for purchasing cane
based on quality and sucrose content.



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Agriculture Sector Objectives of the
Mexican Government, 1987 - 1988
The Mexican Government has assigned a high priority to rural
areas. The Governmental Policy of Integrated Rural Development has as a
fundamental purpose the improvement of social welfare of the rural population
and increasing the levels of production, employment and income, through an
increase in the efficiency of agrlcultural production, agroindustrial
processing, and marketing. In addition, it established strengthening of food
sovereignty of the country as one of the principle objectives.
To achieve this, the Mexican Government has enacted a group of
actions oriented toward rationalizing the subsidies to food and agricultural
inputs; toward liberalizing external trade for agriculture and agroindustry;
toward rationalizing pricing policies for producers and consumers; and toward
a selective participation of the public sector in the production, marketing,
storage, and distribution of agriculture and livestock products.
During this year and the next, the Government intends to
strengthen and consolidate the policy developed during the last years. In
addition, it is proposed to maintain an adequate program of investment and to
provide basic support services in an efficient and decentralized manner.
Specifically, the program of the Government in this period is oriented toward
achieving a solid program of public investments, based on economic and social
criteria; toward making more efficient the basic services provided by
government agencies, through their restructuring and decentralization so that
a higher proportion of personnel will be in direct contact with farmers;
Increasing the efficiency of storage, processing, distribution, and
marketing, considering if it is necessary to liquidate or privatize
parastatal enterprises; giving a greater role to market mechanisms in the
formation of agricultural product prices at the producer and consumer levels;
expanding the opportunities of farmers to export their products and import
inputs; giving the private sector better access to importing; diminishing the
subsidies to agricultural inputs, such as water and fertilizer, and to
interest rates for agricultural and livestock sector credit; and eliminating
global consumer subsidies, maintaining selective subsidies for the population
of lower income in rural and urban areas, with the purpose of protecting
their purchasing power.
The Mexican Government has made important advances toward the
achievement of the objectives indicated. What has been done to date and the
actions that will be carried out in the rest of the current sexenio are
presented in the attached table (Annex 5).



- 74 -
Aaesz L
Page 1 of 3
Steps Recommended to Strengthen Food Subsidy Programs
I. Tortibono food distribution progrsm - For Urban Are"s.
A. CONASUPO/DISCONSA unit in charge of the distribution and
monitoring be strengthened to do the following:
1) reassess eligibility of current participants, and
2) reassess eligibility every 6 months.
B. Criteria for eligibility of participants be reduced to 1.5
inimum wages in urban areas.
1) More rigorous criteria of economic well-beiug be developed
to eventually replace definitions of eligibility in term of
of only wage income.
2) Review eligibility criteria with respect to budgetary
allocations.
C. Impact of program be re-assessed.
1) Household level surveys be conducted to assess impact of
program on food consumption and real incomes (see attached
outline for study).
Do Price of Tortibonos be linked to price of tortillas so as to
maintain constant subsidy per beneficiary.
E. Study be conducted to examine whether certain basic food stuffs
should be nutritionally fortified.
II.  Food Subsidies for the Rural Poor
A. DICONSA rural stores be center for rural food subsidies
through price discounts given from ration cards or iatroduction of
system of food stamps.
(i)   Local DICONSA committee and/or IMSS/Coplamr committees
screen applicants (basic eligibility criteria based upon
socLo-economic and when possible anthropometric indicators).
(li)  Availability be for 5 to 8 months when food and mployment
are the most scarce (generally April througb September are
the most critical).
(iii)  Eligibility be reassessed each year.
(iv) Nutrition and health education be included in the program
for eligible participants.



- 75 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
D. Rural network be upgraded.
(i) Transportation, storage and working capital requiremnts of
rural network be reviewed and supplemented as needed.
III. )onitorin  Food Securitg and Nutrition
A. Plan for a continuous food consumpltion program be finalized
for both urban and rural areas.
(i) INCO in collaboration with other relevant agencies be given
responsibility for designing and implementing the
program.



- 76 -
Annex 10
Pag. 3 of 3
Proposed Outline of Study of the
Existing Food Stamp ("Tortibono") Program
Justification: There is no reliable information on the impact of
the program on real incomes, food consumption and nutrition among the various
population groups. Such information would be useful for decision-making on
future program modifications and implementation. Decisions on coverage. size
of subsidy per household, distribution channels, commodities to be covered
and related issues would benefit from information on who is currently
benefitting and the impact of current and alternative program formulations.
The program has now operated for more than a year and enough exprience has
been gained for such a study to be successful.
Objectives: The objectives of the study would be: (1) to evaluate
the impact of the existing program by stamp distribution channel
(DICONSA, LICONSA, Labor Unions, Coabastos, community associations) on real
incomes, food consumption and nutritional status of each of a predetermined
number of households groups, (2) to assess the magnitude of leakage to
households with incomes above two minimum wages, and (3) to explore how
alternative programs or program formulation might affect impact, leakage, and
cost-effectiveness.
Methodology: The study should be based on data collected by
household surveys and surveys of agencies which ,6ssue stamps. The household
surveys should cover random samples of households for each of the stamp
distribution channels and samples of similar households not participating,
e.g. households on waiting lists. Data should be collected on dietary
patterns, food acquisition, total expenditures, incomes, household
demography, weight and height of preschoolers, and other variables to be
determined. Data analysis should be based on multiple regression. The
survey of stamp issuing agencies should cover a random sample of each of the
four major types (DICONSA, LICONSA, Labor Unions, community associations).
Data should be collected on procedures and criteria used to determine
household eligibility, controls, and other process variables.



- 77 -
ANNEX 11
-~ ~ ~~"Mi   m    myn M.S. M bililo                       gR
Tyep  of FlowlSoure                        Amount  Pro   nplCurrent                  Torms
Status         oturit/race   Interest Note
(YTer)  
Now money                                   lO 7
Tom-mrcii l  nanks                        j6 0f        44
(Parallel New Monoy Fcility - I       (6.03!}      8.42/             12/5         LIBORt * 13/16
(Co I noeIng N w Money F cilIty - It  (l.9)         1.0               16/9         LIBOR * 18/10
Multilateral Development Banks            2.7
(TMRO)                                 (2.8)!&      1  4
(IDS)                                 (f 41        10.
IMF Stand-by                              *.4 5       0.8
Japan                                     I.'/        0 t
ccc                                       0.          9.8 (as of 6/39/07)
Cont;n nt Momn                               2.3
aroial sanks
(Investment Support Facility - IV)    (1.2)         Cnce llod (12/   8/4           LIBOR * 13/16
(Growth Cotinancing Facility - III)   (9.S1 I               10/67)  .12/7           .IBOR * 18/16
IMF Oil Contingency Mechanicm              .8            _
Debt Restruetrint                           7096
Coumorcil Banks                          087
(Pre-198B Debt)                       (48.7)                         29/7          LIBOR * 13/10
(1988-84 Debt)                         (6.8)                          14/5         LIBOR * 13/16
(Private FICORCA Debt)                (11.2)        Terms comparsble to those covering renegotiated
public debt.
(Interbank Credit Lines)               (5 21        Level to be m*intaiond until 6/3/89/.
Paris Club                                1.85        10/6  Appropriate market rats.
/  Disbursements contingent upon compliance with IMV stand-by and processing  p eitic World Bank
loans, closing date is June 80, 1988.
V/  Sum to be reduced quarterly by the amount Mexico saves as a reult of the shift from a prime rate to
a LIBOR reference rate and lower spresds on restructure debt during 1987. Reduction through
12/81/87 aount  to US1.9 -1.1 bilIon, leaving a balance of about US2O.6 billion.
8/ 8-loan cofinanelg with World Bank transport sector loans.  A non-accelerable World Bank loan
guarantee for US5690 million is also provided.
4/  Includes an estimated present value of US$200 mtillea for two World Bank guarantes totalling US$760
million. Drawings shown represwnt net disbursments both for IBRD and IDB.
S/  The IMF stand-by would provide SOR 1.4 billion in gross financing over the period of October 1, 1988
to March 81, 1988. At current SDR-U.S. dollar conversion rates, this would amount to approximately
US$1.7 billion; the net transfer has been estimated at US60.4 billion.
6/ Includew cofTnancing of US9260 million (10/8/87) with the World Bank Second Export Dovelopment
Policy Loan, US2590 million (7/27/87) for steel projects, and USS608 million (8/6/87) for the
the Pacific Potroloum Project; these dollar equivolents for the Y200 billion facility are based
on Y269.9=US81.00 fixed In the Exlm Japan/Mexico agreement.
7/  Covered by a US8260 million non-accelerable loan guarantee of the World Sank, none drawn to date,
with closing date of March 31, 1988.
8/  The IMF commitment is for the lesser of SDR800 million or US$68 million,
but conditions for drawing have not been met and It Is unlikely that any would be drawn.
9/  Rescheduling of 19OX of the principal and SOX of tho interest falling due on debt outstanding as of
the end of 1986 during the period of October 1, 1988 to Morch 31, 1988.
Source: I8RD staff estimates.
January 13, 1988



