Page  1
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2918 ME
                    Loan Agreement
              (Agricultural Sector Loan)
                        between
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
              NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                 Dated March 15, 1988
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2918 ME
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1988, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the
Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated
February 25, 1988 (the Agricultural Sector Policy
Letter), from the UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor)
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to promote greater efficiency and higher
productivity in the Guarantor's agricultural and
agro-industrial sectors (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
the financing of imported goods required during such
execution;
Page  2
     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and
     (C)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided, in support of the Program, to provide
such assistance to the Guarantor by making the Loan to
the Borrower in tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, (the General Conditions) with the modifications
thereof set forth below constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
and
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
               "(c) Not later than six months after the
          Closing Date such later date as may be agreed
          for this purpose between the Borrower and the
          Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor shall
          prepare and furnish to the Bank a joint
          report, of such scope and in such detail as
          the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
          execution of the Program referred to in the
          Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the carrying
          out of the Project, the performance by the
          Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank of their
          respective obligations under the Loan and
          Guarantee Agreements and the accomplishment of
          the purposes of the Loan."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SARH" means the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Water Resources (Secretariat de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos) of the Guarantor;
     (b)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series, No. 341
Rev. 3 (1986);
     (c)  "tortibonos" means food coupons redeemable in
tortillas, established by ministerial regulations,
distributed as part of one of the Guarantor's food
assistance programs to low-income populations;
     (d)  "ORB" means quantitative restrictions placed by
the Guarantor on imported goods and materials;
     (e)  Official Reference Prices means the reference
prices for imported goods and materials published by the
Guarantor;
Page  3
     (f)  "Non-tariff Barriers" means any form of
restriction, other than the levy of a tariff, on imports,
including, inter alia, ORB and restrictions by means of
Official Reference Prices and import permits;
     (g)  "Pacto de Solidaridad Economica" means the
Economic Solidarity Pact signed on December 15, 1987 by
the Guarantor, representatives of farmer and labor
organizations, and the private sector establishing a
system for setting and maintaining prices of certain
products and commodities; and
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the
Guarantor, beginning of January 1 of each year.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars
($300,000,000).
     Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1989 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one half per cent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.
          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
Page  4
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
              Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                    Other Covenants
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the Guarantor providing, inter alia: (a) for the transfer
to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) for
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such
funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the
Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges
on the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any
provision of such arrangements.
     Section 3.02.  The Borrower and the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement,
shall quarterly, and at the request of either party,
exchange views with the Bank on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, the Project and the actions
specified in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall he governed by the provisions
of schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain, or
cause to be maintained, separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, a
               certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said accounts
                    and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
Page  5
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts or other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are
               included in the annual audits referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report thereof contain, in respect of
               such separate accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether
               the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in
               respect of such expenditures were used
               for the purposes for which they were
               provided.
                       ARTICLE V
                       Remedies
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that a situation has occurred which
shall make lt improbable that the Program, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                      ARTICLE VI
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  that the contractual arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall have been
executed; and
     (b)  that the Guarantor shall have provided to the
Bank evidence that its macro-economic policy framework is
consistent with the Program.
     Section 6.02.  The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement have been executed and delivered
on behalf of the parties thereto and are legally binding
upon them in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date June 14, 1988, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Page  6
                      ARTICLE VII
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Director Internacional of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          9  Piso
          Torre Sur
          CP. 01020, Mexico D.F.
          Mexico
     Cable address:                              Telex:
          NAFIN                          NAFIME 1775765
          Mexico City                           1775629
                                            Mexico City
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
     Cable address:                              Telex:
          INTABRAFD                     440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused the Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                         Regional Vice President
                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Page  7
                    By /s/ Eduardo Amezcua Lagunas
                         Authorized Representative
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the
reasonable cost of imported goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the
following SITC groups or sub-groups, or any successor
groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC,
as designated by the Bank by notice to the borrower:
    Group      Sub-group       Description of Items
    112            -           Alcoholic beverages
    121            -           Tobacco, unmanufactured
                               tobacco refuse
    122            -           Tobacco, manufactures
                               (whether or not
                               containing tobacco
                               substitutes)
    525            -           Radioactive and
                               associated materials
    667            -           Pearls, precious and
                               semi-precious stones,
                               unworked or worked
    718          718.7         Nuclear reactors, and
                               parts thereof, fuel
                               elements (cartridges),
                               non-irradiated for
                               nuclear reactors
    897          897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver
                               or platinum group metals
                               (except watches and
                               watch cases) and
                               goldsmiths' or
                               silversmiths' wares
                               (including set gems)
     -           971.0         Gold, non-monetary
                               (excluding gold ores and
                               concentrates)
    (b)   payments made for expenditures for goods prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$60,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 22,
1987;
    (c)   expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor
or for goods supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor;
Page  8
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under
contracts costing less than the equivalent of $10,000;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a
contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military
or para-military purpose, or for luxury consumption;
    (g)   expenditures for goods the importation of
which is subject to Non-tariff Barriers in Mexico; and
the Bank.
    (h)   expenditures for pesticides which are not
acceptable to
3.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment
shall be entered into to pay amounts to, or on the
order of, the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:
    (a)   after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of $25,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that:
    (i)   the Guarantor shall have removed export
          controls on high-quality rice and quality
          cuts of beef except as required by hygienic
          reasons;
    (ii)  the Guarantor shall have provided to the
          Bank terms of reference satisfactory to the
          Bank for carrying out the studies described
          in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Part B of
          the Project; and
    (iii)       the Borrower shall have provided to
                the Bank procedures, satisfactory to
                the Bank, for coordinating the payment
                of expenditures for imported goods and
                the processing of requests for
                disbursements under the Loan and other
                loans made by the Bank providing for
                the financing of imported goods; and
    (b)   after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of $100,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank:
    (i)   with the progress achieved by the Guarantor in
          carrying out the Program;
    (ii)  that the actions described in the Schedule to
          the Guarantee Agreement have been taken; and
    (iii)       that the macro-economic policy framework
                of the Guarantor is consistent with the
                Program.
4.  If, after an exchange of views described in
paragraph 3 above, the Bank shall have given notice to
Page  9
the Guarantor, that the progress achieved or actions
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after
such notice, the Guarantor shall not have achieved
progress or taken actions in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower
and the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support
the implementation of the Guarantor's Program; and (ii)
to promote efficient use of agricultural resources and
improve the provision of agricultural and food products
to low-income populations.
    The Project consists of the following parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Bank and
the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to
achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports
    The financing of general imports in support of the
Program.
Part B:   Studies
    The carrying out of studies of:
    (a)   expansion of nutritional programs to buffer
the impact on low-income populations of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic adjustment program, and of nutritional
monitoring in both rural and urban areas;
    (b)   the guarantee price system in Mexico,
including issues of pan-territorial and pan-seasonal
pricing, and variable tariffs;
    (c)   sugar pricing policy, including cane, f.o.b.
mill and consumer prices, so as to reduce subsidies and
promote greater efficiency in the agricultural sector;
and
    (d)   charges for water used in agriculture with
the objective of implementing a system of adequate
water charges for purposes of recovery of operating and
maintenance costs.
                        *  *  *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June
30, 1989.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                                 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars)*
Page  10
On each June 15 and December 15
    beginning December 15, 1991
    through December 15, 2002             12,500,000
On June 15, 2003                          12,500,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and
4.03.
                 Premiums on Prepayment
    The following premiums are specified for the
purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                                 The interest rate
                                 (expressed as a
                                 percentage per annum)
                                 applicable to the
                                 balance outstanding
                                 on the Loan on the
                                 day of prepayment
                                 multiplied by:
Not more than three years
    before maturity                     0.20
More than three years but
    not more than six years
    before maturity                     0.40
More than six years but
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity                     0.73
More than 11 years but not
    more than 13 years
    before maturity                     0.87
More than 13 years
    before maturity                     1.00
                      SCHEDULE 4
                      Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
Page  11
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted
and the following is substituted there for:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be
     notified in a timely manner of the opportunity to
     bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
     to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation
     list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be placed in at least
     one newspaper of general circulation in the
     Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least
     one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations
                publication, Development Forum,
                Business Edition; or
          (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper,
                periodical or technical journal of
                wide international circulation; or
          (iii) a notice to local representatives of
                countries and territories referred to
                In the Guidelines, that are potential
                suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at the end of
paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents
     may require the bidder to state the bid price in
     a single currency widely used in international
     trade and specified in the bidding documents.
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be
awarded on the basis of the normal procurement
procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications
in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3 and
4 shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
Page  12
contracts shall be retained in accordance with section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
