Page  1
                                                 February 4, 1990
Dr. Pedro Aspe Armella
Minister of Finance
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio, Mariano, 4o Piso
06066 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico.
Mr. Juan Jose Paramo
Director General
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Sur, 9o.  Fiso
CP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico.
Dear Sirs:
      Re:   Loan No. 2918-ME (Agricultural Sector Loan) - Amendment
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated March 15, 1988 for
the above-referred Loan (the "Loan Agreement") between International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) , and to the Guarantee Agreement
of even date therewith between the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Bank ("the Guarantee Agreement").
      In response to your request and the discussions between our
respective representatives, we are pleased to inform you that the
Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
agreement for the purpose of setting aside a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement for the
implementation of a debt reduction plan of the Guarantor.
      Accordingly, the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement as follows:
I.    Loan Agreement
      A.    Preamble
            (i)   A new paragraph (B) is added after paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
                  "(B) it is contemplated that the Guarantor may
                  require assistance from the Bank in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan (as
                  hereinafter defined);".
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (B) and (C) are relettered as
"(C)" and "(D)II respectively.
      B.    Section 1,02
            (i)   A new paragraph (g) is added after paragraph (f)
to read as follows:
                  "(g) "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the
                  Guarantor submitted to the Bank for partial
                  funding under this Agreement to reduce the
                  Guarantor's principal payments on its external
                  loans from non-official creditors;"
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (g) and (h) are relettered "(h)"
and (i)" respectively.
Page  2
      C.    Article III
            (i)   A new Section 3.04 is added after Section 3.03 to
read as follows:
                  "Section 3.04. Subject to agreement by the
                  Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank on the terms
                  and conditions to be applied in such case, the
                  Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds of the
                  Loan as provided in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
                  for the implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan
                  under Part C of the Project described in Schedule
                  2 to this Agreement."
      D.    Schedule 1
            (i)   Paragraph 1 is deleted and the following
substituted therefor:
                  "1. The table below sets forth the Categories of
                  items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
                  Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan
                  to each Category and the percentage of
                  expenditure for items so to be financed in each
                  Category:
                        Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated                % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
       Category         Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Imported goods      125,000,000             100% of foreign
    under Part A                                expenditures
    of the Project
(2) Debt Reduction      175,000,000             To be agreed by
    Plan                                        the Bank, the
                                                Guarantor and the
                                                Borrower, subject
                                                to paragraph 5 below
      For purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Guarantor for goods supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Guarantor."
            (ii)  The first four lines of paragraph 3 preceding
clause (a) thereof are deleted and the following substituted
therefor:
                  "3. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 5
                  hereunder, no withdrawal shall be made and no
                  commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts
                  to, or on the order of, the Borrower in respect
                  of expenditures to be financed out of the
                  proceeds of the Loan under Category 1:".
            (iii) The first six lines of clause (a) of paragraph 3
preceding sub-clause (i) thereof are deleted and the following
substituted therefor:
                  "(a) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
                  Loan withdrawn under Category 1 from the Loan
                  account and the total amount of such commitments
                  shall have reached the equivalent of $25,000,000
                  for Part A-of the Project, unless the Bank shall
                  be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                  described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based
                  on evidence satisfactory to the Bank that:".
Page  3
            (iv)  The first six lines of clause (b) of paragraph 3
preceding sub-clause (i) thereof are deleted and the following
substituted therefor:
                  "(b) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
                  Loan withdrawn under Category 1 from the Loan
                  account and the total amount of such commitments
                  shall have reached the equivalent of $100,000,000
                  for Part A of the Project, unless the Bank shall
                  be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                  described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based
                  on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:".
            (v)   New paragraphs 5 and 6 are added to read as
follows:
                  "5. If an agreement by the Bank, the Guarantor
                  and the Borrower for the use of the portion of
                  the proceeds of the Loan designated for the
                  implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan shall
                  not have been entered into by May 31, 1990 or
                  such later date as approved by the Bank, then the
                  amount of $175,000,000 under.Category 2 shall, at
                  the request of the Borrower and the Guarantor, be
                  reallocated to Category 1 for Part A of the
                  Project.
                  6. The provisions of this Schedule are without
                  prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.04 of
                  the Loan Agreement."
      E.    Schedule 2
            (i)   The objectives stated in the first paragraph are
amended by deleting the word "and" at the end of clause (i) thereof,
by deleting the period at the end of the paragraph and substituting
the following there or:
                  "; and (iii) if so determined under Section 3.04
                  of this Agreement, to assist the Guarantor in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan."
            (ii)  A new Part C of the Project is added after Part B
to read as follows:
                  "Part C: Debt Reduction Plan
                  Assistance to the Guarantor in the implementation
                  of a Debt Reduction Plan which, in the judgment
                  of the Guarantor and of the Bank, shall meet the
                  requirements of the Bank's support of debt
                  reduction."
      II.   Guarantee Agreement
      A.    Preamble
            (i)   A new paragraph (B) is added after paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
                  "(B) it is contemplated that the Guarantor may
                  require assistance from the Bank in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan; and"
            (ii)  Former paragraph (B) is relettered as "(C)".
      B.    Article III
            (i)   A new Section 3.05 is added after Section 3.04 to
read as follows:
                  "Section 3.05. The Guarantor  shall,  if  so
Page  4
                  determined  under Section 3.04 of the Loan
                  Agreement, carry out Part C of the Project with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in  conformity
                  with appropriate commercial, administrative and
                  financial practices and shall provide,  promptly
                  as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                  other resources required for the Project."
            (ii)  A new Section 3.06 is added after  Section  3.05
to  read  as follows:
                  "Section 3.06.  The Guarantor shall take all
                  actions as shall be required for  implementing
                  the  provisions  under  Section 3.04 of the Loan
                  Agreement."
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This
Amendment may be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall
be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully
executed original to us.  This amendment will be effective as of the
date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed
original of this Amendment.
                         Very truly yours,
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                      By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                          Vice President
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/
  Authorized Representative
Date: February 4, 1990
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/
  Authorized Representative
Date:  February 4, 1990
