Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rport No. 7722
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
APRIL 7, 1989
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and Caribbean Region and
Africa Technical lepartment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENTROMIN   -  Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru
(Central Mining Company of Peru)
COFIDE      -  Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
DAP         -  Diamonium Phosphate
HIERROPERU  -  Empresa Hierro del Peru
(Iron Company of Peru)
IMF         -  Internatiouial Monetary Fund
INI         -  Instituto Nacional de Industria
(National Industrial Institute of Spain)
MINEROPERU  -  Empresa Minera del Peru
(Mining Company of Peru)
PROBAYOVAR  -  Empresa Promotora Bayovar
(Bayovar Promotional Company)
SPCC        -  Southern Peru Copper Corporation
TPY         - Metric Tons Per Year
TSP         -  Triple Super Phosphate
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Inti (I/.)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1979      US$1 = I/.        0.224
1980      US$l = I/.        0.288
1981      US$1 = I/.        0.422
1982      US$1 = Il.        0.698
1983      US$l - I/.        1.629
1984      US$1 - I/.        3.467
1985      US$1 = I/.       10.975
1986      US$1 = I/.       13.949
1987      US$1 = I/.       16.839
1988      US$1 - I/.       33.000 (April 1988)
FISCAL YSAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OVICA USE OLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
April 12, 1989
umaAmDU( TO TEL EXCUTJVE DIECTORRS AID THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Peru - Bayovar Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 1888-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
gProject Completion Report on Peru - Bayovar Phospnate Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 1888-PE)l prepared by the Trade, Finance
and Industry Division, Country Department IV, Latin American and Caribbean
Region and Africa Technical Technical Department. Full evaluation of this
project has not been made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
Tfhis document hss a metricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pCrrrfoace
of their olic:al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wcrld Bank autborhtion.



FOR OFmFCUIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..* * * ...**  **** *********...................  ... ....
Basic Data Sheet ..... . . . .... ...... ... , ....... ....                   ii
Htighligphts ...................                                              iv
I.    Introduction ......................1
Economic Environment and Sectoral Performance .......                 1
Mining Sector ........... 0............................ . . 3
Phosphate Industry. .......             ..      .........             5
II.   Project Preparation and Appraisal Objectives ....5
Preparation ...   **...........     ....5
Empresa Promotora Bayovar S.A. (PROBAYOVAR)  .**e**.                  6
PROBAYOVAR Shareholders .............................                 7
Major Issues Discussed during Loan Preparation and
Negotiations ....................7
(a) Project Scope and Configuration           .......              7
(b) PROBAYOVAR Sharholder's Agreement .............                8
(c) Market for Phosphate Fertilizers ..............                8
(d) Bank Commitment          ..................                    8
(e) Foreign Exchange Financing ......8...........                  8
(f) Loan Processing Period 8       ....       ...........          8
(g) Retroactive Financing ..................                       8
Appraisal Objectives ........ .......................                   9
ftrlt.- Phase .....................9
Second Phase            ...............                              10
Project Cost and Financing ............................                11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.d)
Page No.
III.  Project Implementation and Management .................         11
Achievement of First ?hase Project Objectives .........         11
Implementation of the Second Phase ....................         12
Achievement of First Phase Project Objectives .........         13
The Phosphate Market Development ......................         14
Project Management .... *..... ........ ... ........ ...        16
Performance of Consultants ............................         16
Role of the Bank         ......................................  16
Reallocation of Loan Proceeds   .........................       17
Total Project Cost ......  ..................                   17
Disbursements . .................... ... ........ *.  * * * * .  17
IV.   Conclusions .........******.***** .**.....*........            '-8
Overall Assessment ... ....................  .............      18
Lessons Learned ......... .. .. . .. . .................................  19
ANNEXS
1 - PPOBAYOVARs  Appraisal Project Cost .....................         21
2 - PROBAYOVAR:  Estimated Cost of Phosphate Investment  .....        22
3 - PROBAYOVAR: World Supply/Demand for Phosphate Fertilizer          23
4 - PROBAYOVAR:  Phosphate Prices   ........  ............... .       24
5 - PROBAYOVAR:  Original, Revised and Actual Allocation of
Loan Proceeds ............................        25
6 - PROBAYOVAR:  Total Estimate and Actual Cost .............         26
/ - Glossary of Technical Terms .............................         27
8 - Conments Received from the Government and PROBAYOVAR ....         28
MAP: IBRD 15062



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the performance of
the BAYOVAR Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Loan to the
Republic of Peru channeled to Empresa Promotora Bayovar S.A. (PROBAYOVAR).
As part of the Bank's first support in Peru to phosphate exploitation and
processing, PROBAYOVAR was created in 1980 to carry out the project.
Loan 1888-PE for US$7.5 million was approved on June 26, 1980, and
declared effective on December 22, 1980. The original closing date
(June 30, 1983) was postponed three times to June 30, 1986.  The tota'
amount disbursed was US$4.96 million. The undisbursed balance of US$2.54
million was cancelled on July 16, 1986.
Prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division of
the Country Department IV, Latin American and Caribbean Region and Africa
Technical Department, this report reviews the implementation of the loan,
based upon data from the project documents and files at the Bank. The last
supervision of the project was carried out in May, 1986, and no Bank
mission visited Peru for the purpose of preparing the Project Completion
Report. The Borrower did not prepare a draft completion report.
Comments on this report were received from the Government and
PROBAYOVAR. The essential conclusions of these comments are reflected in
the report and a translation of the comments has been annexed.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
BASIC DATA SHT
(US$ millions)
LOAN STATUS
---As of 02/29/88---
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid   Outstanding
Loan No. 1888-PE      7.5       4.96        2.54        3.76       1.20
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  DEC. 86
(i) Estimated           1.7    6.2    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5
(ii) Actual              0.9    2.5    3.1    3.8    4.4    4.9    4.96
(iii) (ii) as Z of (i)   52.92  40.31  41.3Z  50.6?  58.6?  65.32  66.1?
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original
Plan         Actual
Project Appraisal                                  01/11180      01/11180
Board Approval                                     06/26/80      06/26/80
Loan Signing                                       08121180      08/21/80
Loan Effectiveness                                 09/00/80      12/22/80
Loan Closing                                       06/30/83      06/30/86
Completion of First Phase a/                       12/30/82      06/30/82
Borrower:          Government of Peru
Executing Agency: Empresa Promotora Bayovar
a/   The first phase was completed by mid-1982, but the second phase, after
encountering a delay of 3 years, did not fully materialize and
therefore the balance of US$2.54 million was cancelled.



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Mouthl   No. of   No. of    Staff    Date of
Items                       Year      Weeks   Persons   Weeks    ReDorts
Identification                     07179       1         2         2     08103179
Appraisal                          01/80       1         2         2     02/08/80
Appraisal Follow-up                03/80       1         1         1     03117/80
Appraisal Follow-up (Spain)        04180      112        2         1          n.a.
Supervision   I                    10/80       1         1         1     10120/80
Supervision  II                    02182      1/2        2         1         n.a.
Supervision III                    06182       1         2         2     07113/82
Supervision  IV                    10185      1/2        2         1     10/25/85
Sutpervision   V                   02/86       1         2        2      03/11/86
Supervision  VI                    05186      0.3        1       0.3    05130186
STAFF IWUT
(Umuweks)
FY77 FY78 FY70 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY68  FY84 Fyas FYU  FY37 afll TOTAL
PrapprTonla     -    -    - 21.9    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   21.9
Appraisal       -    -    -  1.0    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    1.0
N"otiation      -    -    -  4.8    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4.8
Supervision     -    -    -    -  9.6 18.4  2.8  6.6  8.6 10.4  2.0  7.7   54.9
TOTAL         -    -    - 27.7  9.5 18.4  2.6  5.6  8.s 10.4  2.0  7.?   82.0



- lv -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The Loan under review in this report was to support the Government
of Peru to determine the technical, economic and financial viability of
developing the large Sechura desert phosphate deposits, estimated to
contain ore resources of as much as ten billion tonnes (approximately 15Z
of the world's total). The Loan was for US$7.5 million to finance the
foreign costs of the project, with a total estimated cost of US$9.5
million.
2.       Although the existence of phosphate deposits in the Bayovar area
had been known for a long time, serious interest in their exploitation
arose in the mid-1970's when grades of existing phosphate mines started to
decline and world demand for and traie in phosphate products offered
substantial growth prospects. During that period a preliminary study was
carried out which showed the feasibility of a project designed to produce
phosphate fertilizers ptincipally for exports. The project was based on
mining and beneficiation of phosphate rock, conversion of the concentrate
into phosphoric acid, and production of phosphate fertilizers (para 2.01).
The total costs were estimated to range between US$700 and 800 million.
Based on these findings it was concluded that it was worth pursuing the
project idea but that further studies would be needed to determine the
optimal size and product mix for the envisaged investment. Against this
background the Bank agreed on financing the foreign exchange part of these
studies through the Loan.
3.       The project was appraised in January 1980, approved by the Board
in June 1980, and became effective in December 1980. The project consisted
of two phases. The first phase included the followings (i) studies to
determine the level of phosphate reserves, optimum mining methods, and the
most economic source of sulfuric acid for the production of phosphoric
acid; (ii) physical, chemical and acidulation tests to establish the most
economic phosphate rock treatment process as a basis for plant design;
(iii) studies to determine plant site location, water supply and other
infrastructure requirements; (iv) preparation of a market analysis and
marketing strategy; (v) a preliminary study of the feasibility of uranium
recovery from phosphate processing and exploitation of nearby potash
deposits; and (vi) preparation of a feasibility report based on the above
studies. The second phase was to finance preparation of basic engineering
and contract documents, other pre-contracting activities and a study of
project organization if the feasibility report confirmed the technical and
economic viability of the Bayovar investment project (paras. 2.09-2.15).
The executing agency for the project was PROBAYOVAR.



4.       During the initial period the project w&s implemented smoothly and
on schedule. By mid-1982 consultants contracted by PROBAYOVAR submitted
the main feasibility study and by the end of that year the first phase of
the project could be considered virtually completed. The main result of
the study was a detailed project proposal in three stages to allow for
gradual penetration of the export market. The first stage, based on
production of 1.5 million tpy of phosphate rock and conversion of part of
it to fertilizers, was in itself economically viable, showing a rate of
return of 13.5t, and requiring US$700 million in investments (para. 3.01).
The Bank agreed with the conclusions of the feasibility study, considered
the first phase of the project completed and approved start of the second
phase. The drawback of the study on the first stage investment was its
reliance on overly optimistic projections for fertilizer prices, which
raised doubts about the viability of the investment in a weakening market.
5.       The second phase of the project was initially oriented towards
promotional work to attract an experienced and competent technical partner
for the proposed investment. In the beginning of the 1980's, however, the
market prospects for phosphate fertilizers deteriorated considerably due to
accumulating overcapacity and slower than expected demand growth (para.
3.11). Moreover, during the same period Peru's economic situation worsened
and with it the investment climate. These two developments made the
promotional efforts difficult and slow and prompted PROBAYOVAR to hire an
investment banking firm to provide financial advice for conducting
discussions with foreign partners and negotiating joint venture agreements.
In order to provide additional incentives the Government agreed to assume
direct responsibility for the infrastructure required by the proposed
investment (para. 3.03). As a result of these measures the promotional
activities finally showed success in early 1984 (after delays of about 18
months) when three potential foreign partners demonstrated clear interest
in the investment. A priority partner was finally selected and a
Memorandum of Understanding signed with PROBAYOVAR in mid-1984 (paras.
3.02-3.04).
6.       Given the status of the phosphate market and Peru's ecoaomic
situation, the foreign partner went with PROBAYOVAR and in coordination
with the Bank through a very detailed review of the investment proposal
which required one more year. Finally, by mid-1985 the decision was taken
that in view of the market situation the envisaged investments should be
considerably curtailed through deletion of phosphoric acid and fertilizer
facilities, concentrating only on mining and beneficiation of phosphate
rock (para. 3.04). This option brought down investment costs to US$183
million including interest during construction and initial working capital
requirements (para. 3.08). It therefore appeared a sensible solution in a
period with increasing difficulties of mobilization of financing. It also
concentrated on a product (phosphate rock) which was less difficult to
market than fertilizers and in which Peru appeared to maintain a
comparative advantage for Asian markets (para. 3.13). Finally it was an
option which in itself remained economically viable showing a rate of
return of 15X at revised price forecasts.
7.       With the change of Government in 1985, the official support for
the project and the proposed investment decreased and PROBAYOVAR's role and
resources were severly reduced (para. 3.07). The interest of the foreign



a                             - vi -
partner nevertheless remained and discussions on the appropriate
organization and financing of the proposed investment continued. Meanwhile
the Bank had extended the closing date for the Loan three times to June 30,
1986 to demonstrate its continued support of the project. Shortly before
the closing date there were encouraging signs indicating the readiness on
both sides to negotiate an association agreement. The Bank actively
supported this development trying to organize a meeting of all interested
parties in July and then again in August 1986 (para. 3.09). On both
occasions, however, the Peruvian delegation cancelled its participation on
very short notice. Contacts on the proposed investment were subsequently
broken off and the remaining funds of the Loan (US$2.5 million designated
for completion of the second phase) were cancelled. The reasons for
PROBAYOVAR's breaking off the contacts were principally: (i) insufficient
financing offered by the foreign partner, (ii) disagreements on an
appropriate association arrangement, and (iii) doubts about the Bank
Group's possible involvement in financing of the investment.
8.       The overall achievement of the project consists in its
contribution to the assessment of a major investment possibility (para.
4.01). Technical options were analyzed in detail and the feasibility of
the proposed investment evaluated. Through the project it was possible to
raise interest from foreign partners in the investment despite
deteriorating market and economic conditions (para. 4.02). Discussions
with one prospective partner even came close to the conclusion of an
association agreement. The project's final results, however, were
seriously affected by unforeseen developments (para. 4.03). The
feasibility study financed under the project analyzed investments in
fertilizer facilities during a period when the market prospects
deteriorated rapidly. Had this happened earlier or had the study been
implemented later, this particular part could have been deleted or
shortened which would have resulted in cost savings. Furthermore, the
project lost a good part of its effectiveness when official support
diminished after the change in Government in 1985. Since negotiations with
the selected foreign partner on an association agreement failed, the
project will not generate the expected results in the foreseeable future.
9.       In the longer term the efforts made under the pro4c-t may still
bear fruit (para. 4.04).  Most of the technical studies are likely to
remain valid for some time and could be updated, along with the financial
and economic evaluation, inexpensively in a short period. In fact,
PROBAYOVAR pointed out that it has, at little additional cost, brought the
existing studies for the mining investment to feasibility level. If the
markets and Peru's economic situation improve, these studies could thus be
used to revive interest in the investment. In the near future, however, it
seems highly unlikely that the investment project as conceived (production
of 1.5 million tpy beneficiated phosphate rock) can be implemented because
of the current difficulties in mobilization of financing for projects in
Peru. Fad negotiations with the foreign partner succeeded, financing of
this investment as enclave project would have appeared feasible. Without
prospective partners, the Government would have to come up with the total
equity requiring a cash contribution of about US$50 million and mobilize
loan financing for an entirely Government owned venture. This, however,
cannot be considered a realistic option, given the Government's budget
situation and Peru's restricted access to financial markets. While the
Government authorized PROBAYOVAR to seek financing through debt/equity



- vii -
swaps and counter-trade arrangements, its efforts to reach an understanding
with the USSR on possible financing do not appear to have resulted yet in
definitive arrangements for implementation of the proposed investment
project.
10.      Lessons learned from this project are (para. 4.06)s  (i) that an
engineering and technical assistance project can serve as an effective
vehicle to maintain the momentum on a major investment decision even in a
deteriorating economic environment, (ii) that in order for the project to
remain effective all interested parties, in particular the Government, have
to support it fully, and (iii) that appropriate institutional arrangements
and resources are required to carry out the promotional work necessary.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
I. INTRODUCTICN
Economic Environment and Sectoral Performance
1.01     Peru is among the seven Latin American and Caribbean countries
experiencing actual declines in per capita income over the last decade.
Weak overall economic growth translated into sluggish employment growth,
coupled with rapid (2.5? per annum) population growth, resulting in sharply
declining per capita income during 1970-83. Although GDP grew by 4.8Z in
1984, it remained nearly 7? below the 1982 level and 2.62 below that for
1980. The declines in GDP have had highly adverae effects on average
household real incomes, which dropped 242 between 1980 and 1983, bringing
them to 192 below even 1971-72 levels.
!            1.02     Real per capita GDP in 1983 was no higher than in 1963; betweer
1970 and 1983, F..r capita GDP fell 102. In 1966, Peruvians had attained a
per capita income equal to 92 of the US level and, by the same measure,
ranked eleventh among the 20 largest Latin American and Caribbean
countries.1 By 1983, Peruvian per capita GNP had fallen to only 72 of the
US level, and Peru's ranking had dropped to number 14, superior only to
Costa Rica, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras, Bolivia and Haiti. In 1982,
Peru stood with Bolivia, Haiti and Nicaragua as one of the four countries
with the lowest life expectancy at birth (under 60 years) among the 26
major Latin American and Caribbean countries.
1.03     The Belaunde Government, which took office in mid-1980 was
confronted with the 1981-83 world recession, bringing with it declines in
metals prices and export volumes. Between 1980 and 1982, Peru's terms of
trade declined by 162. Also the new Government confronted a high and
rising rate of domestic inflation, with the annual rise in the consumer
price index (CPI) climbing from 61Z in 1980 to 73? in 1981. The Government
tried to reduce inflation y slowing the pace of the currency depreciation
during 1981 and 1982. At the same time, it pursued expansive monetary and
fiscal policies, allowing the public sector deficit to rise from 12 of GDP
in 1979 to 8.6? in 1982. The current account deficit in the balance of
payments reached US$1.6 billion during the same year. Peru's exchange
reserves had fallen by over US$500 million, and the Government sought the
assistance of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In mid 1982, the IMP
approved an SDR 850 million compensatory-cum EFF financing to support
Peru's stabilization and structural adjustment efforts.
1/ Based on World Bank Atlases.



-2-
1.04     In 1983, a number of events produced a massive (llZ) drop in real
GDP. The country's still sizeable public sector and current account
deficits, combined with the reduced availability of new external loans from
international commercial banks, forced the Government to implement
deflationary policies by late 1982. The new measures included a large cut
in public investment, accelerated price increases for publicly supplied
goods and services, and faster reduction of food subsidies.
1.05     While real consumption dropped 102, investment fell even more,
with public fixed investment dropping by 202 and private investment by 32Z.
The output decline was dominated by a drop in production in the
manufacturing, services and agricultural sectors, although output in some
smaller sectors, such as fishing and construction, fell even more sharply.
Unemployment rose from 7? in 1982 to over 92 in 1983, and real per capita
GDP fell by 13.3X. Nonetheless, the financing of the balance of payment
deficit required a renegotiation of commercial bank debt (in March 1983)
and official bilateral debt (in July 1983). The rescheduling agreement
with the commercial banks included the phased release of US$450.0 million
in "new money," subject to the Government's receiving continuing IMF
support. However, public sector revenues declined substantially during the
recession and the public sector deficit substantially exceeded the
Government's target under the IMF arrangement.
1.06     In 1984, the economy experienced a modest recovery, with GDP
increasing about 4.8Z. Goods and services exports rose slightly, while
goods imports fell again due to continuing slack domestic demand. While
the current account deficit recorded a further sharp contraction from
US$872.0 million in 1983 to US$252.0 million in 1984, the apparent
improvement was overstated by virtue of a rise of about US$260.0 million in
interest arrears on external debt during the year.
1.07     On July 28, 1985, a newly elected Government, headed by the
President Alan Garcia, inherited an extremely difficult economic and social
situation; Peru's real per capita income was at the level of the early
sixties; two-thirds of the population was either unemployed or
underemployed; real wages were about half their 1973 levels; the
inefficient public sector spent half the GDP; annualized inflation based on
the first seven months of the year was 250Z; external debt was 752 of GDP
with interest arrears of about US$750 million; over half the money supply
was in dollar-denominated deposits. In addition, external prospects looked
bleak with low projected prices for minerals, which account for half of
Peru's exports, declining prices and volumes of Peru's largest export,
petroleum, and little hope of obtaining access to external capital markets
for new money. President Garcia reacted to the difficult economic
situation announcing to limit Peru's external payments to 102 of its export
income.
1.08     The Government announced its stabilization program devoted mostly
to control inflation and stimulate growth. It also emphasized improvements
in the income of the poorest, and agricultural development, especially in
the poor southern Andean mountain region. The Government, in order to
break inflationary trends initiated adjustments in utility tariffs and
petroleum prices, froze prices and wages, lowered effective interest rates
in several stages as a means to control costs, and fixed the exchange rate.



3
The Government initiated some public expenditure cuts, including reduction
in the purchase of military equipment. The initial fiscal measures
resulted in a major improvement in the budgetary position, mostly due to
nonpayment of foreign public interest obligations. However, with
recessionary pressures from the stabilization program setting in, the
Government took expansionary measures to stimulate the economy.
1.09     The reaction of economic activity to ¢.he new Government policies
in 1985 was sluggish.  For a whole year, real growth was a low 1.9Z.  In
1986, GDP grew at 8.5?.  On a sectoral basis, manufacturing and
construction were the most dynamic sectors, growing at 18? and 21.5Z
respectively. During the first semester of 1987, GDP grew only by 0.2Z
compared with the second semester of 1986 due to a slowdown in real
aggregate demand as result of an acceleration of inflation and the
cessation of real wage increases.  On the other hand, the establishment in
late 1986 of a formal budget for foreign exchange allocation caused delays
in approval and delivery of imported inputs which also constrained
production. Inflation accelerated from 57.32 in the period September 1985
to September 1986 to 93.5Z the following year.
Mining Sector
1.10     Peru's mineral wealth has laid the basis for the emergence of a
large, complex, and highly diversified mining sector, which has contributed
substantially to the country's development in the past and offers potential
for the continuation of current levels of production, as well as future
expansion. As one of the world's most important mining countries, Peru
produces over 40 metallic and nonmetallic products, mainly for export. The
nation ranks as the world's largest producer of silver (about 18? of world
production) and is an important producer of copper (62), lead (82), zinc
(11?) and bismuth (20Z). Other products include iron, gold, molybdenum,
tungsten, antimony, cadmium, selenium, indium, tellurium, and tin. The
medium- and small-scale mining sector comprises about 80 medium and 500
small registered mines. The total number of small mines is estimated to be
higher, since many do not appear in the official statistics. While these
mines play a relatively minor role in copper, they contribute substantially
to the country's lead, zinc, silver, gold and tungsten production.
1.11     Mining (including petroleum) has played a significant role in the
economy and has been a particularly important source of foreign exchange
revenues. The sector's share in GDP increased in the late 19708 from
approximately 5-72 to about 10? and has been fluctuating around this mark
since 1978. Its contribution to Peru's export earnings since 1970 has been
variable, ranging between 40? and 521.  It amounted to about 50Z in 1986,
based on an export value of US$1.2 billion.  The sector's share in total
capital formation has ranged around 10X.  Since the mining sector, due to
its operating characteristics, is not labor-intensive compared with other
sectors, its impact on overall direct employment has been small, with about
55,000 people employed, representing around 1.2? of total employment over
the last few years. However, through direct and indirect employment, about
2 million people are considered to depend on the mining sector for their
living.



- 4 -
1.12     During the 1975-1984 period the mining sector grew in real terms
at an average annual rate of 4.7S, compared to 0.7Z for total GDP, and
improved its relative position internationally. This not only demonstrated
the sector's growing significance in a sluggish economy. but also its
dynamism and comparative advantages in the face of weakening international
metal markets. Since 1985, however, the sector has been declining, with a
2.42 decrease in production in 1986, due to weak markets, an unfavorable
exchange rate policy, and most recently, growing shortages of imported
equipment and materials.
1.13     Peru's mining sector consists of three large-scale state
enterprises, one large-scale private company, and 80 medium- and a large
number of small-scale mines. The state-owned mining operations in Peru are
managed by Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru (CENTROMIN), MINEROPERU, and
HIERROPERU. The public mining companies contribute approximately one-third
of the export revenues of the mining sector. Their share in the sector's
contribution to GDP is estimated to range between 3Z and 4S. Southern Peru
Copper Corporation (SPCC) is the only large-scale mining operation under
private ownership. Its principal product is copper which represents about
two-thirds of the country's total copper output. The company is also the
sole source of molybdenite concentrate and produces about 65 tonnes of
silver. It is owned 522 by Asarco, 21Z by the Marmon Group, 16? by Phelps
Dodge and 11Z by Newmont Mining Corporation. SPCC operates two mines which
are currently producing around 250,000 tons of copper.
1.14     Government mining policy has gone through dramatic changes over
the past decade. After a period of officially promoted involvement of
foreign capital for sector development. the prevailing mood became
increasingly nationalistic during the period of the military Government in
the 1970s, resulting in the nationalization of various foreign-owned
companies. CENTROMIN was formed to operate operatons of the ex-Cerro de
Pasco Corp., HIERROPERU to operate the ex-Marcona facilities, and
MINEROPERU to promote the development of unexploited deposits, which had
reverted to the Government from previous concession holders, while
Mineroperu Comercial (MINPECO) was entrusted with marketing Peru's entire
mineral production. In the fiscal area, a mineral export tax was
introduced, set initially at 15? and subsequently increased to 17.5? of
sales. A progressive profit tax with marginal tax rates up to 85Z was
designed to siphon off excess earnings. Moreover, the policy called for
majority Government ownership in at least the large new projects and
majority workers' participation in small and medium mines. These
restrictive measures resulted in a lack of foreign napital, hampering the
expansion of the mining industry.
1.15     In 1981, the Mining Law was modified to allow a more flexible and
pragmatic mining policy. The Law covers all activities including
exploration, exploitation, and beneficiation. Export taxes were phased out
and profit taxes were modified, the minimum rate being set at 32Z on
profits up to $100,000, and the maximum rate at 57Z on profits over $2
million. Foreign enterprises may establish branches in Peru, and they are
subject to the same commercial laws as national mining companies. They can
associate with state mining enterprises under different formulas or form
joint ventures with private enterprises or persons. Overall, the legal and
I



taxation framework became more favorable and succeeded in attracting some
foreign and domestic private investment. However, the stimulus that
resulted from liberalization of the W'ning Law was counteracted to a large
extent by the weakness of world commodity markets and by Peru's growing
economic and foreign debt problems. Private investment in the sector thus
remained at low levels. In addition, public investment in mining has been
insufficient in the 1980s.
Phosphate Industry
1.16     Phosphate rock is the basic raw material source of concentrated
phosphates. The phosphorus content in fertilizer products is normally
expressed in terms of phosphorus pentoxide (P205) equivalent or nutrient
content. Some 871 of phosphate rock mined is used in the manufacture of
phosphate fertilizers, the remainder being consumed in diverse industrial
and chemical applications. Phosphate fertilizer is used mainly in
industrial countries of Europe, U.S.A. and Oceania, which account for 83X
of the consumption.
1.17     Peruvian estimated reserves amount to about 600 million tons of
phosphate rock and potential resources of up to 10 billion tons,
approximately 15? of the world potential resources. The phosphate deposits
of the Sechura desert could eventually make Peru a major supplier of
phosphate. The rock quality of the Bayovar deposit is similar to that of
other major sources, and is thus well suited for the manufacture of
phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers, as well as for direct
applications. Since an economically sized phosphate fertilizer project
would typically nroduce 400,000-500,000 nutrient tpy, and Peru's phosphate
fertilizer consumption is less than 5C,000 nutrient tpy, any production of
phosphate fertilizer in Peru would be heavily dependent on exports.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL OBJECTIVEb
Preparation
2.01     The 600 million ton Sechura Desert phosphate deposits near Bayovar
on the northern Peruvian coast were first discovered in the 19508 but were
not developed because of the relatively low phosphate content of the rock
compared with rock deposits in other parts of the world. Since 1975,
however, the viability of mining these deposits was significantly enhanced
by the growth of the trade in phosphate intermediates, higher international
prices for phosphate rock, and intermediate and final products, as well as
by the gradual decline in the average phosphate content of rock elsewhere
in the world. In April 1977, MINEROPERU and the Instituto Nacional de
Industria (INI) group of Spain, entered into an agreement to examine the
viability of the Bayovar deposits and to exploit them on a joint venture
basis if it proved technically feasible and economically viable. In
December 1978, the INI group completed a feasibility study based on
production of 880,000 tpy of concentrated ore, which was in turn to be used
to produce 210,000 nutrient tpy of phosphoric acid for ultimate conversion
into 350,000 tpy of triple superphosphate (TSV)2/ and 200,000 tpy diamonium
phosphate (DAP).2 This investment proposal showed relatively low rate of
21 High concentrate phosphate fertilizer products.



return of about 1OZ. In March 1979, at the request of the Government, the
Bank reviewed the proposal for the first time and sent several missions to
Peru and Spain to analyze alternative project scenarios. The Bank
concluded that the proposal's low rate of return was primarily due to its
relatively small size. The Bank thus buggested that for the Bayovar
complex to be competitive on the international markets, it should include
at least a two million tpy concentration plant and a 330,000 tpy phosphoric
acid plant, with partial or total conversion into phosphate fertilizers.
This would be equivalent to 400,000 nutrient tpy. The estimated cost of
such a project, including the necessary infrastructure, would be US$700-800
million and the rate of return would increase to about 15Z.
2.02     Based on the Bank's analysis of the impact on project economics of
alternative designs, the Government and the INI group in March 1980 agreed
that further studies were necessary to determine the optimal project size
and product mix prior to starting the Bayovar complex. Against this
background, the Government requested a Bank loan of US$7.5 million to
finance the foreign exchange costs of additional studies necessary to
resolve technical, market and economic issues. The Bayovar Phosphate
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project was created to assure that the
project was properly prepared and executed. The project would also
stimulate development in the Bayovar region, which could become a new focus
of industtial development in northern Peru. The engineering and technical
assistance project was appraised by Bank missions to Peru and Spain in
January and March/April, 1980 respectively. Negotiations were held in
Washington on May 15-16, 1980, the Loan was approved by the Bank's Board on
June 26, 1980, but did not become effective until December 22, 1980. The
slow appointment of senior staff acceptable to the Bank and the
ratification of the corporate actions by PROBAYOVAR shareholders were the
main reasons for delayed project effectiveness.
Empresa Promotora Bayovar S.A. (PROBAYOVAR)
2.03     The project was implemented by PROBAYOVAR.  It was established as
a limited corporation in July, 1980. Its objective was to implement a
comprehensive development program for the exploitation of the Bayovar
phosphate deposits. The issued share capital of PROBAYOVAR was divided
between Empresa Minera del Peru (MINEROPERU), 60Z, Corporacion Financiera
de Desarrollo S.A. (COFIDE), 30Z, and Empresa Nacional de Comercializacion
de Insumos (ENCI), 10Z. In addition to the US$3.0 million paid in by
shareholders for financing of the PROBAYOVAR development program, its
equity was further increased by the Peruvian Government through the
existing shareholders by capitalizing the proceeds of the Bank Loan. The
shareholder group for the project was expected to support PROBAYOVAR
effectively through managerial, technical and marketing assistance which
would assure successful implementation of the project and operation of the
envisaged joint venture. The Board of Directors of PROBAYOVAR consisted of
five members: the Director of ENCI, the Chairman and General Manager of
MINEROPERU, the General Manager of COFIDE, and the Chairman of PROBAYOVAR.
PROBAYOVAR senior officers and advisors were as follows: Chief Executive
Officer, General Manager, Technical Manager, Senior Financial Advisor,
Senior Technical Advisor and Senior Economist.



2.04     PROBAYOVAR was an independent company with full responsibility of
developing the project through to the final investment decision stage, in
accordance with the policies laid down by the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
Since its establishment, PROBAYOVAR evaluated various alternative
development programs for the deposit and commissioned the feasibility study
under the project. PROBAYOVAR was responsible for coordinating Peruvian
and forei-n investment in the Bayovar deposits. PROBAYOVAR's role included
promotion of the investment and making arrangements with equity partners
who would provide technical, marketing and financial support for the
project.
PROBAYOVAR Shareholders
2.05     MINEROPERU was created in April 1971 to act as the state holding
company for the mining industry, with specific responsibility for direct
Government sponsorship of certain projects. It holds the shares of other
state mining companies as well as mining rights for various deposits and,
as a sponsor, promotes projects either independently or, more often, in
cooperation with other state enterprises or private companies. In 1981
MINEROPERU was converted into a corporation governed by Peruvian private
commercial law.
2.06     COFIDE was created in 1971 as a state-owned financial institution.
COFIDE was responsible for the promotion and development of investments by
both public and private enterprises in Peru.  In June 1981 its functions
were redefined with the creation of Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo
(CONADE) Group, consisting of three separate institutions: CONADE,
Inversiones COFIDE S.A. (ICSA) and COFIDE S.A. CONADE establishes policies
and controls all state-owned enterprises, in order to rationalize the
participation of the state in the Peruvian economy. ICSA, acts as holding
company for a variety of state-owned enterprises in different sectors and
is an equity investment participant in new investments. It took over
COFIDE's investment in PROBAYOVAR. COFIDE S.A. act as a financial agent
and raises funds both domestically and internationally for state-owned and
private enterprises.
2.07     ENCI was established in 1972 as a state corporation and remain
under public sector regulation. ENCI has been a leading agency for
purchasing and selling agricultural, industrial and other products,
including fertilizer but excluding mineral products, and now competes in
the Peruvian market with other importers and exporters.
Major Issues Discussed during Loan Preparation and Negotiations
2.08     During preparation and negotiations of the Loan, adequate measures
were discussed and undertaken to address the following issues:
(a) Project Scope and Configuration. A major concern during
preparation was to make sure that the project design would
maximize the benefits of the investments in the Bayovar deposit.
Such a design would determine the optimal combination of
intermediate products (i.e. rock or phosphoric acid) and final
phosphate fertilizers. The viability of the investment would
depend on this optimum scope.  During negotiations it was



concluded that studies on the phosphate reserves were sufficiently
complete so that the drilling work originally included was
unnecessary. As a result, total project cost dropped from an
estimated US$10.0 million to US$9.5 million. Local costs dropped
from US$2.5 million to US$2.0 million. The foreign exchange
component to be financed by the proposed Loan remained unchanged
at US$7.5 million.
(b) PROBAYOVAR Shareholder's Agreement. The Bank originally proposed
that PROBAYOVAR's shareholders be partners to the Project
Agreement, principally to commit them to provide the equity
contributions that would finance local project costs. During
negotiations, however, the Peruvian delegation advised the Bank
that such commitment would be given through a shareholder's
agreement, which the Bank reviewed and found acceptable.
(c) Market for Phosphate Fertilizers. During project preparation, the
Bank requested that a careful review be made of the market
possibilities for Bayovar products not only in South America
(Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador were considering domestic
production of phosphate fertilizers) but also in other areas.
(d) Bank Commitment. During negotiations of the Loan, the Bank stated
that approval for a Bayovar Phosphate Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project did not imply a commitment that the Bank would
consider a loan for a subsequent Bayovar investment project as
defined in the draft Loan Agreement.
(e) Foreign Exchange Financing. During negotiations, the Peruvian
delegation explained that it did not anticipate that foreign
exchange would be required to finance purchase of goods or
equipment to carry out the project. It requested, however, that
if such a need arose, the funds be available under the Loan. The
Bank approved this request with no objection and pointed out that,
on the basis of adequate justification presented, the Loan
Agreement could be modified through exchange of letters to permit
financing of goods and equipment.
(f) Loan Processing Period. The Peruvian delegation pointed out that
legislative and administrative procedures in Peru routinely
required substantial processing time, which could postpone
unnecessarily the date of Loan effectiveness. Therefore, the
possibility of making conditions of effectiveness in Section
6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement more flexible should be considered.
The delegation thus proposed the following conditions of
effectiveness: payment by the shareholders of the first 25Z of
the capital of PROBAYOVAR (US$750,000); approval by the
shareholders of the Contrato Social; and the evidence by the
Registros Publicos de Lima of receipt of the Contrato Social for
inscription. The Bank agreed to these requests.
(g) Retroactive Financing. During negotiations, to allow for a prompt
start-up of the project, the Bank agreed to provide retroactive
financing of up to US$50,000 for consultant services after June 1,
1980.



-9-
Appraisal Objiectives
2.09     The Bayovar Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
was designed to assess the technical, economic and financial
viability of developing the Sechura desert phosphate deposits.
The project consisted of two phases:
First Phase:
(i)   studies to determine the level of phosphate reserves, optimum
mining methods and the most economic source of sulfuric acid for
the production of phosphoric acid;
(ii)   physical, chemical and acidulation tests to establish the most
economic phosphate rock treatment process as a basis for plant
design;
(iii)   studies to determine plant site location, water supply and other
infrastructure requirements;
(iv)   preparation of a market analysis and marketing strategy;
(v)   preliminary studies of uranium recovery from phosphate processing
and exploitation of nearby potash deposits;
(vi)   a feasibility study to evaluate the results of the studies
mentioned in (i) - (v) above in order to determine the optimum
size and composition of the Bayovar complex;
Second Phase:
(vii)   if the project was determined to be viable, preparation of basic
engineering and contract documents, prequalification of
contractors and evaluation of bids for the Bayovar investment
project, and a study of project organization.
First Phase
2.10     Mineral Reserves.  The Sechura desert phosphate deposits had been
well explored. However, PROBAYOVAR had to determine the accuracy of
previous drilling programs and to firm up the level of phosphate reserves.
Also, the optimum mining plan had to be prepared. Sulfur is the second
major input (after phosphate rock) of an integrated phosphoric acid plant
and there was a need to review alternative sources of sulfur or sulfuric
acid for the project. A potential source was the large pyrite deposit
(iron and copper sulfides) at Tambo Grande about 180 km north of Bayovar,
where exploration work was underway. The project included a review of the
results of this work to determine the technical feasibility of using the
pyrites to manufacture sulfuric acid. If the results of this review wer:e
positive, the economic merits of producing sulfuric acid from the Tambo
Grande pyrites rather than from other local or foreign sources of sulfur
were to be studied.



- 10 -
2.11     Rock TestinR.  A rock testing laborntory was to carry out physical
and chemical tests to determine the most economic process for concentrating
crude phosphate rock for phosphoric acid manufacture. This work would
provide the basis for the design of the concentration plant and it would
also provide data for the phosphoric acid tests. Because of the limited
knowledge of the characteristics of the Bayovar phosphate rock, a
comprehensive program of phosphoric acid reactivity tests was necessary to
establish the design criteria for, and the economics of, the manufacture of
phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers.
2.12     Infrastructure.  Depending on the size of the project, fresh water
requirements were up to five million cubic meters annually. Consultants
were to investigate alternative sources of water supply, including
underground water, and the possibility of obtaining water from the nearby
Chira Piura irrigation system which was originally designed taking into
account the potential demand for fresh water at Bayovar. The project also
included a determination of the optimum site location for both the
concentration plant and phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer plants, as
well as for road, port, and servicing and maintenance facility
requirements. In addition, there was a study of the establishment of a new
township at Bayovar to accommodate project workers and employees.
2.13     Market Study.  Altbough &eneral market information was available,
market issues related specifically to the project had to be addressed.
Therefore, a consultant was to reviews (i) the Peruvian fertilizer market,
including possibilities to increase the use of fertilizers in Peru; and
(ii) the world market. The consultant subsequently was to define a
marketing strategy for the export of phosphate rock, phosphoric acid and
phosphate fertilizers.
2.14     Uranium and Potash Studies.  Preliminary indications were that
uranium could be economically recovered from Bayovar phosphoric acid. The
project included a study to confirm this and to determine the technical
requirements for a uranium recovery unit. Given the limited knowledge
available, this study was meant to be exploratory in nature. Proven potash
reserves near Bayovar were reported to be 8.3 million tons of potassium
chloride and such reserves could justify a separate potash project. A
brief study would be carried out in order to determine (i) the more precise
level of existing potash reserves; (ii) the technologies available to
manufacture potash; (iii) the economic merits of such investment; and (iv)
the additional studies and tests to be undertaken.
2.15     Feasibility Study.  The above studies and tests were to be cartied
out in parallel. Based on their results, a technical advisor was to
prepare a feasibility study which would determine the optimum size and
composition of the Bayovar complex and establish its economic and financial
justification.
Second Phase
2.16     The second phase consisted of the basic engineering design to
accurately determine project costs and financing requirements and a study
that would recommend an organizational structure, management and operating
system for execution of the Bayovar investment. It also included



- 11 -
preparation of contract documents, prequalification of bidders, evaluation
of bids and recommendation for award of contracts for this investment;
however, the initiation of these activities required Bank approval. The
second phase of the project was estimated to be completed in about six
months. A condition of disbursement for this phase was agreement between
the Bank, the Government and PROBAYOVAR that the results of the feasibility
study confirm the technical, economic and financial viability of the
planned investment.
Project Cost and Financing
2.17     The total financing required for the Bayovar Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance Project was estimated at US$9.5 million (exclusive
of taxes, from which the project was exempt), of which US$7.5 million
represented foreign costs which were to be financed from Bank loan
proceeds. Physical contingencies of lOX of all costs, except basic
engineering, were added. The proceeds of the Bank loan were to be
channeled through the Government to PROBAYOVAR as capit1 contribution.
The shareholders in PROBAYOVAR would finance local project costs through
their equity contributions. Annex 1 shows the estimated cost distribution
among the different items as well as the estimated local and foreign costs
of the project.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
Achievement of First Phase Proiect Objectives
3.01     During the initial period the project was implemented on schedule
and within the estimated budget. The consultants contracted by PROBAYOVAR
completed the First Phase of the Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project by mid-1982 with the main Feasibility Report. This Report showed
that: (i) a phosphate fertilizer project at Bayovar based on the Sechura
desert phosphate deposits was technically feasible and economically and
financially viable; (ii) the investment should be developed in three phases
to allow for penetration of export markets and reduction of initial capital
investments; and (iii) the investment's initial phase showed a 13.5Z
economic rate of return and was economically justified on its own, in spite
of the large capital investments (about US$700 million) due to
infrastructure requirements. PROBAYOVAR, with support of the Government,
pointed out that the viability of the initial phase was based on overly
optimistic price projections, which assumed fertilizer prices for 1990 at
levels about 502 above historical averages in real terms. The initial
phase would be based on the mining of 1.5 million tpy of phosphate rock and
would produce annually for sales about 500,000 t of rock, 105,000 t of
phosphoric acid, 260,000 t of DAP and 95,000 t of TSP. Sulfur supply would
be switched from imported elemental sulfur to locally produced pyrites two
years after start up, and the initial capacity would be doubled in five
years time. The Bank agreed with the conclusion of the Feasibility Report,
which had fulfilled the condition of disbursement for the second phase of
the project and with which the project's first phase had virtually been
completed. The final costs of the first phase amounted to about US$4.2
million as compared to the original estimate of US$4.0 million (Annex 6).



- 12 -
Implementation of the Second Phase
3.02     Implementation of the Second Phase encountered a delay of about
two years and could not be fully completed due to two major constraintss
(a) difficulties in identifying and attracting a foreign equity partner due
to doubts about the viability of the proposed investment in the face of
weakening phosphate prices and markets; and (b) increasing econLmic
difficulties of Peru during 1984-86 period. The Feasibility Report was
distributed to potential forei&n partners, in order to initiate the second
phase of the project. However, little progress was made in 1983 as
potential partners were waiting for signs of improving market trends to
initiate serious discussions with PROBAYOVAR. In early 1984, PROBAYOVAR
received from three potential partners clear indications of their interest
In participating in the project in a significant way.
3.03     In the meantime, PROBAYOVAR had contracted the services of an
investment banking firm to provide them with financial advice for
conducting discussions with foreign partners and negotiating joint venture
agreements. Moreover, to enhance the interest of potential foreign
partners in the project, and since some infrastructure was to be used by
other future projects in the area, the Government proposed that the
industrial facilities of the Bayovar complex be separated from the
infrastructure for which the Government would assume direct responeibility.
It was intended to create three independent companies: (a) Bayovar Holding
which would be fully owned by the Government and would channel and
guarantee loans; (b) Bayovar Infrastructure and (c) Bayovar Industry which
would be owned to about one-third by Bayovar Holding and the rest by
foreign technical, marketing and financial partners (including IFC).
3.04     As a result of intense promotional activities in 1984 by the
investment banking firm, a key foreign partner among the potential partners
was identified. In June 1984, PROBAYOVAR signed a "Memorandum of
Understanding' with that partner, under which the partner carried out a
detailed review of various aspects of the Bayovar complex. The review and
intensive discussions between PROBAYOVAR and the foreign partner concluded
that in order to utilize available phosphate reserves at a minimum initial
expense, PROBAYOVAR should start with a smaller than originally envisaged
project focusing initially only on mining but providing the base for a
future integrated fertilizer project. PROBAYOVAR and the foreign partner
thus decided in mid- 1985 on a mine-only "phase zero investment", with the
annual capacity of 1.5 mt of phosphate rock, as the initial stage of
development. In order to help bring the project to a successful close, the
Bank, during the promotional period, postponed the Loan closing date three
times from June 30, 1983 to June 30, 1986.
3.05     The scope of che Bayovar phosphate investment was thus modified
and reduced to the production and export of beneficiated phosphate rock,
essentially converting a fertilizer project into a mining project. The
change in project scope reduced the estimated costs for the Bayovar complex
from US$700 million to about US$112 million (direct capital cost without
working capital and interest during construction). About 40? of the cost
was to be financed by equity, of which 60-651 would be provided by foreign
partners. The Bank reviewed and endorsed this proposal. In late 1985, the
foreign partner carried out an extensive market assessment of potential



- 13 -
consumers of Sechura rock in New Zealand, Australia and Mexico. The
marketing study confirmed that a market for 1.5 mt annual product could be
developed over a 3-year period.
Achievement of Second Phase Proiect Objectives
3.06     In July 1985, a newly elected Government assumed office,
inheriting an extremely difficult economic and social situation. Export
prospects looked bleak as the projected prices for minerals were low and
both the prices and volumes of Peru's largest export, petroleum, were
declining. There was also little hope of obtaining access to external
capital markets. The Government economic strategy focused on a
stabilization program. The reaction to the difficult debt situation was to
curtail the external debt service payments to 102 of the export income.
3.07     By the end of 1985, the Bayovar Phosphate Project was affected by
these unfavorable economic circumstances. The project management team was
reorganized and staff significantly reduced. The new president of
PROBAYOVAR's board who at the same time was chairman of PETROPERU devoted
little time to his additional function. Furthermore, a new General Manager
was appointed with considerably less clout, experience and dynamism than
the previous one. Moreover, the new Government's position with regard to
the role of foreign partners and of the Government was not clarified.
Consequently, PROBAYOVAR received conflicting ministerial s-.gnals regarding
the further development of the project. Along with the staff changes,
PROBAYOVAR's budget was reduced and, in December 1985, all outside
consultancy contracts were terminated on the grounds of financial
constraints. These included the one with the financial advisors who had
been involved in the project for three years. Due to the changes which had
taken place, PROBAYOVAR was not able to comply with the program that was
agreed between them and the potential private foreign partner. Given the
political signals, its own inexperience and the lack of resources,
PROBAYOVAR's new management dissociated itself increasingly from the
principal foreign partner and put its hopes in the uncertain interest
expressed by other parties, mainly from Italy and the USSR.
3.08     Nevertheless, in view of the economic importance of the project
and the advanced stage of its development, the Bank continued supporting
the project by encouraging the Government to provide PROBAYOVAR with the
necessary resources to fulfill its role in investment promotion. Success
in this effort appeared temporarily more probable when PROBAYOVAR's General
Manager was replaced by a more experienced and determined person, local
consultants were maintained or rehired, and reinstatement of the contract
with the financial advisors was being considered. By April '986,
PROBAYOVAR prepared a draft 'Heads of Agreement" outlining the corporate
structure, respective responsibilities, time schedule, and marketing
arrangements for the Bayovar investment. The draft agreement proposed was
to set up a 'special mining company," either by creating a new entity or by
amending PROBAYOVAR's charter accordingly. The investment cost had, been
updated by that time, and was estimated at US$183 million of which US$124
million direct capital cost. The document proposed a 65:35 debt-equity
ratio, with a 51X equity share by Peru, 352 by foreign partners, and 142 to
be sold on the open market to interested investors, acceptable to both
partners. The document proposed further that the remaining studies



- 14 -
(including detailed engineering) be prepared on a 50s50 basis by PROBAYOVAR
and the foreign partner. A breakdown of investment costs, as estimated in
mid-1986, is presented in Annex 2.
3.09     After review of the draft Heads of Agreement by the foreign
partner, and preparation of a counter-proposal, a meeting of all interested
parties (PROBAYOVAR, the foreign partner, the Bank, and IFC) was scheduled
as the next step. This meeting was to be held in Washington to discuss the
preparation of a subsequent program for implementation of the Bayovar
investment. In face of the approaching closing date of the Loan (June 30,
1986) Bank staff pointed out that a fourth extension of a Loan could be
considered only on an exceptional basis. A successful agreement between
PROBAYOVAR and the foreign partner could provide for such a basis. The
Bank subsequently made arrangements for the meeting on two occasions - in
July and August 1986. In both cases the Peruvian delegation cancelled its
participation in the meeting at the last minute. After these two aborted
attempts to bring the project to a successful conclusion, the Bank Loan was
closed on June 30, 1986, and the remaining balance of US$2.54 million of
the Loan was cancelled on July 16.
3.10     PROBAYOVAR made it subsequently clear that there were three
principal reasons for not pursuing the association with the foreign partner
and the mobilization of financing from the Bank Group: (i) while for the
original fertilizer project the technical and market experience of a
specialized partner appeared crucial, provision of adequate equity became a
preponderant consideration for the mine-only investment; the prospective
foreign partner, however, offered only a contribution of 25Z of equity or
8? of total project costs; (ii) although PROBAYOVAR had submitted a
detailed draft of a *Heads of Agreement, including the definition of the
legal status of the future joint venture, the foreign partner's counter-
proposal was not perceived responsive and considered insufficient for
negotiations of an association arrangement; and (iii) the probability of
obtaining financing for the mining investment from the Bank Group, even on
an enclave basis became minimal (para. 4.04). For the above reasons
PROBAYOVAR broke off contacts with the foreign partner and, during 1987,
initiated an association arrangement between Peru and the USSR with the
objective of mobilizing financing for the mining investment on a counter-
trade basis.
The Phosphate Market Development
3.11     During the period of project preparation the fertilizer world
market was very promising. Demand was growing fast, production was lagging
and prices favored producers. The expectations for continued strong demand
increases both in developed and in developing countries were high and
triggered much interest in new capacity additions. The 1975 price boom
induced phosphate fertilizer producers to plan substantial increases in
mines and plant facilities. As a result, production capacity rose by 80?
betwaen 1970 and 1985. Since, however, the optimistic expectations for
demand growth did not materialize, and since most investment decisions were
irreversible, a gap between demand and supply opened up and grew to an
estimated 4 mt p-oduction overcapacity by 1986 (about 12? of actual
demand), as shown in Annex 3.



- 15 -
3.12     The impact of the growing oversupply situation was reflected in
phosphate rock and fertilizer prices (see Annex 4) which decreased
considerably in real terms after the boom of 1975 in the wake of the market
imbalance. The resulting unfavorable export prospects required scaling
down of the planned investment in Bayovar and refocusing it to production
of rock phosphate instead of high concentrate fertilizer. This change
introduced different economies of scale and different, more favorable
market prospects. The main change related to the deletion of the
fertilizer production facilities from the project proposal, thus
transforming it to a mine-only project oriented principally to raw material
production in areas where it could have a transport advantage over other
rock phosphate producers.
3.13     Since the design of the Bayovar investment did not call for
fertilizer production any more, only very specific market segments could be
envisaged to absorb the planned supply of 1.5 million tpy from the project.
These markets were in the Far East where two main suppliers (Nauru and
Christmas Island) can be expected to phase out because of depletion of
reserves, implying a reduction of capacity of 2 million tpy by 1990. Most
Latin American markets are well supplied either with phosphates of the
countries' own production or with phosphates from the US or Morocco,
against which Bayovar's production would have no quality, cost and
transport advantages. Under the modified project proposal also the local
market in Peru would be very limited (under 0.1 million tpy) since demand
for directly applicable phosphate rock depends on very specific conditions
and uses. At the time the investment proposal was prepared in discussions
with the prospective foreign partner it was estimated that Bayovar
phosphate would not have a substantial comparative advantage but would be
competitive enough in the Far Eastern markets to make it an attiaetive
proposition. The uses would be both as feed stock for fertilizer plants
after phasing out of the island producers and for direct application on
pastures of New Zealand, were test results with Bayovar fertilizer had been
very positive.
3.14     In the past, the long-term trend was toward processing phosphate
rock in rock producing or sulphur producing countries, because of potential
savings in transport cost and the desire of input producing countries to
increase the value added content of their exports. This was the case in
Tunisia, Morocco, Jordan and some Gulf countries. This trend is expected
to continue in the long-run, but low fertilizer prices in the medium-term
are expected to provide incentives for exports of rock rather than
fertilizer. However, the tendency toward local processing is reflected in
the difference between projected phosphate rock consumption growth rates
over the 1985-2000 period (2.4Z p.a.) and expected growth rates of
international trade in phosphate rock (1.9Z p.a. only). Given these
considerations, a market niche for Bayovar phosphate may remain in the
short term and maintain the possibility for exploitation of the deposits.
While the arrangement with a foreign partner visible in 1986 did not
materialize, investors' interest has not totally disappeared. An
indication for this is that a New Zealand company is currently planning to
start a smaller project (0.4 million tpy) in Bayovar for export to New
Zealand of directly applicab'le phosphate rock through a majority privately
owned venture for which IFC participation is sought. However, as time
passes without specific actions or. the main investment project,



- 16 -
opportunities may disappear, since existing producers become more
efficient, thus intensifying the struggle for market shares and increasing
production from low cost mines.
Project Management
3.15     The First Phase of the Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project was implemented by PROBAYOVAR, with the assistance of several
individual consultants and a number of consulting firms. This phase was
smoothly implemented, but the second phase encountered delays in
identifying foreign partners and defining a course of action. These delays
were due to project team changes, staff cut-backs, severe budgetary
restrictions, and declining market prospects. PROBAYOVAR's resources and
managerial independence were curtailed to such an extent that it was forced
to terminate practically all outside consultancy contracts and was no
longer able to effectively fulfill its role as a project promotion agency
and main link of the foreign partner.
Performance of Consultants
3.16     Most studies under phase one of the project were carried out by
foreign consultants. The consultant who advised the Government and
assisted in the negotiations with the Spanish INI did an excellent job. An
Engineering Consulting Firm carried out the feasibility study and upon
completion was asked to serve as technical advisor to carry out work
towards further development. The technical consultants performed well,
prepared feasible technical opitions, defined the characteristics of the
deposit and prepared the feasibility study on schedule. The consultants'
proposals for infrastructure investments, however, appeared less well
prepared than other parts of the study. In particular, for the proposed
port investments, PROBAYOVAR and the foreign partner worked out a solution
costing only US$15 million instead of US$75 million as proposed by the
consultants. The performance of the laboratories which carried out rock
tests was also satisfactory. The financial consultants hired by PROBAYOVAR
were successful in attracting interest of specialized companies in the
investment. Furthermore, they identified one particular company as the
most serious and adequate partner, maintained links with this company and
PROBAYOVAR and prepared a financing plan. Overall, consultant performance
was satisfactory.
Role of the Bank
3.17     The Bank's relationship with PROBAYOVAR was good throughout the
implementation period. Bank staff worked closely with PROBAYOVAR and
exercised effective supervision of the project. The Bank played an
important role in coordinating and participating in several review/
progress meetings in Washington, London and Lima that took place among
concerned parties. PROBAYOVAR was receptive to Bank advice, especially
regarding the process of selecting private partners and seeking the maximum
possible equity participation by its potential private partners.



- 17 -
Reallocation of Loan Proceeds
3.18     Upon completion of the feasibJlity study under the First Phase of
the project, implementation of the Bayovar Phosphate Fertilizer investment
seemed plausible. Thus, PROBAYOVAR engaged itself in finding
equityltechnical partners to participate with the Government in such a
venture. However, the language of the original Loan Agreement did not
provide for the financing of promotional activities that were essential to
complete preparation of the investment - i.e., finding a foreign partner -
and that included financial advisory services.
3.19     Against this background, in November, 1982 at the request of the
Government, a change in the project description and reallocation of the
Loan proceeds took place to permit financing of (a) 100Z of foreign
expenditure on part A of the Loan corresponding to phase one of the project
--all consultant services provided under part A of the project were
foreign--, and (b) additional activities required for the preparation of
the Bayovar Phosphate Fertilizer investment. Original and revised
allocation of loan proceeds are shown in Annex 5.
Total Project Cost
3.20     The project's total cost reached US$5.7 million, of which Loan
1888-PE helped finance US$4.9 million and the balance US$0.8 million was
financed locally. A total cost distribution and comparison with initial
cost estimates are shown in Annex 6. The final cost estimate is, however,
only a rough approximation based on disbursement records, since detailed
expenditures per component and phase were not available at the time of
preparation of this report. On the subject of project costs, the
Government pointed out that during the last three years of project
implementation only minimal results were achieved while the Government
actually incurred costs through committment fees on the unused portion of
the Loan. In addition, the costs for the Government were also increased by
revaluation of the currency pool against the US dollar.
Disbursement'
3.21     Disbursements were made against 1001 of foreign expenditures for
contracts awarded for rock tests, and reserves and mineral studies.
Disbursements for the technical studies under the first phase of the
project proceeded relatively quickly since this phase was implemented on
schedule. Subsequently, overall disbursements were much slower than had
originally been planned due to the above mentioned difficulties in
identifying a foreign partner, an essential element for completing the
second p. ,se. The Bank processed withdrawal applications until July 16,
1986 to allow for disbursement of the pending applications, which had not
been finalized by the closing date of June 30, 1986. By July 16, 1988,
US$4.97 million, equivalent to 66X of the Loan amount, had been disbursed
and the undisbursed balance of US$2.54 million was cancelled. The
undisbursed funds were intended for the preparation of the Bayovar
investment detailed engineering and as such could only be utilized after a
qualified partner had been identified and an agreement had been reached
with them on the scope and basic design of the project. Although an
initial agreement with a partner was reached in 1984, the legal commitment
on financial participation did not materialize.



- 18 -
IV. CONCLUSIONS
Overall Assessment
4.01     In summary, the project made an important contribution to the
technical and economic analysis of a major investment decision for the
exploitation of the Sechura Desert Phosphate deposits. Considering this
impact, the project is fully justified. Although a final decision has not
been made, the main inveatment now being examined by PROBAYOVAR is
significantly reduced in scope from the original one in line with medium-
and longer term market trends. It is now essentially limited to the
production and export of beneficiated phosphate rock, converting a
fertilizer project into a mining project. Such reduction in project scope
markedly increased the feasibility of the investment since the fertilizer
market had during the project implementation period become very difficult
with structural over-supply and weak prices. The investment project
proposed corresponded to these constraints by focusing on rock phosphate
which could be marketed more easily in Asia and used in direct
applications.
4.02     The project could have been successful and resulted in an
investment decision if Government support had remained strong. However,
PROBAYOVAR staff and funding was seriously cut back in 1985, little
flexibility was shown with regard to requested Government majority in the
mining company (para. 3.07), unclear signals were given as to the future of
the Bayovar investment, and finally the Peruvian delegation cancelled twice
their participation in arranged negotiations on a draft association
agreement. While despite all of the factors mentj.oned the prospective
foreign partner maintained its interest in the project, the failure of
concluding negotiations successfully by July, 1986 resulted in the
definitive closing of the Loan thus eliminating readily available financing
for the Peruvian portion of detailed engineering and procurement
documentation costs, and decreasing the probability of restart of
negotiations and their successful completion to practically zero.
4.03     The project's final results were seriously affected by unforeseen
developments. The feasibility study financed under the project analyzed
investments into fertilizer facilities during a period when the market
prospects dipped rapidly. Had this happened earlier or had the study been
implemented later, this particular part could have been deleted or
shortened which would have resulted in cost savings. Furthermore, the
project lost a good part of its effectiveness when official support
diminished after the change in Government in 1985. After attempts failed
to start negotiations with the selected foreign partner on an association
agreement, and the Loan was closed, it must be concluded that the project
did not have any immediate impact.
4.04     In the longer term, the efforts made under the project may not be
completely waisted. Most of the technical studies are likely to remain
valid for some time and could be updated, along with the financial and
economic evaluation, inexpensively in a short period. In fact, PROBAYOVAR
has pointed out that it has, at little additional cost, brought the
existing studies for the mining investment to feasibility level, achieving
a further reduction in estimated base costs by 101 to US$112 million. If
the markets and Peru's economic situation improve, these studies could thus



- 19 -
be used to revive interest in the investment. In the near future, however,
it seems highly unlikely that the investment project as conceived
(production of 1.5 million tpy beneficiated phosphate rock) can be
implemented because of the difficulty of mobilization of financing. About
the time when the contacts betvwoen PROBAYOVAR and the foreign partner broke
off (para. 3.09), Peru was declared non-eligible for IMF financing, lost
its creditworthiness for commercial loans, and was cut off from new Bank
commitments because of substantial disagreements between the Peruvian
Government and the Bank on the economic policies followed. Had
negotiations with the foreign partner succeeded, financing of this
investment as enclave project would have appeared feasible. Without
prospective private partners, the Government would have to come up with the
total equity, requiring a cash contribution of about US$50 million, and
mobilize loan financing. This, however, cannot be considered a realistic
option, given the Government's budget situation and Peru's restricted
access to financial markets. While the Government authorized PROBAYOVAR to
seek financing through debt/equity swaps and counter-trade arrangements,
its efforts to reach an understanding with the USSR on possible financing
do not appear to have resulted yet in definitive arrangements for
implementation of the proposed investment project (para. 3.10).
4.05     While there is still a market niche for Bayovar phosphate the
chances of success appear to be decreasing as time passes by. The
phosphate market is expected to remain weak through at least the mid-1990s.
Given the existing overcapacity and depressed prices, an investment has to
be of excellent quality and the investment climate highly favorable for the
investment to become interesting again. Although Bayovar is a good and
reasonably inexpensive source of supply, the investment climate is
currently far from favorable.  Meanwhile existing producers are generally
working at very low profit margins and are making very substantial efforts
to squeeze costs, increase efficiency and secure market shares, sometimes
with the result of increasing production. These developments could
decrease the competitiveness of Bayovar phosphate in the medium term and
reduce further the likelihood of exploitation of the deposits.  This
tendency could only be reversed if the investment climate for the Bayovar
investment changed considerably and if for unforeseen reasons the phosphate
market turned around.
Lessons Learned
4.06     Lessons learned from this project are:  (i) that an engineering
and technical assistance project can serve as an effective vehicle to
maintain the momentum on a major investment decision even in a
deteriorating economic environment, (ii) that in order for the project to
remain effective all interested parties and in particular the Government
have to support it fully, and (iii) that appropriate institutional
arrangements and resources are required to carry out the promotional work
necessary.



- 21 -                            ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
APPRAISAL PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ mill--on)--
A. First Phase
Mineral Reserves Study                         0.3       0.3        0.6
Rock Beneficiation and Reactivity Testing      0.1       0.4        0.5
Infrastructure Study                           0.2       0.1        0.3
Market Study                                   0.0       0.2        0.2
Uranium and Potash Studies                     0.1       0.1        0.2
PROBAYOVAR Expenses and
Technical Advisory Services                  0.6       1.2        1.8
B. Second Phase
Basic Engineering and contract
Preparation Activities                       0.3       4.0        4.3
Project Organization Study                     0.0       0.1        0.1
Subtotal                                     1.6       6.4       8.0
Physical Contingencies                         0.2       0.4        0.6
Price Contingencies                            0.2       0.7        0.9
Total                                        2.0       7.5        9.5



-22 -                              ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
ESTIMATED COST OF BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE INVESTMENT
(US$ million of mid-1986)
Mining Mobile Equipment                                            21.0
Stationary Equipment, Ore Storage & Washer                         27.0
Slurry Storage, Flotation & Rinse                                   9.0
Rock Drying & Plant Storage                                         8.0
Water Supply Systems                                               13.0
Pier & Storage Area                                                 9.0
Rock Storage, Reclaim, Conveyer to Pier                            10.0
Oil Storage and Loading                                             1.0
Buildings and Equipment                                             7.0
Mobile Equipment                                                    1.0
Power Generation                                                   10.0
Townsite                                                            8.0
Subtotal                                                        124.0
Interes. During Construction                                       16.5
Import Duties                                                      18.0
Pre-Investment Studies                                              3.5
Pre-Operating Costs                                                 6.0
Working Capital                                                    15.0
Total                                                           183.0



- 23 -                             ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BSAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
WORLD SUPPLYIDEMAND FOR PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER
(in million tonnes P205)
1970       1980      1985        1986
Total World Demand                      19.8        30.8      34.3        33.0
Total World Production Capacity         20.6        33.0      37.1        37.0



- 24 -                             ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECJNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
PHOSPHATE PRICES
(US$ per tonne)
1975    1980    1983    1986      1987
Phosphate Rock (701 BPL FOB Casa)
Current                         67.0    46.7    36.9    32.0       32.1
1985 Constant                       101.8    44.6    36.5    31.7       31.5
DAP (bulk FOB Florida)
Current                        243.0   222.2   183.5   154.0    145.0
1985 Constant                       369.3   212.2   181.7   152.5    142 1



- 25 -                            ANNEX 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
ORIGINAL, REVISED AND ACTUAL ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
CUSS million)
Original              Revised             Actual
Loan          X       Loan          Z         Loan
Category              Allocation  Financed Allocation  Financed  Disbursements
(1) Consultant Services
Part A of the Project     2.0         751        2.8     1001 of        3.52
foreign
expendi-
ture
(2) Consultants Services
Part B of the Project     4.4         951        4.4     951            1.44
(3) Unallocated               1.1          _         0.3                    ----
Total                 7.5          -         7.5      -             4.96



- 26 -                             ANNEX 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
TOTAL ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL COST
(US$ million)
Estimates                    Actual
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
A.  First Phase          1.3     2.7     4.0         0.7     3.5      4.2
B.  Second Phase         0.7     4.8     5.5         0.1     1.4     1.5
Total             2.0      7.5     9.5        0.8      4.9     5.)



-27 -                              ANNEX 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1888-PE)
GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS
RESOURCES:         Mineral occurrences which are largely undefined in
quantity and quality.
ORE:               A naturally occurr'ng mineral, or minerals, in
sufficient quality and quantity to be mined at a
benefit.
GRADE:             The classification of an ore according to the contents
of desired and worthless material in it.
DEPOSIT:           Natural occurrence of a useful mineral, or an ore, in
sufficient extent and degree of concentration to invite
exploitation.
RESERVESs          Quantities of mineral (ore) of a specific quality, which
are calculated to lie within given boundaries (deposit,
ore body).
BENEFICIATIONI
CONCENTRAkeION:    Separation of mined ore into economically valuable
products (concentrates) and rejects (tailings) based on
physical properties such as gravitation and flotation.
SULFURIC ACID:     A solution of sulfur trioxide in water: H2S04.  A
colorless to dark brown, oily liquid with highly
corrosive characteristics.
PHOSPHATE:         An ore of any metal(s) with which phosphorus and oxygen
are chemically united.
PHOSPHORUS:        A nonmetallic element (P) of the nitrogen group which
occurs in minerals as phosphates and in all living
matter.
PHOSPHATE ROCK:    A rock that consists of calcium phosphate largely in the
form of apatite usually together with calcium carbonate
and other minerals, that is useful in fertilizers and is
a source of phosphorus compounds.
PHOSPHORIC ACID:   A clear, colorless, sparkling liquid: H3PO4, produced
from sulfuric acid and phosphate rock.



- 28 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
COMMENTS FROM THE GOVERNMENT
(Translation from Spanish original)
LIMA, FEBRUARY 14, 1989
MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI, CHIEF, POLICY-BASED LENDING, ENERGY, INDUSTRY, URBAN
SECTOR AND PUBLIC UTILITIES DIVISION, OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT, WORLD
BANK.
RE: 'BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN
1888-PE - PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT."
REFERENCE IS MADE TO YOUR LETTER OF 27.12.88 REQUESTING COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT. OUR COMMENTS ARE AS FOLLOWS:
EVEN THOUGH THE OBJECTIVE OF THIS PROJECT WAS ONLY THE PREPARATION OF FEASIBI-
LITY STUDIES, THE CLOSING DATE OF THE LOAN WAS EXTENDED FOR THREE YEARS,
DURING WHICH TIME NO SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS WAS MADE, AND GREATER COSTS WERE
INCURRED BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR COMMITMENT FEES.
THE BALANCE OWED HAS INCREASED TO US$520 THOUSAND DUE TO REVALUATION OF THE
CURRENCIES DISBURSED FROM THE LOAN ACCOUNT.
SINCE THE PROJECT WAS VERY SENSITIVE TO INTERNATIONAL PRICES AFFECTING ES-
TIMATED BENEFITS, WE CONSIDER THAT PROJECTIONS MADE BY THE BANK TO DETERMINE
PROJECT FEASIBILITY AND TO GRANT THE LOAN, SHOULD IN THE FUTURE EMPHASIZE
MARKET ASPECTS, PRICES, INVESTMENTS, AND COSTS WITH NON-OPTIMISTIC CRITERIA IN
ORDER TO ASSURE IMPLEMENTATION.
SINCERELY,
DAVID LESCANO ARREDONDO
PROJECT DIRECTOR
PUBLIC CREDIT GENERAL DIRECTORATE



- 29 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
COMMENTS FROM PROBAYOVAR
Lima, January 30, 1989
PB-047/89
Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Chief
Policy-Based Lending, Energy, Industry
Urban Sector and Public Utilities Division
Operations Evaluation Department
IBRD
1818 H Street, N.V.
Washington; D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ref: Letter of December 27, 1987, Project Completion Report - Loan 1888-PE
Dear Mr. Nowicki:
Reference is made to your letter on the above-mfntioned subject.
In accordance with your request, attached please find the comments of
PROBAYOVAR S.A. with regard to the execution of the Bayovar Project as stated
in your report.
We hope that the opinions expressed will be useful for the pertinent
evaluation of the project results.
Sincerely,
/s8 ARTURO BARBOZA CORONADO
General Manager (i.)
cmv.



- 30 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
COMMENTS ON THE  PROJECT COMPLETICN REPORT - LOAN 1888-PE' PREPARED BY
THE WORLD BANK ON THE BAYOVAR PROJECT.
I.   INTRODUCTION
The Operations Evaluation Division of the World Bank requested comments
from PROBAYOVAR S.A., through letter dated December 27, 1988, on the
evaluation made by the Commerce, Finance, and Industrial Operations
Division, Geographic Department IV, IBRD, on Loan 1888-PE for the Bayovar
Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project.
The following comments deal exclusively with the technical-economic
aspects of PROBAYOVAR's management of the Bayovar project. Comments will
be made in reference to the corresponding numerals in the IBRD report.
II.  COMMENTS
3.01 Attainment of Objectives on First Phase of the Proiect
it indicates that consultants concluded the first phase in mid-1982 with
a principal feasibility report showing 13.5Z profitability to the initial
investment and on which the Bank  expressed agreement.  It is important
to mention that the feasibility and profitability were substantiated on
price projections for fertilizers to 1990, in real terms, with values 502
higher than historic averages. These projections are reported as coming
from the IBRD in the appraisal report and in the Information Memorandum
prepared by Morgan Grenfell. This price overestimation would indicate
that the initial feasibility scheme, including the fertilizer plants,
was not economically viable. In this regard, it should be noted that in
IBRD's report on 'Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities' (814180)
of 1980, historic prices mentioned and the projections to 1990 on
phosphorus rock and other fertilizers, are in line with the historical
evolution and far lower than those assumed in the study. Moreover, the
IBRD report presented by W. Sheldrick to the FAO's Sixth Session in Rome
on Investments and Fertilizers Costs, estimates production prices for new
investments of developed producers to be consistent with the historical
data. The rock market being oligopolistic. the leading producers' price
should be relevant to the Bayovar project.
It is, therefore, necessary to evaluate the mechanisms that determined
price projections to 1990 for the project as too optimistic and inconsis-
tent with the past evolution.
3.02 Execution of the Second Phase
In the project's second phase execution, which was devoted to attracting
partners to participate in the investment, it took two years to identify
a prospective partner. This delay, acknowledged in the evaluation
report from IBRD, was due also to a very different assessment by the



-31 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
companies contacted with experience in the industry as to the  benefits
of the investment proposed in the original study. In particular, al-
though the cost estimates of the productive units was considered in line
with cost estimates in similar places, a great difference of opinion was
found in connection with the prices assumed in the original study, which,
as previously mentioned, were well above those expected by the rest of
the industry, offering no credibility to a commercial operation based on
the proposed project.
Restructuring to determine a commercially profitable alternative did not
start until 1985, and the support provided by Norskhydro in this task is
relevant because of its extensive experience in the field of fertilizers.
Attainment of Obiectives in the Second Phase of the Project
In points 3.06 to 3.09 regarding the performance of PROBAYOVAR during the
second phase, it is necessary to clarify the rationale behind
PROBAYOVAR's recommendation not to renew, towards the end of 1986, the
loan agreement with IBRD on the project and to opt for a scheme dif-
ferent from Norskhydro's participation as a partner.  In this sense,
PROBAYOVAR implemented a realistic evaluation of feasible options to
;            finance the project.  This evaluation was made under the framework of: a)
the project's characteristics; b) Norskhydro's contribution and position
;            in the negotiations; and d) the country's relations with IBRD.
a)   PROBAYOVAR has a specialized study on risk analysis and financing,
commissioned in 1983 for the project's negotiation, where it was
demonstrated that the mining project had a substantially lower risk
than copper or fertilizer projects.  The analysis indicated that
Peru has no comparative disadvantage in bearing the risks of phos-
phate mining and that foreign investors should be attracted as long
as they contribute to minimizing the marketing risk.
Differing from the original project, the mining project offered
different prospects to foreign investors.  The conclusion to be
derived is that the participation of a partner was not a strictly
necessary condition from a commercial point of view, unlike for the
fertilizer project. except for the assistance in rock marketing.
With this perspective, the greatest contributioni under an associa-
tion should be its contribution to financing the project.
b)   Norskhydro made a significant contribution to choosing a feasible
alternative to the project, and PROBAYOVAR continued negotiating
until August 1986, and even prepared a Basic Agreement proposal
according to the need to define this company's decision to invest in



- 32 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
the project. This proposal was worked on intensively by PROBAYOVAR
and its consultants and it presented a thorough association scheme
under the form of a Special Mining Company. In PROBAYOVAR's
opinion, an answer in the context of this framework would indicate
the clear intention of Norskhydro to invest, and would completely
justify requesting the Peruvian Government once again for a fourth
extension of the IBRD loan for the project and to carry out further
meetings.
Norskhydro's counterproposal, presented in late August 1986, did not
contain the same framework as PROBAYOVAR's proposal; it limited
itself to proposing a timetable for completion of the mining pro-
ject's feasibility study and to negotiate the terms of an Agreement
during this period. Moreover, Norskhydro proposed to participate
with only 25Z of the equity capital, which represented no more than
81 of the proJect cost. As a condition, it was proposed that during
this period PROBAYOVAR should not contact any one else about a
participation in phosphates.
PROBAYOVAR considered that after two years of working together,
Norskhydro should be in a position to define the terms on which to
base its participation, without delaying this definition, espe-
cially if it required exclusivity in dealing with the Company.
From the above, it can be inferred that there was no transparency on
Norskhydro's final decision over its association to the project,
and there was the risk of not reaching an agreement and cutting off
any other financing alternative in exchange for a possible invest-
ment of onl- 81 of the total investment resources.
c)   The financing scheme of the project included a significant funding
from IBRD and/or IFC. In mid-1986, the difficulties of repaying
those institutions became apparent. PROBAYOVAR considered that the
participation of those institutions was unforeseeable and the
finaucing scheme worked out for the project was unfeasible. As
witnessed by the facts, since then Peru has not been able to agree
on new loans with the IBRD.
The above-mentioned situation is explicitly recognized in the IBRD
Report in item 4.04 where it states that at that time it was
declared that the country was not eligible for new IMP loans.
In conclusion, the adoption of a financing strategy alternative to the
one originally adopted for the fertilizer project responds to a dif-
ferent situation. If an alternative to the financing scheme had not been
souaght with enough lead time, the project would have been totally
paralyzed. From this perspective, PROBAYOVAR developed a policy that
allowed it to keep the project effective, based on its own belief on the
economic soundness of the investment. This strategy led to a concrete



_33                          ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
result when a basic Agreement for the project was signed with the Soviet
company Tsvetmetpromexport in Hay 1987, and the Addenda signed later in
October of the same year. The Agreement's main characteristic is the
commitment to financing under the counter trade scheme, i.e. loan repay-
ment with the project's output. The loan amount agreed on includes 100?
of the import component and 80 of the local component on account of
repayment of the due debt channeled to the project. However, it should
be noted that the final agreements on financing and marketing of produc-
tion depend on Government institutions that impose limitations to busi-
ness management, as such.
3.15 Consultants' Performance
With regard to the foreign consultants that developed the project, it
should be noted that although they were highly qualified for fertilizer
studies, they did not achieve the same results with respect to infra-
structure works. The design of the port, in particular, selected a
location and estimated a cost of US$75 million for handling 1.1 million
tons of bulk freight and 321,000 tons of liquid freight. In comparison,
the revision made with Norskhydro's support, resulted in a change of
location for the wharf, moving it closer to Petroperu's wharf at a cost
of US$15 million to handle 1.5 million tons of bulk freight.
IV. CONCLUSIONS - General Evaluation
As to the opivions expressed on the above-mentioned report with regard to
PROBAYOVAR's management from 1985 up to the loan's cancellation, the
facts detailed above provide additional and reliable information on the
events related to the project.
As to the long-term achievements of the activities carried out with the
loan proceeds and their use, we should note that PROBAYOVAR actually
revived the previous studies and at a very low cost, as noted in point
4.04 of the IBRD report, continued updating them to bring them to
feasibility level. This study is based on the engineering works for the
original project and on those carried out jointly with Norskhydro. An
additional advantage resulted in the estimation of infrastructure costs
with a high local component from using local companies, and from some
design modifications. The end result was that an investment with a base
cost of US$112 million, 102 lower than the initial cost of the mining
project, was obtained.
Finally, PROBAYOVAR has received authorization from the Government to
implement the investment through the corresponding Supreme Decree opting
for a Public Competitive Bidding which allows the conversion of debt
into equity and counter trade. At the same time, the company has signed
a Basic Agreement to support the project financing and promotion with the



- 34 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
marketing company MINPECO (US$750 million in annual sales), with which
it is expected to expand guarantees and the confidence of prospective
interested parties in the Bayovar Project. The strategy is to provide
maximum flexibility to the financing options considering that the bene-
fits of the project successfully permit application of alternative
,financing schemes and minimization of the serious constraints to attract-
ing foreign loans under the present circumstances.



1,
MAP SECTION
I
i
I
i
i
I
I
i
I
I                                                                                                                                                   I
I
I
I
I



IBRD 15062R
8013                             ,       80                                    79"30I
.~YABA A
TLRA
~~~AO VARPERU
PHOSPHATE PROJECT
PROJECT
f7    Ph/osphate mrining ara
/         *~~ Pyits mining locaticn
~'~-          A   Posible phosphate fertilizer pkw locations
F72Potash mirnN area
CMJJCANAS    EXISTING:
sIucANAs APT  4,I   Oil terminal
OA                                                                                                      CNITAK i , | g f /  -/ OiO pipline
,  .t t; <_ PIURA v_ / Po~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fn-American highway
; ;) \ 2 > $ M~~~ORROPON\ro
-Grv-----  el mads
Sea Ports
t\                                                                                                                  - l.terns'tent streams
Q)                                                                                                                     Int~-~  ~-.   {  /r)LA<\  \   \  F  nermtent lake
X V f_I;gALN \S \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dry sol l.k8.
\ \    , ;  \  Coinobs                5-3a
t    Airports
-5'30' \W-s._  T /   ;fX¢                                            N        P I U  RA                    \                 Province capitals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    Ci|,  ties and tons
(Y- '  -   -Province boundaries
t    ,>'  <    SECHURA.                               '       )        )
LAMBAYEQUE                                               U
QREVSNTAZON2L                          9          
KILOMETERS      t oa    2,O   30     40    5P
~~~~-  -- ~ ~     ~    ~    t                                     1?
M-^   ~   X  I,^JLES                        A 1'0  20   3'0
_S,__                                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______________
___  81                  \g         80 387                                   80                                       M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARCH 1989



