Document of                  FILE COPy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2845-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
difference between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in effect on April 30, 1980 were as follows:
CURRENCY UNIT - Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1979      April 30. 1980
US$1         -        S/. 224.55          SI. 271.9
S/. I        -        US$0.0045           US$ 0.0037
S/. 1,000    -        US$4.45             US$ 3.68
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CENTROMIN   -    Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru
(Central Mining Company of Peru)
COFIDE      -    Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(Development Finance Corporation)
ENCI        -    Empresa Nacional de Comercializacion de Insumos
(National Inputs Marketing Company)
ERP         -    Economic Recovery Program
HIERROPERU  -    Empresa Hierro del Peru
(Iron Company of Peru)
INI         -    Instituto Nacional de Industria
(National Industrial Institute of Spain)
MINEROPERU  -    Empresa Minera del Peru
(Mining Company of Peru)
PROBAYOVAR  -    Empresa Promotora Bayovar
(Bayovar Promotional Company)
SPCC        -    Southern Peru Copper Company
tpy         -    Metric tons ptr year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Peru
Beneficiary:             Empresa Promotora Bayovar (PROBAYOVAR) which would
receive the proposed loan as a capital contribution
from the Borrower.
Amount:                  US$7.5 million
Terms:                   Repayable in 10 years, including 2 years of grace, at
8.25 percent per annum.
Project Description:    The objectives of this project would be to determine
the technical and economic viability of developing the
600 million ton Sechura Desert phosphate deposits in
northern Peru. The project would include the following:
(i)  studies to determine the level of phosphate
reserves, optimum mining methods, and the
most economic source of sulfuric acid for the
production of phosphoric acid;
(ii) physical, chemical and acidulation tests to
establish the most economic phosphate rock
treatment process as a basis for plant design;
(iii)  studies to determine plant site location, water
supply and other infrastructure requirements;
(iv) preparation of a market analysis and marketing
strategy;
(v)  a preliminary study of the feasibility of uranium
recovery from phosphate processing and exploitation
of nearby potash deposits;
(vi) preparation of a feasibility report based on the
above studies; and
(vii)  if the feasibility report confirms the technical
and economic viability of the Bayovar investment
project, preparation of basic engineering and
contract documents, other pre-contracting activi-
ties and a study of project organization.
The scope, costs and financing requirements for the
Bayovar investment project would be determined on the
basis of these studies. Because PROBAYOVAR is a newly
created entity, it will require assistance in initiating
and coordinating project activities. Technical and
management advisory services to provide this support
would be included in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of taxes from
which the project is exempt, is as follows:
Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ millions)------
Mineral Reserves Study                   0.3        0.3        0.6
Rock Beneficiation and
Reactivity Testing                     0.1        0.4       0.5
Infrastructure Study                     0.2        0.1        0.3
Market Study                             0.0        0.2        0.2
Uranium and Potash Studies               0.1        0.1        0.2
PROBAYOVAR Expenses and
Technical Advisory Services            0.6       1.2        1.8
Basic Engineering and Contract
Preparation Activities                 0.3       4.0        4.3
Project Organization Study               0.0        0.1       0.1
Sub-Total                            1.6       6.4        8.0
Physical Contingencies                   0.2        0.4        0.6
Price Contingencies                      0.2        0.7       0.9
Total                               2.0        7.5        9.5
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ millions)------
Bank Loan                                  -         7.5       7.5
PROBAYOVAR                               2.0           -      2.0
2.0        7.5       9.5
Estimated Disbursements:                 Bank FY   1981       1982     1983
---(US$ millions)----
Annual                     1.7       4.5      1.3
Cumulative                 1.7       6.2      7.5
Rate of Return:           Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:         None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
X   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$7.5 million to help finance
the Bayovar Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project. The loan
would have a term of 10 years, including 2 years of grace, with interest at
8.25 percent per annum. The loan would be provided to the Empresa Promotora
Bayovar as a capital contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979. This part is based on the report's findings as well as those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Resource Endowment
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population where modern economic activity is concen-
trated; the mountain region (Sierra), with 44 percent of the country's popula-
tion, which encompasses the highlands above 2,000 meters; and the sparsely
populated, tropical rain forests east of the Andes (Selva). The rugged
topography limits trade between the three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals,
particularly copper, iron, silver and zinc, located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa and phosphates on the northern Costa. Petroleum resources,
particularly in the jungle areas of the North and offshore, are believed to
be substantial but their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another
major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal waters,
although its magnitude is subject to sharp gyrations. Agricultural land is
limited, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already
being farmed.
5.        As a result of three decades (1930-1960) of rapidly falling mortality
rates, population growth accelerated. In the early 1960's, birth rates started
a gradual fall, mainly caused by the urbanization process and by improved
education. But with declining death rates, population has continued to grow
at about 2.8 percent p.a. It is expected that population growth will only



- 2 -
slightly fall to about 2.6 percent p.a. over the next 20 years, unless an
effective demographic policy is adopted. Given the structure of Peru's
population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess of 3 percent per
year during the next 20 years.
6.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying approxi-
mately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although Peru's
energy resource base is relatively diverse with scope for expanding hydro and
coal based power generation, petroleum will provide the major part of Peru's
energy requirements throughout the rest of this century.  After having been
dependent on imported crude oil for many years, domestic oil production
increased almost threefold between 1976 and 1979, enabling Peru to export oil
in substantial quantities for the first time since 1958. Despite this encour-
aging production trend, domestic consumption is likely to rebound after
several years of stagnation so that Peru may once again become a net importer
of petroleum in the mid-1980's unless new oil reserves are discovered.
Past Development Policies
7.        Since the military came to power in 1968, the Government has followed
a development strategy directed at achieving economic growth and at narrowing
the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities among people in different
income classes and geographical regions. The Government has tried to correct
interpersonal and interregional imbalances by expanding the role of the State
in the economy, changing the pattern of asset ownership, reducing foreign
ownership of national resources, orienting industry and agriculture toward
producing essential goods for the domestic market, stimulating the deconcentra-
tion of economic activity out of Lima, and reforming the educational system to
make it more responsive to local economic and social needs. Through national-
ization and creation of new enterprises, the State has taken direct control of
over 150 enterprises in key economic sectors, and its share in total capital
formation has risen from less than one-fourth in 1968-70 to over 40 percent in
1974-1979. By imposing complex legislation, the Government has also strictly
controlled the operations of the private sector.
8.        As a result of these actions, the pattern of asset ownership in
the economy has changed drastically. Through nationalization, the share
of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A sweeping land reform redistri-
buted 43 percent of the country's best farmland to workers' cooperatives
benefitting some 25 percent of all rural families. Through other laws,
industrial workers were given shares in their employers' firms and, in the
mining sector, a share in profits. The Government has also given a strong
autarkic orientation to its agricultural and industrial sector policies
and strengthened the incentives for industries outside of Lima.
9.        The Government's programs have benefitted large numbers of Peruvians,
but hardly reached the poorest which continue to live in abject poverty. It
is estimated, for example, that about three quarters of rural families, mostly
"minifundistas" (those farming less than 2 ha) and the landless seasonal
workers, have not been reached by social programs. The Government imposed
controls on prices of a number of domestically produced goods and heavily
subsidized imported petroleum and foodstuffs. Most of the subsidized products,



however, were more important in the consumption basket of high and middle-
income Peruvians than in that of the poorest groups. Moreover, artificially
low prices for some products--such as mutton and cereals--actually hurt the
poor who produced these items, and affected production negatively.
10.       In the final account, one of the most significant achievements
of the Government was the promotion of the cultural and political integration
of the country. Owing in great part to the land reform, an important segment
of the rural population has become better organized and is able to communicate
its priorities in a more forceful and articulate way. Unfortunately, although
many of the policies and structural changes carried out since 1968 were meant
to achieve rapid growth and more equality, the cost of these measures proved
to be excessive and their implementation inefficient.
The Economic Crisis
11.       For ten years, 1968-77, the military Government followed expan-
sionary fiscal and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures (includ-
ing large defense outlays) was not matched by a parallel increase in revenues.
Pricing, interest rate, and foreign exchange policies encouraged consumption
and discouraged savings, exports and, sometimes, overall production. As a
result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded aggregate supply. Excess
demand, in turn, led to strong inflationary pressures and widening external
gaps, with a loss of international reserves and a massive build-up of external
debt.
12.       The problems were exacerbated by circumstances beyond the control
of the authorities. Anchovies, the fishing industry's principal resource,
virtually disappeared as the annual catch dropped from around ten million
tons in 1968-71 to an average of 2.3 million tons in 1975-78. Furthermore,
Peru's terms of trade worsened sharply between 1974 and 1978. Export prices,
particularly for copper and sugar (which together accounted for almost one-
fourth of merchandise exports), fell from their high 1974 levels at a time
when import prices soared. Petroleum reserves, which in the early 1970's
were predicted to lead to a quick expansion in export earnings, have taken
much longer to come on line.
13.       Public sector savings dropped steadily in relation to GDP from
4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977. Major causes
were the erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives, loopholes
in the tax system, weak enforcement, rises in the budgetary cost of subsidies
for foodstuffs and petroleum products, and sharp increases in defense outlays.
At the same time, public investment expanded rapidly and was increasingly
concentrated on capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and
little immediate contribution to the growth of output or employment.
14.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight. Moreover,
the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and 1975, thus
contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell dramatically
from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they financed only



about one-half of investment. Following a period of rapid expansion in
1968-74, during which GDP grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth
rate dropped progressively and became negative in 1977 and 1978.
15.        The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of payments.
The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77,
equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt. Peru's total private and public external
debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost US$8.3 billion by
year-end 1977, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and four times exports of goods
and non-factor services. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly short
maturities with three fourths of the public sector's long-term debt--which is
estimated to have totaled US$6.4 billion--scheduled to be repaid over the
1978-82 period.
16.        Beginning in 1975, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with the mounting economic crisis. By mid-1978 the economic crisis had
reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation approaching
100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it increasingly diffi-
cult to open letters of credit for new imports and the banking system's net
international reserves had dropped to a negative level of US$800 million.
Financial instability had reached the point where practically all economic
activities were adversely affected. The public sector was fast approaching
the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its external debt.
Peru was no longer creditworthy.
Stabilization Measures
17.        A new economic team was named in May 1978.  Since then, the Govern-
ment has adopted a number of important measures aimed at strengthening public
finances, stimulating exports and stemming the loss of international reserves.
By means of a crawling peg, the sol was devalued from S/. 130 per U.S. dollar
in May 1978 to about SI. 266 at the end of March 1980. Most subsidies were
eliminated, thus closing an important drain on public savings. In addition, a
number of tax measures were adopted and Government expenditures restrained.
Interest rates on bank loans were raised from 16 to 31.5 percent per year.
Peru reached agreement with foreign commercial banks to reschedule US$185
million of principal payments due in the second half of 1978 until January
1979. The Government also negotiated a stand-by arrangement with the IMF for
SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this stand-by was replaced by a new one
for SDR 285 million, in support of the same financial program. Peru's debt
outstanding to the IMF as of December 31, 1979 amounted to SDR 414 million.
18.        The Government's financial stabilization program, supported by the
stand-by, has resulted in a dramatic improvement in public sector finances in
1979. Public sector current account savings rose from - 0.7 percent of
GDP in 1978 to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1979 and the overall deficit was
reduced from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 2.9 percent in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduetion In excessive
civil service employment.  The eliminatfon of subhsdies on food and petroleum



-5-
products, initiated in mid-1978, also contributed to the control of current
expenditures. On the revenue side, several measures--including a 10 percent
import surcharge, a higher tax on traditional exports and an increased tax on
interest charged on bank loans--helped to achieve the revenue target. In
spite of good fiscal performance, however, inflationary pressures remain
strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and over 50 per-
cent (on an annual basis) during the first quarter of 1980.
Debt Restructuring
19.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce substantially the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980, postponing
repayment to the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled
the equivalent of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80.
These amounts are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of
grace. In November, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to
reschedule 90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to
governments and guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263
million). These amounts are to be repaid over a period of eight years, in-
cluding three years of grace. The Paris Club creditors also agreed to re-
schedule 90 percent of the principal payments due in 1979 and 1980 on private
sector debt guaranteed or insured in the creditor countries (about US$30
million in each year). In addition, Peru has negotiated smaller amounts of
debt relief with non-OECD countries. At the end of 1979, in view of the
improved balance-of-payments situation (para. 24), the Government decided to
forego the Paris Club debt rescheduling option for 1980.
20.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru repaid
in 1979 the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 17 above).
The agreement gave the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent
of the maturities due in 1979 and 1980. The Government, however, decided
earlier this year not to take advantage of the 1979 maturities, thus obtaining
slightly better conditions for outstanding debts. It is likely that the
option to refinance 90 percent of the 1980 maturities will be taken.
Social Situation
21.       The economic crisis has been reflected in two consecutive years of
negative growth. Total Gross Domestic Income fell by 0.6 percent in 1977 and
a further 4.1 percent in 1978. In this two-year period GDP per capita dropped
by over 8 percent. Nearly one half of Peru's labor force is believed to be
unemployed or underemployed, i.e., earning less than the minimum wage or
working less than 35 hours a week and wishing to work more. According to
government estimates, the purchasing power of an average salary had fallen
40 percent by 1978 compared to 1970 and that of an average wage by over
16 percent. In these circumstances, the social situation has been unavoidably
tense, and several general strikes took place during the past year.
22.       In July, 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected assembly. Elections were held on May 18, 1980,
and the transfer of authority to the government of President-elect Fernando



- 6 -
Belaunde Terry is scheduled to take place on July 28, 1980. While it is too
early to assess future government policies it is most likely that the Belaunde
Government -- in line with campaign pledges -- will give high priority to social
and employment problems, particularly through housing and labor-intensive small-
scale infrastructure programs.
The Economic Recovery Program
23.       With the financial stabilization program and the debt restructuring,
the Government has brought the fiscal and external gaps under
control. These efforts, however, have not yet helped much in overcoming the
deep economic recession. To this end the Government conceived an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) which would reverse the decline in GDP and lay a basis
for a financially sound economic recovery. The ERP includes, in addition to
the above-mentioned stabilization actions, measures to open up the economy,
stimulate industrial sector efficiency, promote non-traditional exports,
strengthen the tax system by broadening its base, and generally improve the
efficiency of resource allocation in the private and public sectors. In this
connection, the Government formulated a Public Sector Investment Program that
aims at redirecting public investment towards projects of clear economic
priority and positive effect on production and employment. In support of the
ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May, 1979. Progress
in carrying out the ERP, which is closely monitored by the Bank and periodi-
cally discussed with the Authorities, is generally satisfactory with perfor-
mance in some critical areas--e.g., export promotion--actually exceeding
expectations.
24.       The Government's program led to a strong balance-of-payments perfor-
mance in 1979, which is essential for economic recovery, and to restore net
international reserves. This was achieved by maintaining an export-oriented
foreign exchange policy, realistic interest rates, and the promotion of
non-traditional exports; but it is also the result of low, recession prone
imports. In addition, Peru benefitted from substantial price increases for
silver, copper, petroleum, and other commodities. The Government also intends
to improve foreign debt management by, inter alia, making greater use of
assistance from official bilateral and international sources. The short-term
debt, already sharply reduced from US$1.8 billion at year-end 1978 to US$1.1
billion at year-end 1979, is expected to be further reduced as the gradually
improving economic situation permits new trade-related credit lines to be
opened. The trade balance is expected to be strengthened by favorable world
prices for minerals, and by the availability of a petroleum surplus for export
amounting to some US$950 million per year over the next few years. Even
though about one third of the projected gross petroleum exports would leave
the country as profit remittances, this still implies a major improvement
over recent years, when Peru was spending in excess of US$200 million per
year on fuel imports.
25.       Based on assumptions that are cautiously optimistic, the country is
expected to show a strong balance-of-payments performance through the mid-
eighties, with current account surpluses and a build up of foreign exchange
reserves in spite of heavy debt repayment obligations. The balance-of-payments
situation may, however, deteriorate in the second half of the eighties (or
even earlier), when the exportable surplus of oil is expected to decline. This
will eventually result in increasing current account deficits, particularly if
imports exceed the level now expected as a result of the recently started



- 7 -
import liberalization process. Against this background and given Peru's
large overhang of external indebtedness, there is a continuing need for
official development assistance. Considering the expected medium-term
balance-of-payments performance and assuming that the authorities continue to
carry out the ERP and to maintain prudent financial policies, Peru is credit-
worthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
26.       The Bank has approved 38 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$779.3
million, net of cancellations. About 31 percent of the Bank's lending to Peru
has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 23 percent for
agriculture, 15 percent for the US$115 million May 1979 Program Loan, 15
percent for the energy sector, 10 percent for mining and industry and about 6
percent for education and urban development.
27.       Of the US$332.8 million undisbursed as of April 30, 1980, over
50 percent is attributable to five project loans made in the 1976-1977 period.
The slow start-up of these projects--only two of which were "repeater"
operations--as well as the slow progress of previous operations was due, in
large part, to weak project execution capacity and to a shortage of counterpart
funds that worsened as the economic situation deteriorated during this period.
As a result, disbursements have averaged about US$25 million per year over the
past few years (Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
April 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of on-going projects). In an
effort to improve this situation: (i) the Bank has recently opened a resident
mission in Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors have approved modifications in
the Education and the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects (see Annex II for further
details); (iii) adequate counterpart funds have been provided by the Government
for 1979 and 1980; and (iv) the Government has set up a special commission to
monitor loan execution and resolve administrative problems. With these
actions, the pace of disbursement is now increasing; US$32.2 million was
disbursed on project loans in the first nine months of FY 1980.
28.       Program Loan disbursement started slowly because of the unforeseen
increase in foreign exchange availability in Peru as a result of booming
exports and continued depressed import levels, as well as substantial debt
rescheduling. In order to accelerate disbursements, the list of eligible
imports has been expanded to include additional high priority industrial
inputs. In recent months, Program Loan disbursements have increased markedly.
As of May 25, 1980, US$93.3 million had been disbursed.
29.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (i) the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and
foster development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the consolidation of structural and institutional changes,
particularly land and education reforms; (iv) the strengthening, through
engineering loans and normal lending operations, of local capacity to prepare,



-8-
implement and operate projects effectively; and (v) improving living condi-
tions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated
on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More recently,
the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields -,
mining, agriculture and industry -- to aid Peru in surmounting its balance
of payments problems. Lending for social projects has also grown.
30.       The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include a technical assistance loan for the Chimbote steel mill
expansion, a regional airports project, a mining operation, a second indus-
trial credit loan and a highway maintenance project. This program would be
reviewed with the new Government to assure its agreement.
31.       It is estimated that bank loans constituted about 4.4 percent of
Peru's total public external debt outstanding and disbursed, at the end of
1979, and absorbed about 2.7 percent of the country's external debt service in
1979. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid
by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by
1985 could reach about 15 percent and its share of debt-service would be
around 8 percent.
32.       IFC commitments to date have been US$29.7 million (including US$15
million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper Mining
Project) of which US$17.2 million is held by the Corporation. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of April 30, 1980 is presented in Annex II.
33.       The other principal official agencies lending to Peru -- IDB and
USAID -- are expected to continue giving special attention to agriculture with
IDB emphasizing agricultural, industrial and mining credit, roads and small
scale irrigation and USAID stressing rural development. Total loan commitments
as of December 31, 1979 by IDB and USAID were US$646.0 million and US$275.0
million, respectively, and their shares of debt service as of end-1979 were
both estimated at 0.6 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND PHOSPHATE SECTORS
A.   Mining and Manufacturing
34.       The industrial sector in Peru (manufacturing and mining, excluding
petroleum) accounted for 32 percent of GDP in 1978 and employed 14 percent of
the labor force. Manufacturing is the largest component of the industrial
sector, responsible for about 80 and 90 percent, respectively, of its contribu-
tion to GDP and employment. Mining, however, is critical to Peru's economic
development because it generates 40-50 percent of Peru's foreign exchange
earnings and makes a significant fiscal contribution through exports taxes.
35.       Manufacturing.  Until recently, the Government followed a policy
of import substitution and high tariff protection and trade restrictions for
development of the manufacturing sector. As a result, manufacturing absorbed
a substantial amount of foreign exchange, while its exports were insignificant.



- 9 -
In 1976, imported industrial inputs came to about US$750 million, representing
over a third of merchandise imports and 24 percent of industrial value added.
During the 1971-1976 period, manufactured exports averaged only 6 percent of total
total merchandise exports.
36.       This import substitution policy produced an inward oriented indus-
trial sector with little interest and ability to compete in world markets.
At the same time, however, the manufacturing sector in Peru diversified
substantially. The share of traditional consumer goods industries now
accounts for only about 40 percent of total manufacturing output, while
intermediate goods industries have grown in importance. The two largest
such industries, chemicals and basic metals, now represent 17 and 11 percent
of manufacturing output, respectively. The engineering and technical
assistance loan proposed in this report would finance studies to prepare
a possible major new phosphate fertilizer industry for Peru.
37.       There has been growing recognition in recent years of the ineffi-
ciency of the domestic manufacturing industry, its vulnerability to the
country's recurrent foreign exchange difficulties as a result of dependence on
imported inputs and its limited contribution to economic development because
of its high net absorption of foreign exchange. The problems of the industrial
sector became particularly evident during the economic crisis of the past few
years. When Peru's economic activity began to slow down in 1975, industrial
growth dropped from an average growth rate of 7 percent per annum during
1960-75 to to 4.2 percent in 1976. As the economic crisis deepened in 1977
and 1978, physical industrial production decreased by 3.9 and 2.4 percent,
respectively. At the same time, the highly protected local market allowed
oligopolistic industries to raise prices indiscriminately, thus fueling the
high inflation of recent years.
38.       The overall policy framework towards manufacturing began to change
in mid-1976, with the adoption of a more realistic foreign exchange policy.
In addition, a very generous set of export incentives was established in
mid-1976 and strengthened in late 1978. These actions, together with a
substantial reduction in domestic demand, generated an unprecedented growth in
non-traditional (mainly manufactured) exports. They include textiles, processed
fish for human consumption, and fishing boats. From a low of US$133 million
in 1976 (10 percent of merchandise exports), non-traditional exports increased
to almost US$680 million in 1979. They grew to about 20 percent of merchan-
dise exports that year--not as great an increase as in the overall growth of
non-traditional exports because of the increases in oil and metal exports
in 1979.
39.       The other significant policy change designed to improve industrial
efficiency, the trade liberalization element of the ERP (see para. 23),
has proceeded generally according to schedule. In particular, non-tariff
protection to industry through import prohibitions--the main feature of
Peru's industrial policy until 1978--has been dismantled to a large extent
and the process is expected to be completed by mid-1980. A new tariff struc-
ture was approved and has been in operation since last December, most tariff
exemptions and exonerations have been eliminated and the system of export
promotion has been improved. Nevertheless, the trade liberalization program
is far from complete. Considerable efforts will have to be made in the coming
years to achieve the full transformation of Peru's industrial structure.



- 10 -
40.       Mining.  Exploitation of Peru's mineral resources goes back to the
mining of gold, silver and copper by the Incas prior to the Spanish conquest.
The growth of the mining sector was particularly impressive during the
1950's, when the enactment of a simplified mining code with a clear and
favorable tax regime greatly improved the investment climate and foreign
capital flowed into the sector. Copper production increased sixfold during
the decade, the output of lead, zinc and silver more than doubled, and
exploitation of Peru's iron ore potential began.
41.       In contrast, the 1960's were years of relative stagnation in the
sector, characterized by decreasing investor confidence and little investment.
After the 1968 military coup, the Government began to assume a more active
role within the sector. In 1970 the state-owned Mining Company of Peru
(MINEROPERU), was established with the purpose of bringing into operation
a series of high-priority mining and metallurgical projects. The Cerro de
Pasco Corporation, now CENTROMIN, was nationalized in early 1974. The Marcona
Mining Company, a U.S. firm exploiting Peru's iron ore resources, was national-
ized in mid-1975 and became HIERROPERU. The Government also took over
all overseas marketing of metals and centralized this function in a new
state enterprise, Mineroperu Comercial.
42.       In the public sector, all mining operations including sector planning
now come under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, which is
also responsible for the petroleum and power subsectors. The Ministry's
Planning Department establishes investment priorities but leaves primary
responsibility for carrying out investment projects to the state mining
companies.
43.       Four companies--CENTROMIN, HIERROPERU, Southern Peru Copper Corpora-
tion (SPCC) and MINEROPERU--account for a major part of the country's mining
output. CENTROMIN has the most diversified production, including copper,
silver, zinc, lead and other metals at seven mines in Peru's central Sierra.
It accounts for around one-third of the sector's output and employment.
CENTROMIN is now expanding the Cobriza copper mine and building a mine water
treatment plant with the assistance of the US$40 million first Bank mining
loan (Loan 1281-PE of 1976) and two IDB loans. HIERROPERU operates Peru's
major iron ore mining complex. SPCC, the only remaining private company
in large-scale mining, is the country's single largest producer and exporter
of copper. Since its creation, MINEROPERU has completed a large copper
refinery at Ilo and the Cerro Verde copper mine and it is now constructing the
Cajamarquilla zinc refinery outside of Lima.
44.       Peruvian experience in the planning of major mining development
projects is limited since this function had, prior to nationalization, tradi-
tionally been performed in the headquarters of the foreign parent companies.
CENTROMIN, which inherited the organization and staff of the Cerro de Pasco
company, has some capacity to carry out investment projects and this is
being strengthened with Bank support. MINEROPERU, however, still has only
limited project development capability. In the past, some of its projects
have been poorly designed and have lacked strong economic justification.
Because it does not have experienced staff, MINEROPERU has relied on joint
ventures with foreign investors and turnkey contracts for construction of its
projects.



- 11 -
45.       Given Peru's limited agricultural base and its still small manufac-
turing sector, the Government's policy has been to depend heavily on mining
for the foreign exchange earnings needed to maintain economic growth. Because
of stagnant or declining prices over the last decade, however, there has been
relatively little new investment or real growth in the value of mining exports,
except for the 1976-77 period when the Ilo, Cerro Verde, and SPCC's Cuajone
copper projects came on stream. New investment was also stymied by the weak
project preparation capability of state enterprises.
46.       With recently improved prices, Peru's state mining companies have
been pressing ahead with substantial investment programs for the next decade
in order to increase and diversify mining production and they are seeking
Bank and other foreign assistance to help carry out these programs. The
next phase of CENTROMIN's investment program will include expansion of three
polymetallic mines. This is expected to cost about US$350 million and
CENTROMIN has requested a second Bank loan to help finance this project.
MINEROPERU has had responsibility for the development of a variety of projects
including the expansions of its Cerro Verde copper mine and Ilo refinery,
several large new copper mines (e.g., Tintaya) and the US$700-800 million
Bayovar phosphate fertilizer project which is the subject of the proposed
engineering and technical assistance project recommended in this report.
MINEROPERU has sought the support of possible joint venturers for development
of a number of these projects.
B.   The Phosphate Industry
47.       Total world consumption was about 35 million nutrient tons of
phosphate (P205) in 1979. About 87 percent, or more than 30 million nutrient
tons, was used for fertilizers and the remaining 13 percent (technical
phosphate) went for other industrial uses; mainly detergents, animal feed
and insecticides. The paragraphs below discuss the world production, consump-
tion and trade patterns for phosphate rock, intermediates and finished products.
48.       World production of phosphate rock in 1979 was about 130 million
tons of which 51 million tons were exported. The two major exporters, Morocco
(18.0 million tons) and the USA (13.6 million tons) together accounted for
about 62 percent of the world phosphate rock exports. They were followed by
the USSR, Jordan, Togo and other smaller producers, which accounted for the
balance of world phosphate rock exports. The market is oligopolistic, and, as
a result, it is difficult for newcomers to establish themselves quickly as
phosphate rock suppliers.
49.       Phosphoric acid, an intermediate product in the manufacture of
concentrate phosphate fertilizers, is mainly produced by reacting phosphate
rock and sulfuric acid. World phosphoric acid installed capacity was 28
million nutrient tons in 1979 and production was 22 million nutrient tons that
year, or about 79 percent of installed capacity. Of this, 2.1 million tons
were exported, mostly by the USA (0.7 million tons), South Africa (0.4), and
Morocco (0.3) which together accounted for 68 percent of the world phosphoric
acid export market.



- 12 -
50.       Phosphate fertilizer is used mainly in the industrialized countries
of Europe (including the USSR), North America and Oceania, which together
account for 83 percent of consumption. The growth rate for phosphavte
fertilizers demand has averaged 6.2 percent per annum over the last 20 years.
This may level off somewhat to 5.0 percent during the next six years--despite
of rapid demand growth in the USSR, Eastern Europe and the developing
countries, since demand is expected to grow slowly in the USA, Western Europe
and Japan. The world supply and demand balances indicate that there is
sufficient capacity to meet demand into the early 1980's but that the surplus
will gradually diminish and that there will be a supply shortage in the
mid-1980's unless new capacity is added. In the strengthening market that
will ensue, prices--which began increasing rapidly after 1973--are likely to
increase further in real terms. Although there is time to build additional
plants in the early 1980's to avoid any shortfall, the margin is narrow. In
fact, for some phosphate intermediate and final products (notably phosphoric
acid and diammonium phosphate) shortages are already apparent. After 1984,
about 1.5 million tons per year (tpy) of new or expanded P905 capacity will be
required each year to meet demand. Any delay in the commissioning of new
plants scheduled to come on stream up to 1983 will create shortages earlier
than projected.
51.       Changing Phosphate Trade Patterns.  During the past 20 years or so,
the proportionate share of different phosphate products has changed signifi-
cantly. There has been a steady decline in the relative share of simple low
concentrate products (like rock applied directly, basic slag and single super-
phosphate), with a corresponding growth in phosphoric acid based concentrated
products. Phosphoric acid based fertilizers comprised about 58 percent of the
total phosphate fertilizer supply in 1979 as compared to about 11 percent in
1956. In the future, it is likely that most new phosphate production will be
phosphoric acid based, and low concentrate products will show only a relatively
small increase.
52.       Until a few years ago, the phosphate fertilizer needs of developing
countries were met almost entirely by processors in industrialized countries
which, with the major exception of the USA, imported phosphate rock at rela-
tively low prices. Now, however, it is generally more economic to construct
large-scale treatment complexes at the phosphate rock source. There is not
only a transport cost advantage but because the large producers maintain a
high administered price for phosphate rock, processers who are dependent on
imported rock are put at a significant cost disadvantage. This will mean
increased trade in phosphate intermediates in the future at the expense of
phosphate rock. Industry sources forecast that by 1984 phosphate intermediates
will comprise about 33 percent of the total phosphate trade as compared to
8 percent in 1967 and 25 percent in 1979.



- 13 -
53.       After 1984, about 5-6 new phosphoric acid plants, in addition,
to those now being planned, will be required to come on stream every year in
the medium-term to meet forecast demand. Apart from the USA and possibly the
USSR, it is likely that most of these plants will be built in developing
countries with phosphate rock resources. Morocco, with its large deposits,
will undoubtedly play a leading role in helping the world meet its phosphate
requirements, but supplies will also be needed from other sources.
54.       Prospects for the Peruvian Phosphate Industry.  With presently
estimated reserves of about 600 million tons of phosphate rock, and potential
resources of up to 10 billion tons (about 15 percent of the world's potential
resources), the phosphate deposits of the Sechura Desert could eventually make
Peru a major world supplier of phosphate. The Sechura deposits are located
in a wide depression about 30 km from a proposed port site at Bayovar on the
northern Peruvian coast. The deposits are sedimentary in origin and are
concentrated in eight beds containing an average of about 20% P 205. Preliminary
analysis and laboratory tests of the concentrate rock have shown good prospects
for its conversion into phosphoric acid. In view of the relatively low
phosphate content of the rock as mined, and in view of the good potential
markets for phosphoric acid and concentrated phosphate fertilizers, the most
attractive approach to the development of the Sechura Desert deposits would be
to process this rock to phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers in Peru,
primarily for export.
55.       Phosphate consumption in Peru was 20,200 nutrient tons in 1979, and
is expected to rise to about 40,000 nutrient tons by 1985. Peru's present
phosphate fertilizer production capacity is about 12,000 nutrient tpy.
In addition, a pilot plant established at Bayovar produces 20,000 tpy of
phosphate rock concentrate containing about 5,600 nutrient tpy, which is used
in Peru for either direct application or single superphosphate production.
56.       An economically sized phosphate fertilizer project would typically
produce 400,000-500,000 nutrient tpy, well above Peru's own phosphate fertilizer
needs. It would, therefore, have to be export-oriented. A preliminary review
of the supply/demand situation for the ANDEAN group and Chilean phosphate
fertilizer markets shows a total deficit of about 200,000 nutrient tons by
1985. In addition to Latin America, the East and South Asian regions, which
lack local phosphate resources, could become attractive markets for a phosphate
fertilizer complex involving production of phosphate rock, phosphoric acid,
and finished fertilizer products.
Bank Lending for Industry and Mining
57.       Aside from a US$2.5 million loan (Ln. 116-PE of 1955) for develop-
ment of a cement plant, which was successfully completed, the Bank's only
industrial sector project in Peru was the US$35 million DFC I operation now
in execution (Ln. 1358-PE of 1976). After a slow start as a result of the
domestic recession, commitments have picked up recently and the credit line is
over 70 percent committed. Full commitment is expected by December 1980.



- 14 -
58.       The Bank's first mining operation (Ln. 1281-PE of 1976 mentioned
in para 43 above) also started slowly because of a lack of local counterpart
funds. With a supplemental IDB loan and support from the Bank's Program
Loan (Ln. 1693-PE of 1979) the project got underway in 1979. Engineering and
procurement activities are now well-advanced on the Cobriza copper mine com-
ponent, while construction of the other major element of the project, the mine
water treatment plant is underway.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
59.       The Bayovar phosphate deposits were first discovered in the 1950's
as a result of oil exploration in the Sechura Desert. Several international
companies have been interested in exploiting the deposits but the relatively
low quality of the Bayovar concentrates and anticipated high production costs
made doing so unattractive when compared with projects based on the higher
quality rock deposits in the USA or in Morocco. Since 1975, however, the
project's prospects have been significantly enhanced by the growth of the
phosphate intermediates trade, higher international prices for phosphate rock,
intermediates and final products, as well as by the gradual decline in the
average P205 content of rock elsewhere in the world. In April 1977, MINEROPERU
and the mining research and development subsidiary of the Spanish Government
holding company Instituto Nacional de Industria (INI), entered into an agree-
ment to reexamine the viability of the project and to carry it out on a joint
venture basis if it proved economically and technically feasible.
60.       In December 1978, the INI group completed its feasibility study
based on production of 880,000 tpy of concentrated ore annually, which was in
turn to be used to produce 210,000 nutrient tpy of phosphoric acid for ulti-
mate conversion into 350,000 and 200,000 tpy of triple superphosphate and
diammonium phosphate, respectively (high concentrate phosphate fertilizer
products). The project showed a marginal rate of return of about 10 percent.
A Bank review of the proposed project in response to a Government request
indicated that the project's low economic return was primarily due to its
relatively small size. Bank staff suggested that for the Bayovar project to
be competitive on the international markets, it should include at least a two
million tpy concentration plant and a 330,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant,
with partial or total conversion into phosphate fertilizers. This would be
equivalent to 400,000 nutrient tpy. The estimated cost of such a project,
including the necessary infrastructure, would be US$700-800 million; however,
the project would have a rate of return of about 15 percent. Agreement was
reached in March 1980 between the Government and the INI group that the
optimal project size and product mix should be determined prior to starting
the Bayovar project. The Government also requested the proposed Bank loan to
finance the additional studies necessary to resolve technical, market and
economic issues.



- 15 -
61.       The proposed engineering and technical assistance project was
appraised by Bank missions to Peru in January 1980 and Spain in March and
April 1980. Negotiations were held May 15-16, 1980. The Peruvian Delegation
was headed by Mr. Luis Guiulfo, President of the Empresa Promotora Bayovar S.A.
(PROBAYOVAR), which was created to carry out the project. There is no separate
appraisal report for this project. Supplemental data are contained in Annex III.
Prolect Oblectives and Description
62.       The objectives of the engineering and technical assistance project
are to determine the technical, economic and financial viability of developing
the Sechura Desert phosphate deposits.
63.       The project would consist of two phases as follows:
First Phase:
(i) studies to determine the level of phosphate reserves, optimum
mining methods and the most economic source of sulfuric acid for
the production of phosphoric acid;
(ii)  physical, chemical and acidulation tests to establish the most
economic phosphate rock treatment process as a basis for plant
design;
(iii)  studies to determine plant site location, water supply and other
infrastructure requirements;
(iv)  preparation of a market analysis and marketing strategy;
(v) preliminary studies of uranium recovery from phosphate
processing and exploitation of nearby potash deposits;
(vi)  a feasibility study to evaluate the results of the studies
mentioned in (i) - (v) above in order to determine the optimum
size and composition for the Bayovar phosphate project;
Second Phase:
(vii)  if the project is determined to be feasible, preparation of basic
engineering and contract documents, prequalification of contractors
and evaluation of bids for the Bayovar investment project and a
study of project organization.
First Phase
64.       Mineral Reserves.  The Sechura Desert phosphate deposits have been
fairly well explored. However, PROBAYOVAR must determine the accuracy of
previous drilling programs and the precise level of phosphate reserves. Also,
the optimum plan for carrying out mining activities must be prepared.



- 16 -
65.       Sulfur is the second major input (after phosphate rock) of an
integrated phosphoric acid plant and there is a need to review alteVn4tive
sources of sulfur or sulfuric acid for the project. There are large 4eposits
of pyrites (iron and copper sulfides) from which sulfuric acid could be
produced, at Tambo Grande about 180 km north of Bayovar, and exploration
work is underway. The project would include a review of the results of this
work to determine the technical feasibility of using the pyrites to manufacture
sulfuric acid. If the results of this review are positive, the economic
merits of producing sulfuric acid from the Tambo Grande pyrites rather
than from other local or foreign sources of sulfur would be studied.
66.       Rock Tests.  A rock testing laboratory would carry out physical and
chemical tests to determine the most economic process for concentrating crude
ore for phosphoric acid manufacture. This work would provide the basis for
the design of the concentration plant and it would also provide data for the
phosphoric acid tests.
67.       Because of the limited knowledge of the characteristics of the
Bayovar rock, a comprehensive program of phosphoric acid reactivity tests
will be necessary to establish the design criteria for, and the economics
of, the manufacture of phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers.
68.       Infrastructure.  Depending on the size of the project, fresh water
requirements will be up to five million cubic meters annually. Consultants
would investigate alternative sources of water supply, including underground
water and the possibility of obtaining water from the nearby Chira Piura
irrigation system which was originally designed taking into account the
demand for fresh water at Bayovar. The project would also include a determi-
nation of the optimum site location for both the concentration plant and
phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer plants, as well as road, port,
servicing and maintenance facility requirements. In addition, there would
be a study of the establishment of a new township at Bayovar to accommodate
project workers and employees. Finally, the timing for all construction would
be determined.
69.       Market Study.  Although general market information is available,
it should be reviewed in the light of the specific project proposal. A
consultant would, therefore, (i) review the Peruvian fertilizer market
including proposals to increase the use of fertilizers in Peru; and (ii)
review the world market and define a marketing strategy for the export of
phosphate rock, phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers.
70.       Uranium and Potash Studies.  Preliminary indications are that
uranium can be economically recovered from Bayovar phosphoric acid. The
project would include a study to confirm this and determine the technical
requirements for a uranium recovery unit. Given the limited knowledge avail-
able, this study is meant to be exploratory in nature; it is not expected that
any decision on the uranium recovery can be taken before the production of
phosphoric acid has started.



- 17 -
71.       Proven potash reserves near Bayovar amount to 8.3 million tons of
potassium chloride and such reserves could justify a separate potash project.
A brief study would be carried out in order to determine (i) the precise level
of existing potash reserves; (ii) the technologies available to manufacture
potash; and (iii) the economic merits of such investment and what additional
studies and tests should be undertaken.
72.       Feasibility Study.  The above studies and tests would be carried out
in parallel and are expected to take about 12 months to complete. Together,
they would account for about 23 percent of total project costs. Based on
the results of the studies, a technical advisor would prepare a feasibility
study. This would take about six months to complete. It would determine the
optimum size and composition for a Bayovar investment project and establish
its economic justification. This study, other technical advisory services
(see para 75) and the administrative costs of PROBAYOVAR, would account for
22 percent of total project costs.
Second Phase
73.       The second phase of the project would account for about 55 percent
of total project costs and would take about six months to complete. A condition
of disbursement for this phase would be agreement among the Bank, the Government
and PROBAYOVAR that the results of the feasibility study confirm the technical,
economic and financial viability of the Bayovar investment project (Paragraph
4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). The second phase would consist
of the basic engineering design to accurately determine project costs and
financing requirements and a study that would recommend an organizational
structure, management and operating systems for execution of the Bayovar
investment project. It might also include preparation of contract documents,
prequalification of bidders, evaluation of bids and recommendation for awarding
of contracts for the Bayovar investment project; however, the initiation of
these activities would require Bank approval (Section 2.02(e)(iii) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Project Execution
74.       The project would be carried out by PROBAYOVAR, which is owned 60
percent by MINEROPERU, 30 percent by the Government's Development Finance
Corporation (COFIDE) and 10 percent by the state-owned National Inputs Market-
ing Company (ENCI) which markets fertilizer in Peru. The project would be
executed in accordance with the terms of a Project Agreement between PROBAYOVAR
and the Bank, the signing of which would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to complete the legal
process of establishment of PROBAYOVAR, it must be registered as a corporation.
Such registration, as well as the ratification by PROBAYOVAR's shareholders of
corporate actions (e.g., the contracting of consultants) undertaken before
such registration, would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement). PROBAYOVAR has nominated candidates for its
four senior staff positions (general manager, economist, mining engineer and
chemical engineer). The appointment of these senior staff acceptable to the
Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Thereafter, for any change in the four senior staff positions,
PROBAYOVAR would obtain prior Bank approval with respect to the candidate's
qualifications and experience (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
75.       In order to assist PROBAYOVAR in carrying out the project, one
or more qualified consultants would be contracted to provide technical
advisory services. In addition to preparation of the feasibility study
referred to in para. 72, these services would include (i) drafting the terms
of reference and the selection of consultants for the tests and studies
to be undertaken; (ii) supervision of their execution; and (iii) reviewing the
conclusions of such tests and studies. The appointment of the technical
advisor(s) would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Technical advisory services would be contracted prior
to the hiring of any other consultant under the project (Section 2.02(b) of
the draft Project Agreement). The services of only one or two consulting
firms are expected to be required for the execution of the studies and tests.
76.       PROBAYOVAR is expected to form the nucleus of the future company
which would implement and operate the Bayovar investment project. INI is
now considering whether it wishes to participate in PROBAYOVAR but in order
not to delay the project the Government wishes to initiate the engineering and
technical assistance project promptly. If INI decides to participate, it is
expected that it would become a shareholder of PROBAYOVAR and finance a
portion of the local costs of this project equivalent to its equity interest
in the company. Alternatively, it might without making an equity investment,
provide technical guidance to PROBAYOVAR in the preparation of the Bayovar
investment project. In order to ensure that the Bank is in agreement with
significant future changes in the ownership of PROBAYOVAR, Bank approval would
be required for any transfer of more than 15 percent of PROBAYOVAR's capital
stock or the incorporation of new shareholders in PROBAYOVAR (Section 5.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.       After completion of the second phase and before taking a decision to
proceed with the Bayovar investment project, the Government, PROBAYOVAR and
its shareholders would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on the proposed project (Sections 3.03(b) and 2.02(e)(iii) of the draft
Loan and Project Agreements, respectively).
Project Costs and Financing
78.       The total financing required for the engineering and technical assis-
tance project is estimated at US$9.5 million (exclusive of taxes, from which
the project is exempt), of which US$7.5 million represents foreign costs and
would be financed by the proposed loan. The cost estimate is based on early
1980 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent on all costs (except basic
engineering design) have been added. Price contingencies were based on an
estimated annual worldwide inflation rate of 10 percent. The proceeds of the
loan would be provided by the Government to PROBAYOVAR as a capital contribu-
tion (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The shareholders in
PROBAYOVAR would finance local project costs through their equity contribu-
tions. The Government has agreed to ensure that the shareholders' capital
contributions will be made when due (Sections 3.01(d), and 5.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
79.       To help assure prompt initiation of the project, up to US$50,000
in retroactive financing would be provided to help finance costs incurred
after June 1, 1980 for contracting technical advisory services and starting
the studies mentioned in para 63(i) (Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
80.       An estimated 200 man-months of foreign consultants and 120 man-months
of local consultants will be required. The average cost of foreign engineering
and technical and other consultancy services is about US$10,000 per man-month.
The cost of local consultants is about US$2,000 per man-month.
Selection of Consultants and Disbursement
81.       The qualifications, terms of reference and conditions of employment
of all consultants financed under the loan would be acceptable to the Bank
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Disbursements of the
proposed Bank loan would be made against 75 and 95 percent, respectively, of
the total cost of the first and second phases of the project, representing the
foreign exchange component of the services eligible for Bank financing.
Benefits and Risks
82.       On the basis of Bank experience with similar projects in other
phosphate producing countries, there are strong grounds to believe that an
economic phosphate fertilizer project can be developed at Bayovar. Emerging
production and trade patterns in the phosphate industry favor large scale
projects such as the one envisaged in Peru. Ultimately, the Bayovar investment
project could be a major source of supply to help satisfy the steadily growing
world demand for phosphate fertilizers. The proposed engineering and technical
assistance loan would help assure that the estimated US$700-800 million Bayovar
project, one of the most important that Peru is currently planning to undertake
in the next five years, is properly prepared and executed. This responds to the
Government's objective of trying to ensure the high quality of major new
public investment projects.
83.       Development of the phosphate deposits of the Sechura Desert, which
have potential reserves of several billion tons, would make a substantial
contribution to Peru's balance of payments, with anticipated annual gross
export earnings and import savings of about US$200 million in 1980 terms.
Also, the project would represent a major step in stimulating development of
the Bayovar region, which could become a new pole of industrial development
in Northern Peru. Infrastructure in the area would be expanded if the
fertilizer project goes forward. In addition to the phosphate project, there
is the possibility that the studies to be carried out on the prospects for
exploitation of potash, pyrites and uranium might lead to economically viable
projects.
84.       Although the Bayovar investment project would be highly capital
intensive and would create only about 1,500 direct new jobs, a substan-
tial work force would be required during its construction. Also, more job
opportunities would be created as the project stimulates additional investment
in the area.



- 20 -
85.       Because PROBAYOVAR is a newly created entity, it will require assistance
in initiating and coordinating project activities. For this reason, technical
advisory services would be contracted to provide supporting management services
for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between PROBAYOVAR and the Bank and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
87.       The draft Loan and Project Agreements conform to the normal pattern
for loans for engineering projects except, that at government request, no pro-
vision has been made for refinancing the proposed loan. The main features of
the Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be
(i) the execution of the Project Agreement (para 74); (ii) the appointment of
consultants acceptable to the Bank to provide technical advisory services for
the project (para 75); (iii) the registration of PROBAYOVAR as a corporation
and ratification by its shareholders of the actions undertaken on its behalf
before such registration (para 74); and (iv) the appointment of the four
senior staff of PROBAYOVAR (para 74). A special condition of disbursement for
the second phase of the project would be agreement between the Bank, Government
and PROBAYOVAR that the results of the feasibility study confirm the technical,
economic and financial viability of the Bayovar investment project (para 73).
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 9, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                           AiNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  1  of  5
PERU   SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                      REFERENCE GROUPS (AD1USTED AylAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND sQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT EST'NATE) -
TOTAL           1235.2                                                  SAMt         SAME    'IEXT HICHtR
AGRICULTURAL     2J. 0                                MOST RECENT     GEOCRAPHtC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /.
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 250.0       420.0    7'40.0           1124.4     1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSU?"TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALEOT)     445.0       619.0    642.0            943.1       730.7      1646.7
POPATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TopULATION, KID-TEAR (mILLIONS)     10.2        13.5      L6.4
URUAN POPULATION (PERCtNT Of TOTAL) 46.3        57.4      62.8             59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (OILLIONS)                      29.0
STATIONARY POPULATtON (MILLIONS)                        55.0
YFAR STATIONARY POPUrLATION IS REACHED                2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        8.0        11.0      13.0            23.5        44.6        28.2
PER SQ. X0. AGrUCULTURAL LAND     33.0        44.0      54.0             80.5     140.7        100.5
POPUATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        4U.2         45.0      43.9             40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.0        51.9      53.0            54.4       55.3         56.3
65 YIRS. AND ALOVt                  3.8         3.1       3.1              3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PEtRCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.9       2.8             2.4         2.4         1.7
URBAN                              4.7/&       5.0       4.5             3.7         4.5         3.0
CRuDE BIRTH RATE (P'R THOUSAND)     47.0        42.9      39.0             32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER 7HOUSAND)     19.0        14.7      12.0             8.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1/h       Z.9       2.8             2.4         2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF  ARRIED WOMEN)           .               .            17.7        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOO9 PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         110.0       102.0      90.0            99.4       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   97.0        99.0     100.0           107.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        61.5      61.7            60.4       64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       25.0        24.3      25.3            28.3       23.5         31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) %IOR.ALITY RATE    28.0        20.0      16.0             6.7        8.6          5.1
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.0        53.0      55.7            63.6       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY LATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              .       122.0/f      ..            76.1       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
rOTAL                               ..        35.0      47.0            63.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                               ..        58.0      72.0            79.5       75.7         85.1
RURAAL                              ..         8.0      15.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        36.0        ..            58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        52.0         -            77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               *-        16.0        *-            24.5       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          Z200.0/t    1920.0   1580.0           1841.9    2262.4        1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3620.07i   3200.0         .9 933.7    1195.4                   765.0
POPULATION PER AOS?ITAL BED
TOTAL                            490.O0      470.0    500.0            563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                               .        410.0     340.0           279.;      253.1       260.2
RURAL                                X      3450.0   13000.           1140.9    2732.4       io55.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        19.0        ..            25.7        22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9         5.5       4.9/1            5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              4.8          ..       5.1ti           4.8         5.2         4.4
RURAL                              4.9          ..       4.7/1           5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMSER DF VSRSONS PER ROOM
-OTAL                              2.3         2.3       1.9/1            1.3        1.9         1.1
TRBAN                              2.0          ..        .771            1.3        1.6         1.2
RLRAL                              2.7          ..       2-!I             1.3        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO rLICTCRICI7Y IPERCENr
OF DWELLINCS)
'OTAL                             26.0        32.1      32.i/1          54.3       50.J        56.0
URBAN                             50.           ..      54.3-           30.1        .1.7        i5.i
RURAL                              ' .2D        . .      ' . 7TE          . Z       t 7. 14.2.17.0



-   22.-
ANNEX I
TASLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
P-L SOCIALIONDtCAIlORS OATA SZ
MrL'UCE c0ouPs (AOJUST!2 iACEAI
- 5OST &ECLNT ZST IAE) -
SANE        SME A     EXZ 4C0ER
YOSt tECr-       20oClUHC    ZNCONE          LICOtZ
1950 /b     1970 lb ESTVIASZ /b        R2EGON /c   G71OUP /d    OoUP /e
OEDCATION
AD.JUSTED InROLwlw.  .05os
?lfARS:       O0AL                  53.0        107.0      110.0            107.3       102.5        101.7
.1ALE                 95.0        114.0      116.0            109.1       108.6        110.0
FErmLZ                71.0         99.0      107.0            107.4        97.1         92.S
SECONDARt:  TOTAL                   15.0         30.0       49.0             40.5        33.3         51.2
SALE                  16.0         54.0       54.0             40.4        38.4         56.4
FDlALE                11.0         26.0       44.3             39.0        30.7         43.7
VOCAftONAL 2NWL. (: OF SECOtDAzY)  20.0            17.0       23.0             18.5        11.5         18.3
PI?fltZA0  IAITO                             _-
PMIM!                               36.0         40.0       40.0             37.1       35.8         27.1
SZCODART                            12.0         23.0       23.0             17.9        22.9        25.3
ADLT LITERACT lATE (PUCT)             S1.0           *-       72.0             77.4        64.0         36.1
CONSU57 I0N
? SSEO40EL CAMS PM IROUSAND
POPATAON                           3.0         17.0       17.6             29.1       13.5         53.4
RADIO 8LCEIVUS ?a AOUSA
POPULATIO.N                        101.0   .     34.0      101.0            172.1      122.7        225.9
TV 2IECZIVS P?  THOUSAND
P0PULATION                           3.0         29.0       32.0             67.9       38.3        102.6
n!WSPAP11 ("OAa!Y GENIAL
XTfEUst") CRCl ATTON PM
ThOUSAND PO?ULATION                      .        124.0       96.0             76.1        40.0         78.5
C7W1tA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PM CAPITA   ..              ..         ..              4.2         3.7          3.6
LaOR FORCE
TOTAL LA30R FORCZ (THOUSANDS)       3100.0       4300.0    4600.0
!ZltALE (PECENT)                    21.0         20.7      21.9              21.5       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (nxCM)                  52.5         46.8       40.0             30.2        43.5        28.9
2MWSRYf(PUCZNT)                    19.6         20.1      20.0              23.8       21.5         30.6
P?ATIC?A.TION RATE (PERCENT)
LOTAL                                 31.          29.1       29.2             30.9        33.5         33.8
i4611                                 49.2         45.8       45.3             47.3        48.0         51.3
?DtALE                                13.2         12.1       12.8             13.3        16.8         16.3
OCOZ4IC DEP  I'NCY  ATIO                 1.6          1.5        1.6              1.5         1.4          1.3
INCOIZ DISTRISQOtcN
-'IRC2NT OF PRIVATE INCOat
_ECEIVED AY
RIGDST 5 PUCET Or '9U5EOLDS   39.0/k               ..        ..              23.7       20.8
3I1CHST 20 ?'.RC7rNT OF SOusREOLDS  64.47-       61.0/1        .             58.7       52.1         57.6
LO4JEST 20 ?ERCEN2T OF H0USEHOLDS    2.5/k        1.9/1       ..              2.9         3.9         3.4
."07T 40 ?ZRCEN4T OF ROaSEPOLDS    g.o7k          7.07        ..              9.9       12.6         11.0
.OVIRTY !A2CET C2OUPS
T.IATEOD AB50LUTE ?OvERT  INc0
LEVEL (USS P?ER CA2ITA)
U8J1AN                                ..           ..      235.0            263.6      270.0
2URAL                                 *-           *-      180.0            185.1      183.3
!ST':-XTEO RELATOVE POVERTY INCONE
LYVEL (TJSS Pt CAPIT-A)
YN1                                   ..           ..      293.0            396.3      282.5        550.0
RUiRAL                                ..           ..     200.0            308.1       248.9        403.4
ISTIN.ATED POPUtATION 3ELO.W POVERTY
0NCM!E LtVEIL (PERCENT)
U96AN                                 ..           ..       S9.0             35.2       20.3
RUlliLL            ..          ..          .             ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~46.6  35.3   .
.Not Available
aNot  pplicable.
YOTZS
/a     he adjusted group averages for each indicator are populac4on- ighttd geometric means, excluding :h. exetrme
'l.fias of ::1e indicacor and trhe 50c populated oouitry 'n each jroup.  Coverage of :ountries among ;he
'ndl-ators oepends on availabliLty of data ard is aot uniform.
/b    Unless other'i.se  wtaed, data for 1960 refer to any Fear between 1959 and 1?61; for i970, bec,aen ?169
and 1971; and !or Aost lecent lstimst., betwen 1974 and 1977.
_'-cn .m.rfc. & Caribbean;   d   n:rnarmdace 0tddle :000g. (S551-1135 par capia, 1976);  ;e  Upper
widdla ::acfe (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /;  1970-75;  j  1956-61;  /h  1960--S;              9 r6a;     L96;
k ?ersonan L ncome 4%thin Labor !orce; /1 1972.
"ovt Racenc  scsLmaze osf CNP per.captca is for 1978.
Augus.c  979



- 23 -
ANnXE I
rmWnMXi   OF SMA  INIA0                                                                 Page  3 of S
Noten:  Although the data are drama fra source  generally judged the most mothoritativ,en ad  elible, it should ales be acted that they may not be intern.-
tisselly ocaparable b.c-s  of the lack of standardized deriitions end concpts -ed by differeet coutries in collecting the data. lbs data aec, nooatheless,
use f.1 to desc.ribe orders of agpitode, indicate treade, sd chsrsoteriae certae major differeeces betweeIn ontris..
The  djp4tedgf ~ png    or each indicator s-  Ppnpltlo-weighted geometric eamas,ecldn  the note'se nnes. Of the indicat.c sod the met populated
-outry 16lUi          IpT  . to lack of data, grop  Iaweeges of all indicators for Capital Borplon Oil taporters ad of indicators of Motes. to Water and tE-reta
Disposal , Hdosing, Inoom  Distribution sod Poverty for other coutry gwopn,.ar  popslatioo-eilghted geoatric  emOe without  eoloina of the eutro     value  end
th  mt populated country.  9Sim. the covers.. of countries          the  in .dictrs lapels a avaailtv of&dta ad be nt elf c. ction mt be teericed
is relatias  raveree  Of one lrietiot   to mnother.  Thoes.aeasae           mtIs osefo  I as v1,f  o._-I   n
indicator at a tins  oma the coeto -a  refrmapae aruem.
LUMAID  a   (thounad eq.he.)                                                            A.... to tasoreta   ipsl(ecn.foenais   total. obs,a col 
5  - Total nurfc  ares  oprising lad ares ad inand eaters,                            miter of peopl  (ttal orba,a            ofloa)srved by crta dipsA
daiclturs    Ntet recent estigat  of sgricoltorsl are ..acd teaporeri)                   peroeotsges of their respective Dpopulti..n. knoreta dispos.1almy inolod
or Permeanotly for  rope, pawoore, sachet ad blaze garden. or to                      the col11otioo ad dieposal, silt a  without trent-mt, of the   n-ete
l1Ie falow                                                                            and wete-zater by water-borne elects or the use Of pit privie- adoL si
GNP  ER   PTA   S$)-GlNP per capita ostixate  at osrrent sarht price               PoaainprPwlin - Population divided by nuber of prsoticing physirison
a.wmaed byseae coversion  mthod -  World Bash Atlaa (1976-78 hbciel                 jI?l          ~      lial school at university Inte...
196o, 1970, ad 19789 data.                                                            Peaa nor   iorsn  Person - P.Delation divided by  ..e b of practicing ale
aniSlCUPIIC  P88 F  CAPITA - de-al consuption of Ocaeroial eoerg                      a    eaegcot   oes   rciclwe,a                           ltsincec
foa   dLante, petroleum   untorl gac sod hydro-, nooea  ad gec-                  Popuation Par Hoepital =ed    rto.ta, otrbs. ad rura  - Poplation (total, urban,
tb.eral eletricity  in kiloernac of coal eqainleotpr.caPita; 19,60,                     ad  -rura) divided bythi renPotv  noro  hocpitn.l beds noalabirlol
1970, sod 1976 data.                                                                    jobito ad private g.roera  ad speviaicd h.ctpitnl ad vehabilitatioonc-t-r
H.epita1s ar  ectblie .taet  pergahetly etaffed by at leact on  pdoywloino.
POOtItATIhe ADIl VITAL SATISTICI                                                           Establiehaacts providing priecipall  costodial cur   -hc ot iocladed. Rural
Total Popu1atio', tad-YCeiFLillion ..    Ac of July 1; 1970, 1970, nod                  hospitale, bh-oe, inolde health and eadlcnl ceot-r  000 permanetly ataffvd
i977 data.                                                                            by a phoyeiciae (but by a medical naalntsnt, o-e, midoife, etc.) skich of fo
Urb. Pputlation (pret of total) - Patio of achn  to total popontioc;                     ib-patiet acocbdation  ad provide a Iialtd renge of medical ferilitlei.
dIffeen  deitie   of        - orb .aen  -Y sTff-t Oomperability of dnta            Ainispedoialed - T01otal ber of adeoioi.o. to or diw-hsge  from
smog  contis;160, 1979, sod 1975 data.                                                bo tpol  divided by the catert of beds.
Population Proj ertione
R7 Itt45   14np~Yter 011 - torrent  peolntion proj et.ono or  bae  00. dHOUSIG
t5otal pepintion by one sod s   wd their mortality sod fertility              Avr    iov of gHucehold (Poreonc   r,h            Ihebod) -total, urban  seA  rurl -
rntrs. ProJection 'pavmtrrs f rtscility raten  oneprine of threeA h ho.oehold con.sict   f agopo   n iduals who  hor  living qaartve  end
leveIo noaiog Isfe vopotnoyatbirth looreaing with cootryn.                         their uint  meals. A boarder or lodger my or any not h.ic -lcndrd 10 th
pee o-pito inooso 1od, sod femle life wopeotancy atabiliniog at                     hooccohld for  ttiatietla  porpeoec.
77.5 yearn.  The psrmtvro for fertility  atr also have three le-ne                 o!Erege  ubro  pennnerronattlbrbn  o  rrl- Aorgc ounbvr
annunin  deolino io fertility sco-ding to icoelvlsdpn                                fP,ro   pe -ro  in nll arba, adtrurl  o-osied -~ coooi oa   url
salty olseino perforanore. Eaob ouontry is thieo aeslgnod 000 of thece                              D-pvtsel    Ielinge  -oclsdv oa-peraoct otrtoture  wd u_ooopicd pos
nine ootioatlnoos  f mortality nod fertility trends for projection                Aocecs -ttoE hlctriolty (Percentf doellingo) - tot.l. orbn. sod ro-l -  Coo
dIntiooy  ouaoo   Is n _t   oaiocory  op tosstoonlbweie oo cr...it                  totni, urbn  end  -orI d-e1-go trenpeottWiey.
010c  ti  bith rte  o eeos to tie deth rn, ad als  the one
otruoor  rsiwcot             . Tio isahinv-d conly after fertility rates        EDUCAT10H
deoline to te replsoeneo  level of-at ot reprod-ction rate, ohe.         idAete  iroit Oato
v:,h  geraInofomorpl..ce iteIlf _osty.  Th  estationary  npoP-                      Prmr  ool- total cole wd fen-Idroon- total, coearI                       nnrenol
Iti00 sine o-  -tiaatrd 00 the tanJo of the projeted cha-traoorti-i                  seinto  algeat the princry lcv-I aspretv    fvoeto    ra
of tbc popolntion In thr pcor 2000, ad the rate of deciinc of fertility               oohcol-sg  popltloon;InoralIp ccldeo obIildren  Igd   -lprbu
rate to e-yl-oet ecel.                                                                odjooted foe differen.t lengthy of primary ed-otico, foe  ontriro 090h
Y-artatioonr  popopaticn is roarhed - The yea  when etotionn.ey ppolntico               uiversl -1doca tiot --rlleet ow, ..oceed 100 pe-ces    ov   oepyllo
cio- h.w beec reahed.                                                                 are helon  - above oth  sfficinI school ege.
oe co. ha. - Mid-y-u  porolition pe  oqunr  ksioneiv  (100 htectrv) of                  edoctoneubeit eetfu  yerof approord  .r...ry lo,usruo.lo;
totalse                                                                               pir-idee gIeo..ral     ticatlon, or teahe %tniciog iontrot.t-. roe popilo
Per o. in.-sgrioultuaI lard - Cnwlpted no obo- foe sgrbclt-rl land                      ucoally of 12 to 17 ic.nr. of ae  crepeodeoc  -crc               ore --Iecly
only.                                                                                  v-luded.
Popalatico Age Strutur  (cercet) - Children (0-14 yeas), oorbcng-age                    vo...tioos.l -oolen   proa   f eodayM    Vocat'icon  oo'tit.tioos ics`i
(15~Y--hiya)ln  reird  b   yer    d e)e            -protwern of oid-yeor                tcvbhicsl, lodoetrii  oc  th  pogf      m    bo   prt  ldpnet   rn
pplai;170, i97O, and 177 dais                                                   departmeoto of  -orodary inotitotions.
Poolntcn rowb Pte(peecont) - total - Annosl proth e-tos of total aid-             Pscituircbe-pir.nd n-cdar                          T otnl otodnntne-oll-Ji
yea  poelaioo  or195-h,  9h-7,  od1970-77.                                  '"t-   p      Ii r iwe   ceodr "ileeciiddb   sarsotahcc00teor-
Population Grceth Pate  pret          - a A.- .1un  growth rates of odbs                  npeodinglelo
Peisla.ti..s for 1991-h0O, 19*0-70, sod 1970-75.                                      Adult lit-eay rate  Prevent) - lterte edoiito  nble tored  sod crite  as
C-d    irthRat.(p.rth..-d)- Abonul live bietoc pee ihoo-eud of  io-               a peecI- ge of total adolt popolotioc agd 15 Y_er   o   cr
year pePnticri; 1960, 19707 sod 1977 data.
Crude Death Pate (per thoowand) -_Mnaal deaths per thoooad ol  id-yea               COI5lrifIcP
pepeslstion; 1960, 1970, sod 1977 dnO.tPoegrto(e  thossowed oP.ulaioo  - Paooreor   onri   otro
Groso Peprodaotioo Pato - Ao-rge ooeh- of dsoght-r  I cod  didj tear                    ora1ting lenhbaeih  perooc  cld-s weboooI., h-aco 7                     lbtr
in bee osreal reprd-isc-c pe-sd if sic eope-iroce  perseot  gcv-velc
ope_fcfriiyito   sol   ieya  ae -oteding lo 1970.                                   onl Poivr   (prtoopp                itioo)-  -Alil type- of .c.ebvere toe rmAs
1970, wd I75                                                                          broadonto  to geece.hFniptc pe  hs d of pepeitt,o; voIodoonsv
Fseily PIisnio  -A`ceytoro, AnAlooee                  ..bo.oo  o-bee of                  --ce-veeocoutri-o sod in Yeses ob.n eegiottioc ofrsl. st  oel
acceptors of birth-cotrol devi oeuder aunoooIof oninlfeedly                           o.ffet; data for reItp ace   -ect be coops-allo olor o                -soui-iv
pianin  progrwet.ailihed I  con..
ismily Plaing U-Sne            . trocen ofersdseoI-rretg f onrild                     TO Oeoeovcro1 tir hoso  peoltsoo) - fT ercei-c   for oraoni'gces
eom   ofrhil-be ringag  (15-ALyas  oh   oo  tirth--tro1 device-elcpetoa                                 ouain  elde- snollI-vcd TtVveco
to nil eareled womn i a   age g-op.                                                   wed icy-o  oh- registr,tion of TV se.  ..in os        ffect.
_________________                                      eeonrn}ier I ircolation (per ihoocad populotion) - Shots the tisoeroghcoircu-r lgntio-oati.
F 201 AND NItrRPIf0                                                                      of  dail  geneal lotrvt  nccn1.  pnpee   df)evd n0pe-iodoco  pullcati-
Indeoof fod Prductin perCatO  11979-71 100) -tilde o.fnpe  -npits               devted prienily to- ecding genera  coo.   It inoeiderd to bedoily
soolpeodoetiao of al  ftc .voditiec. Pr~odto I         oisde  ace.d wed            of it npr-re at leaot floior limo   -oke.
fee  ad in. on olcdar year bacie.  Cmditie  cover..  prienr  gocdc                  Cis-na Aonun  Atteadwe- per Capita  oc       - ien -hac   so tic nuber of socketo
(e.. ongar-r  isetead of enge) ebio  ar e.ditor sod con. l  ootrivot_'               sold darn-   i   er cing      ngtr-scct   rv-csoeondno,i
(e.g. coffee sod ten ar  -oold.d). dggregate p-d-stioc of e-c  c.oth-                jolts.                                iio
io bh.oed. on tio...  nvrcge prodacer price eighto.
Per -aitn caoly  of caloriec (-eet ofr        -ioetn) - Coepshted ft. roAiBOR FORCE
enere  eqovalet of  et fd  ouylic  avaioblein cootr   pe  opi in  Tots labor          .t forc   Oo ssd)- nvoeoclyativ  pe--on   loolodlg veed
prday. Available osypli-ocero  d-meti, prodootloc, iep-rte lows                   forces sd  Iemlyd bt e-iuding hoo..ob-e,, wtudeoto, etc. Dof-ito--
opertn., ad oheaco. in stab.  Net -uPpliv-  -1c lde sosal ford, oceA,               in vioroo    -wtriee are not -aopnr-ble.
qostitico aecd in fordprco me,sd 1i.-se  in dist1Itribstio. Peqoire-              Fngp14jy-o pt  - Fe.-eIs.      o  force I neI pe-ctsge of Otal1 labor forc
meets wer  esimated by rAO ins-d 00 phyoiclogivIrcredo for normalt) - Laboe force in farming, forrtry, hating ad
utnivity ad heal7th coneiderog voeuetateerue,body o-ghti,                           fiching so percentage of total labor force
age sod n-  ditlbstribsto     ..f pepsoltoonI, sd s1owing 10) percet foe          Indootry lerpet) - Labor force io aling,  -ootrot-o,  osiofsotaring %vA
-ntenat hos..ebold Iecl -elcotric ity,  ater ad gao a  pervntge of totni lsbor Corce
Pe .oPit. oupply of ProteIn lsrce  Per day) - Protesvotteot ofrv                 PtcttonAt  pre t) -total,1malt,sd fal  - PIrticipation or
,.Pi t  net sopply of food pee doy. Net osyPIp of fao  ow door  nod                 activity rteo ar  I  motd nntotl  coe, _d febl  onio  force as Pe--
above. Peqolremets foe all Ic...triec onitbliehed by USDA p-oidr for n              ventgos of total, aele ad  fenlc peposltion ofoi               ro repetivly
eloimo  allo_se  ofI61 grsn  of totsi protebo per day sod 20 gra-  of               1960, 1970, sod 1975 data.  These or  ILD-s  putiipatlo    s    rfetn
soima  sd pWIs  Pr-tei, of w1hich., iers  obould he animal protoin.                 ze--notract.re of the poplation, sd long tIer tred.  A fIn estiat-n
Ths  esdarde ore loser  tha thon  of 75 grea  of total protei a.  d             ar. fc I   atona   crce..
09 gram  of aiml Protebo an no avrage for the world, prope..ed by PA0              ~          R          Ui  -  Ratio of poplatio    drde  15 ad 65 nod ovr to
'Inthe Third World Food lo-cy.                                                       the labor     : feifI*ge grop o)f 15-64 yearn.
roe-sita orotes  noonply from animal ad joulce - rPoteic oupply of food
derived fro  animale sod pisee inganpr  s.                                       Et  D           IONS(T1
Child leesa 1-So) lartalto sate (arithoso)- bonsai deaths per thosawed                Peoetes  f  rvate In-m  (both in  ho ad hiod) - Received by richest
In see group 1-I,per, to ohildre_ in thic one grop; f or most de-c-                   5 per'oset, rlohest 20 poroent, poorest 20 percet, and pooret 40 peroent
oping  -outri-o dnt  de-i-ed fro  life tablee                                         of houeholde.
lieEpcao  tBirth (reara   A-rAeege nube of year  of lIfe                      Estimated Absoute Poverty I1om  Leve  (o  p. or  capta)i - ba  n   ua 
Inadt NorhyPao(e tond    A- bool deaths of infahts under on                             hotr itiomalty adeqate diet Plu  ense...tb1 00-faod reqaireots iw not
yea  ofragepeetosdlv    it                                                             fodbe
latr of ptopl  (ttl   rbs.  n   ua)wt  ewsbeacs t                   oa                Rural relaIvepoety tc         lelisa-h ird tf Vea pr cpt
caeetercpl  (incldes treated  orface waters or untreated but                        Person1 albgi   Of the vdowtry. Orbs.-lve  is derioed fr- the rura  leve
onotemleated eater  -ho as that from protected brehles, springs,                     with adjoMetat for highet     oto  lvn   oaraass
ad  sasitary wells) as Perset.os of the ir reepective pnpsLati_oss.                 Sstiatcd PalatW n esle 1WAbalut  Poverty Icm   ee Irroen.t) - orbs ad
a ach  gara a poblic fountain or etadpost located net mr  then                       Purl   rNwet ofpplain(aaa   rurl)wh   are   abolt  'oor
200mters from a house my be oooidered as beIng within rseaewssab
mos   f than hooe..  In rual _rwa  r_aasle ace_s  would iolp
that the housewife   a Sees of th0 houhold du not hson to spend aOoii   dOca   aaPvs
dIsproportionate part of the day in fetching the fatty a  ae-ed                                                          osmoAayi d   Proetoa Departmen
Anauet 1979






--24-                                                                                                        MNEX I
Page 4 of 5
OEBD
7CONOMIC DEVELOPYENT DATA
A C T U A L                                                      P_1RCLM           P R O J    C T E D                                GRO1PT  RATE (% p.e.)              1977
1965            1970            5975           1976           1977            1978           1979           1980             1985                        1965-76   1976-78   1978-85              'GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(mirlions of US doladrs at 1977 prices)
.ross Domestic Product                            7633.7          9451.1         12329.3        12706.4         12553.9       12328.2         12759.4        13405.3          17870.1                        4.7      -1.5        5.4                 100.0
Gaine from Terms of Trade                          -81.1           274.3           -59.2          -80.9            O.C         -285.7           114.5          168.5            535.5                                                                   0
Gross Domestic Incom-                             7552.6          9723.4         12270.1        12625.5         12553.9       12042.3         12873.9        13573.9          18405.5                        4.8      -2.3        6.2                 100.0
Imports                                           2207.8          2247.2          3343.6         2875.3         2694.1         1795.6          2009.9         2298.9           3426.0                        z.4     -21.0        8.7                  21.5
Eaports                                           2081.1          2562.2          1911.5         1989.7         2137.8         2368.0          3006.0         3077.9           3646.3                       -0.4       9.1        6.4                  17.0
oports, Terms of Tr-do Adjusted                   2000.0          2836.5          1852.3         1908.8         2137.6         2082.3          3120.5         3246.4           4181.8                       -0.4       4.5       10.5                  17.0
R.murce. Gp, Tor-e of Trade Adjusted (-:surplus) 207.8            -589.3          1491.3          966.5           556.         -286.7         -1110.6        -947.5            -755.7                                                                   4.4
Total Consumption                                 6304.8          7784.7         10942.6        11154.8         11219.2       10106.4          9921.1        10536.3          14695.5                        5.3      "4.8        5.5                  89.4
I-vest.ent                                        1455.6          1351.4          2818.8         2437.2          1891.3        1649.2          1842.2         2090.1           2954.3                        4.8     -17.7        8.7                  15.1
Notiomel Svings                                   1093.1          1786.2          1116.0         1132.4           965.1        1485.7          2341.1         2436.9           3334.2                        0.3      14.5       12.2                   7.7
Domestic Saving                                   1247.8          1940.7          1327.5         1470.7         1334.7         1935.9          2952.7         3037.6           3710.1                        1.5      i4.7        9.7                  10.6
PRICED IN US DOLLARS
(1977 = 100)
Export Price Irdes                                  37.1            47.3            87.6           87.7           100.1         100.0           134.5          150.4            234.1                        8.i        7.2      12.8
IDport Prior Codea                                  38.6            42.7            90.4           91.4          1OO.C          114.6           129.6          142.6            204.1                        8.2      12.0        8.6
T.rms of Tramd  Indec                               96.1           110.7            96.9           95.9           10O.C          87.9           103.8         lOS.5             114.7                        0.0      -4.3        3.9
Arnnal A-eroge Exc-ange Date (Soles per N)          26.8            38.7            40.8           57.4           83.81         156.3           224.6           --                --
OUTPUT, LASOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN                                       GNP by Doctor                                                              Labor Force                                                         GNP per Capita
1970 PRICES                                     In Nil, of 0S Doloaro             Percent of Total             Growth Nate        In TiouTnh d               P-roent of Total               Grooth Rete             in uS Moli,rs           atA-er              6F<cth M-te
[966             1976      1i9p6                          1    1961-76           1961        1976           1961             1976      *       1961-76       1961                             71961-76  19 e976  1961-
Agricu7tore                                       888.9          1138.9             221.1          13.7             1            1708.6      2109.4           52.8            43.4               1.4         521.8            539.9       41.8     31.5           0.2
1.duatry                                         1465.3          3167.7             36.4           38.o             5.,           616.4      1019.1           19.1            21.0              3.4         2377.2          3108.3       190.8    18.1.2          1.8
Serice-                                          1666.           4030.9              1.4           48.3             6.C           907.0      17316            28.1            2:-               4.4         1837.2          2327.8       1475    135.7            t.6
TotalVAverage                 4020.5                        8      337.5           100.0          100.0             5.0          3227.0      4060.1          100.            100.0               2.7        1245.9           1715.5      i         100.0          2.2
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANC7j                                                                                                                  Prelim.                        Pro-Jeted
(an percent of Current GDP)                      1965            1970               1975           1976             1977         1978         1979           1980             1961             1962
Current Revecue                                   15.2             16.1             15.9           14.5             14.6         15.3          17.7           19.3            19.6              19.9
Current Ropendit-re                               14.3             13.4             16.3           16.0             18.3         17.3          14.9          17.3             18.8             19.3
C-rreat 6s-ioge                                    0.9              2.8             -0.5           -1.5             -3.7         -1.5           2.9            2.0             0.8              0.6
Clpital E.pmnditore                                4.5              4.1              5.0            4.8              3.8          3.4           4.3           4.9              4.9              4.9
Ecternel Aenist-mo  (Net)                          1.2              0.6              3.0            2.0              3.3          0.9          -0.2           n.e.             a.a.              a.
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DE6AILS                                     Actuc                                                          D1TACL ON                                     1977/S2lam Plonm       P-an
(as percent of total Current Kopend.)           19               1973              1976            1977                        PUBLIC SECTOR                                                  TtiT
1..oft t1978  INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Educstion                                         30.6             27.9             22.9           18.1             16.1
Health                                             9.0              6.3              6.2            4.7             6.0         AgrVcilt-re                                  1262.2             19.6
Agricoltrm                                         3. 6             4.4               .             13 2            3.64        Industry, Touroim sad RIini8                 1375.1            21.3
other Ec..n.eic Services                           3.2              4.0              5.2            5.2             2.7         Enegy                                        1794.4             27.6
Generel Servicee (ircl. defen.e)                  46.4             42.7             46.9           54.i            45. t        Tran-part sad Cosmaoicstivc                   892.4             13.8
IDtereot nn Dobt                                   5.4             11.3             10.8           15.1            24.          Socinl cod local Interest Projeota           1128.3             17.5
Other                                              1.8              3.3              6.2            5.5             2.5
TotaL Curreat ERpenditure-                       100.0            100.0            100.0          10.0            10676.        Totd                                         6452.4            10.0
MINEY AND CREDIT                                 1973             1974             1975            1976             1977         1978          1979 (pr-lin.)
(Millione of Dolen outatsaiug
At the end of period)
Noney end  .i-Yoney                             98268             119996         141766            166296        220453        321200        637200
Book Credit to Public Sector                    27234              26898          49711            101399        198854        287700        223600
Demk Crtit to Private Sc-tor                    73189             84512          108234            134536        17377Z        239300        387500
Mloney so perce- t of GDP                         27.4              26.8            25.5           21.6            21.0          19.2          20.9
Cossmler Price Index in Seine (1977-100)        37-5              43.9            54.3            7             100.0         157.8         264.7
Aicoal perceotego ohenga iA:                                                                                       38 0
Comaor  Price Iade- i1 SBlsa                     9.5              16.9            23.7            33.5             .           7.            67.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    53.7             -1.2             8468          104.0            96.1         44.7          -22.3
Beck Credit to Private SDctor                   27.7              15.5            28.1           24.3            29.2         37.7           61.9






Ia-cia-Ic                a-a-  -aCc-a-aCa        C-C.aaa-aa-a-,aC-       cCa  'CC-a Ca-OCCC.aILa  a-a  '-Cc Ca-a-a-ac-ta-         -a-CtCa                  a-a-
- ujja-  -   ;-"a    a cc'aaa?P  tPa;Pa,sIa-                                                               cat
a--a                                a-              ca-OI           -  a          -       a,   -"a-Cc
- a                            a-a  -a-                                 a   aacc-               c   a-Cgacaacccccc'-'a-
a,-, 2iCa    ca,Cc                       -     a',- a-a  aeja   a   a-cs,-  Ia-                            Caa'c""a,Ca  tact
acs-aCa                      a-           a-                baa-            a                                ga-,-.j,               a-aa-cca
ca,asa-c,-c'a,a,aaa    -   a-"   a O-.,a-    CaC-aca ,t                                           oflaaaC-aaaaaac  a-
C'         S                   Cat         a-""    a-         C'   -can!             'a    cca-C'ca-.r.'crc   ''ccc
a-  a,   a,.  -a                  caca              5-    ca-c   a,, ata,              -,   ',
C-c       -,     a-C's'                  c<          St        5              c    cSa-         Pa    c-ca"         ga-
caD                          a-                                           ac      a         c              . a  a  a                                                       a-a-a,   
a                                        cc        a                a-a  'a    a5a                a-  at-
a.                             5Q               S                           C         a      a          '            a-c                           a-
ac,                                             I                           a         a      a         a       a    a
"a                                             -a
a                                           I                           "         a                 0                            cc                      aa5a-
'a-,                               a                                                  a                        S    S                a-a,
ja                        a         a                a             a-              a a
a                ca-a                          a-a
aCe                               C'                a                       a                          a       a
I                                                                                                                                  a
C. -                                                                                                                                it
5                                          i Paa-2'$tPaaa-a- [t  55   SSa-a-tTPattt          55      5   55                              PaSt       Pata-fl-Pa   5%    5
-C  a-a----     Ia-  a-a-a-        ta-a-a-       a-a  0-2-a-a-'' a-           a-a-a-a- CC'-  a'a-Oa--4a---20a.    a-a-'a
a-a-a-           a-a-  -    a-  'ar.a        a-a--  0-a-a-a         I a-   a-    a        'a%aa'      La-a            4-a-
I 5a5555 a- k   &STh5'Y2&5  85                                   5J55%55 a-a- a- a-a-C5'apg 55 5
a-  - a-a-C  a- I a-  a-a-  aaa-a-aa-a-a-a-a-    0-   C-a--2  -''.a-            a'G2-<c'  a-'aa-a-a-a----4a-   a-a-a-
5                                               a
a-                  a-a-  aa.c.,                   a..        C-  a-a-  a-a   a-aa-a-  a-   a-a-  'aa-a-a-           Ca    a a-  a-        a-a-a-      a    --a-a--a- a  -a
as                        aa-  a-a-Ca-a-aa-5a-   CCa-a-C-a-a-  -4  aa-                                             -a      -a    a-a-a-a-a-a-  a-Ca-a-  a-a-a-a-a-a-  4-a-a
a                    Ca-  a-Ca-a- a.a-Ja      a-    aa-'a-  a-     a-CC  a-a-a-aao- aa'aa-a--aa-aa-a-a-                      a-aa-a--aa-."  ca-C   a   '----a-a-a.'
4-Ca-ac    -   C a- a-      -  -.4 a  'aoa-a-a-a-aa-a-    a-a-  4a-a-aaaC-    I 'a-    a-a--a- a-a-a  a- a- a-a-a-a-a-
a      a,  a-  a-            a-                a-a-a-    a-a  -a-a-a-
a-a-a-a-a a-Ia a ' ''.00 a-.a-'
a,                         a-
a-a-  aa-aaa-a-aa-    Ca    a-"  a-          a-a-C-  C-C-    Ca-a-  CC-a
a-   c'.                   -.    a                     a    a.                      I         C       IC       C'  IC  IC   Ca-C-            C
C   aCaaa-aa-a-a-aa-a- a- a--a    a-a-  a-a-a a-a-a-a   ta    a-a-  a-a- a-a-a-Ca-Ca-a-Ca- C  Ca-C  a-
a   Ca-CO.aa-a-Ca-  'a  a-a-  aa-aCa--aa---            a-a-  a- a-a-a- a-a-.a   a-,   a-a-Ca-a-a--a-  .'caa-  a,  a-c4a-CCC   a-Ca-  a-
I C
a-  aa-a,4-  a  a-  a-a  a-Ca-a--a-a-Ca-    a-C-    a-a-a-Ca-a-               a-a-  a-a-Ca.a  a-a-a  a-  CCa-CCa-  a-CC
a-    a                    a-   a.               I-a-    C       C        C-.       'CCCCC   a-a-  a
.4                                         a-a-a-    a-                     a-gaa-   a-a-a-a-a-  'a's-  a-
I-a  .sa-a-a-a-a-a-a--a       a-a-  a-a-a-a--Paa-a    S    a-a-Ca-a-a-a-  a-a-C   a-C-a-a-Saa-a-a-a---4
a-C.a-  a-a-l   Pa-C               C5                 -                     a-    -                      a-  a-          a-a-C       -a-a-a    a-Ca-  -2
aaC7   a-a-j   Cc   IS  Ccca-IaC-C              a5   a55                        a-a-2-           a    aa-a--a-c'  Ca-a-
a--a, a-    -'                            a    a-'C-aa-    a-Ca-  ,,  a-a-a-a-Ca-  Ca-a-
a-a-a-Ca-a- Pa SI.-. C-a-C a- C a a-a Ct.a-C.a Ca, a- a -a-- a-a-a-a-a-C-a- a-a-a-a-a-a- a-a aa-aa-a-a-aa- Ca-a C
a a a a-a a-5 ca- adS a-ca
a-a C       ca-a-a-  C-a a-                                                                                                                                                      cc.
a-  a-Sa-*  a-    a a'        a-                                                                                                                                                       liE
a-ca-a-a-C-       aaa,aICaacIC                      ca-95                   a-                   a-   a-                        a-              Ia-                CI   a-a-a    I    ca-
ta-a-a-a  'a   a-a-  C  ca-c
c-Ca-  a-C'       55.'5            a- a-C'  a'    a-ca-c   p         a-a'  a-a-aCCCC-a-a-    a- a   a-s-a a-  a-a-            a-a-a, Ca--a,  a-a-a-a-Ca-a-a-a-a-   C-a- C  45
ca    a-                             C'                                        .                     ,                                                         a-   a-
a'---.  a-c        a-5a-  a-    a-Cc   C                              a-a-a-a-a-Ca-C-a-a-       Ca-  a-a-a-a-a--a-a-   CO    Ca-a-a-a-Ca-Ca-a-a-C-a-a-Ca-a-a- Ca-
p                     ca-C   C    CC                      a-a-Ca,a-a-a-a-a-a-       a-  a-  a-a-  a--      .ca'a- C  Ca-    a-Ca-           Ca-a-a-Ca,  a-Ca-  a- a,  a-  a-a-a  a-Ca-a-Ca-a-a-a-a-   C  a-a- Ca-a-a-  a-a-a-    a-    a-
g3  S
S S
a-p
C-a-    CC        ca-a-    cc               P                                                                                                                                            a-
a-c    a-                   a-S        a-               a-a-                a-                   a    a                 C
a-a-       a               a-  a-        Pa-  CCCaa-Ca-C..a-         a-c.  a-l.a-Ca-5       I
C-C    .          a C-,                                 a   P           --  Ca-Ca-...              a-  C a- a-
C2  C             a a-a- a                                                                      a-a-            - -  I-
caC'-a-                             a-  p          Ca-  a-a-a,a-a'a-a-a-a-    a-a-  a,a-a-C   a-a-
a-                      P
a-  a- Ca-a-a, CC a-a-    a- a-  C a- a- a'  a- a-    a
--             a- a-a-    -aa-VIlla a-      a-a-a-                                                                  I
--a-  CC-a
a-  a-    a       _  a-      a-a-a-S                     C-a-a-a-Ca-Ca-       a-Pa         a-a-a-
a-a-a-    a-a-    a-a-a-     a--a-          .a-a4   a-a-a-a--a-a-a-a-        a-a-  a-a-a-CCa-'O-C    ca-I
a- a- C- a- a- a-  '''''            a-a-a-      a-a-a-                  a-  C-C-Caa,CCCC               a-a-Ca-
a-a-a-    a-CC                                                                 a-a-
Ca-    a                              C                            a-   a- Ca-a-a-a-a-  CCC   C   a-Ca-CCa-  Ca-a-  a-C
a-                a-a-a-    a-a-    a-a-a-                              a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a--.       0-'  a-5-' a- a-a-    -aa-           a-a-a-  a- C a-  a-a-a-a-a-Ca-a-a-a-    a,
- .                .........-'..'.                                   CC-
a-                                                                I                                                         a-
a-                                                    a-
a-                                                                 as
a-a-a--a-a-                  a-Ca-a- Pa     Ia-          a-a-C' a-a-a-a-      a-      a- a  a-aa    a-Cc                                                       a-
a-a-a-a-a-a-      a-a-a-    a-a    a-a-a-       a-a-a- a-      a-   -a a  -.Caa-a- ,aa-a-a-a-aa-a-.cCa-a-a-a-
a-a-a- a-           a-Ca-a'              a-a-a-a--a a-a-a-a-a- a-   a--,  -zccC-a
a-                                                       a-a                            C         C     a-C-  a-
a-                                               a-a-  Pa-.a- a- C a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a- a-
a-a-Ca,        L     a-a-a-a-a-Ca-Ca-            C-a-  .. a-             -    a-a'    a-a-a-
a- a-a-a-a-a      'a-a-     a-a-    a-a-a-      a-a-CS          -a    a-a-C-Ca-a-a-Ca-a-a-    Ca-  Caa- P
a-a-a-Ca- a-a- Ca-C-a-a-
a- a-a-a-a-a-                       ka-"o                            PLC-a-a-a-Ca-a-Ca-a-a-a-a-CC
a- a- a-    a     a-a-       5555            Ca-   a-a-  a-a-Ca                5-   a--a-a-         I a
Ca-a-a-a-    a-a-CC          Ca-a-a-               a-
a-a-a-a-a-a-      a-C-a-    a-a-    a-a-Ca-       'a-                 ss   ?PSYP'?'P'Rr    *   
V       a-a-a-a--a -a-a-a-a-    0-C  a-c'a-a-CCa-C    cJ
a-aa-a--a- I
C Ca-               a-
a-a,.- a- Ca-a-a-a Pa- a, a-a- a- -'c
a-a-a-    a-      a--         aaa- a-       p5         Ca-a-a, a-a-a-a-a    a-a-  a-Ca-a,  CC-         a-
a-a-a-a-a-a-                         a-a-a-           a         a-          .......
Ca-a-    a-a-                .:!  a--        I                                                       ci
a-Ca-    a-a-       a-a-      a-Ca- a-               a,  -CCCC-Ca-CC         Ca,  Ca-a-C   C-a-
a-a-C         I-al
a-a-a-a-a-a-      a-a-C     a-a-    a-a-C-      a- Ca- 






- 26
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK tOANS (as at April 30, 1980)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                        (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower             Purpose         Bank     Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                    268.2
949      1973      Republic of Peru         Education        24.0         12.9
1025     1974      Republic of Peru         Roads            26.0         0.8
1196     1976      Republic of Peru         Transport        76.5        59.0
1215     1976      Republic of Peru         Power            36.0        15.3
1281     1976      CENTROMIN               Mining            39.7        33.4
1283     1976      Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.       21.6        17.5
1358     1977      COFIDE                   Industry         35.0        21.4
1403     1977      Republic of Peru         Agriculture      25.0        24.8
S-11     1978      Republic of Peru         Preinvestment    8.8          6.0
1693     1979      Republic of Peru         Program Loan   115.0         38.2
1771     1979      Republic of Peru         Irrigation       56.0        56.0
1806 1/  1980      Petroleos del Peru       Pet. Prod.       32.5        32.5
1812 1/  1980      Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.       15.0        15.0
Total                                                779.3        332.8
of which has been repaid                          149.4
Total now outstanding                                629.9
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid          18.3            _
Total now held by Bank                               629.9
Total undisbursed                                                 332.8
1/   Signed, but not effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1980)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960       Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances  0.3               0.3
1960       Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks            0.3               0.3
1960       Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials         0.3              0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers          4.1              4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.               Cement            2.2      0.2     2.4
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement            1.1      0.5     1.6
1975       Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining           15.0             15.0
1978       Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining            2.0      0.5     2.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining            2.7      0.5     3.2
Total gross commitments                             28.0      1.7    29.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            12.1      0.4    12.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                    15.9     1.3    17.2
Total undisbursed                                     2.7     0.5      3.2



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution was
still hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage,
create a revolving fund and improve administrative procedures (see President's
memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project
execution has improved noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand
at about US$10.7 million.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which are financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion is now well advanced and should be completed this year; however, the
closing date is now being extended to permit the completion of studies being
done under the project.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project's river ports component has progressed slowly because
of technical problems which delayed completion of design, but it is now under
construction, although with some cost increases. There have been serious
delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because of
slow procedures and limited government implementation capacity. These
problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is beginning on
most project components. The project has been modified so as to increase the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to pr^se* i 1-'l-c- evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
Page 4 of 5
financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate improvement of
those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1979;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement prcblems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however, some
consultants have now been retained, and with strong support from the current
staff in the Ministry of Energy the program has begun to progress normally.
Because of the delays, the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, have delayed the
project by about one year. Most design work has now been completed and
construction of road components is underway. Because of past delays, however,
the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24. 1977: Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, has been delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counter-
part funds. The Government is now proceeding with the project with support
from a supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the financing
shortfall. Engineering and procurment acitvities on this part of the
project are well-advanced. Construction of the mine-water treatment
plant has also experienced some delays but is now advancing satisfactorily.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of Janaury 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan. In view of this, the
Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--has agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing.
The initial response has been encouraging and the credit line is now
over 70 percent committed, with full commitment expected by December 1980.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
works in two of the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved
and construction has started. The project's implementation is behind schedule
but is expected to catch up over the next 12-18 months as construction
proceeds.
Loan S-11:      Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million Loan of May 17, 1979; Effective
Date: May 24, 1979; Closing Date: July 17, 1980.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan is pro-
ceeding in a generally satisfactory manner. Because of better than expected
export performance, Peru' foreign exchange constraint has relaxed resulting in
a lag in disbursements of the program loan. Disbursements began to pick-up
markedly in September 1979 and stood at US$93.3 million as of May 25, 1980.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million
Loan of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980:
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is now getting underway.
Loan 1806-PE: Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of
March 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980. The conditions of effectiveness
for the loan are in the process of being satisfied.
Loan 1812-PE: Puno Rural Development; US$15 million loan of March 18, 1980;
Effective Date:                               ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980. The conditions of effectiveness
for the loan are in the process of being satisfied.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: One year
(b) Project prepared by: Bank and Government
(c) First presentation to the Bank and first Bank mission to consider
project: March 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal Missions: January and March 1980
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 16, 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1980
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that:
(a)  as conditions of loan effectiveness:  (i) the Project Agreement
would be executed (para 74); (ii) a consultant or consultants
acceptable to the Bank would be appointed to provide technical
advisory services for the project (para 75); (iii) PROBAYOVAR would
be publicly registered as a corporation and its shareholders would
ratify all corporate actions taken prior thereto (para 74); and
(iv) the senior staff of PROBAYOVAR, acceptable to the Bank, would
be appointed (para 74);
(b) a condition of disbursement for the second phase of the project
would be agreement among the Bank, the Government and PROBAYOVAR
that the results of the feasibility study confirm the technical
and economic viability of the Bayovar investment project (para 73);
(c) the qualifications, terms of reference and conditions of employment
of all consultants would be acceptable to the Bank and the consul-
tant(s) providing technical advisory services would be contracted
prior to the hiring of any other consultant (paras 74-75);
(d) any changes in the senior staff of PROBAYOVAR would require prior
Bank approval (para 74);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) after completion of the second phase, the Government and PROBAYOVAR
would exchange views with the Bank prior to taking a decision to
proceed with a Bayovar investment project (para 77);
(f) the loan funds would be transfered to PROBAYOVAR by the Govern-
ment as a capital contribution and the Government would cause the
shareholders of PROBAYOVAR--MINEROPERU, COFIDE and ENCI--to make
the necessary local counterpart funds available through equity
contributions to the company (para 78);
(g) any transfer of more than 15 percent of PROBAYOVAR's capital
stock or the incorporation of new shareholders in PROBAYOVAR
would require prior Bank approval (para 76); and
(h) the undertaking of pre-contracting activities would require prior
Bank approval (para 73).






IBRD 15062
A,r 8 80-30 p    :,,cz eo-                                                              79-30     MAY 1980
. .  -;  0 _    -                                          r /  )                 t           )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......
St \ S l 1>s-s</>x>ti 1z/ {I 4 \~~~~>> /2 -/// ( P E R U
K-, ,BAYOVAR PHOSPHATE PROJECT
PROJECT:
*-)SAAoCn  'iWV A  \  __  +3.Phosphate mining area
--    SULtANA   ~~~~~~   /  ~~~       7               S~   Pyrites mining location
-> '> /~Ch,~   ,'---~                               ~RANEB,                                            A,   Possible phosphotefertilizer plant locations
Potash mining area
EXISTING:
CHULUCANAS          La    Oil terminal
jA                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oil pipline
.'    )'-   Pan-American highway
Paved roads
Grovel roods
L.   Sea Ports
Rivers
Intermittent streams
A-.NA .rS 50 :W   D T   055 j A:tX1     1K>                  |       |Intermittent lake
t ' ;0 U  t  S   ; 2 %S   \  , |ZLADUNION (  \             \    13   Dry salt lakes
~~YE r r 2 0 0 $t 000 ; ' X MON r \ ~~~~~~~~~t    Airports S3
D Provincial capitals
r     Cities and towns
Provincial boundaries
<r  . .  ;I r -id    r       o *Az       |  \>      t     SE CHURA                              ;        tr
.:0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR i- 1 q20 03 0;  4\\  \ .r50j                     
4:  :    1 -J r~ ::r: B  '   4:    J      <   8  REVENTAZ0N'2\ 
~~~~   t''\                                                                                                        KILOMETERS 9      10      9      3        0      5
MILES o          ib           2            30
Br-30                                       0ro                                         79'30



