                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                             Report No.: AB6637

Project Name                      Bhutan Second Rural Access Project - Additional Financing
Region                                                  SOUTH ASIA
Country                                                    BHUTAN
Sector                                 Roads and highways (92%); Central government
                                                      administration (8%)
Lending Instrument                                            SIL
Project ID                                                  P100332
{If Add. Fin.} Parent Project ID                            P126715
Borrower(s)                                       KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
Implementing Agency                              DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
Environmental Screening          [ ]A [ ]B [ ]C [ ]FI [ ]TBD (to be determined)
Category
Date PID Prepared                                         June 7, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal                               June 8, 2011
Completion
Estimated Date of Board                                  June 30, 2011
Approval
Concept Review Decision          Following the review of the concept, the decision was taken
                                 to proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.     Introduction and Context

1.1. Bhutan has made significant economic progress, since opening up to the outside world in the
1960s. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Bhutan grew at an average rate of nearly 9 percent
during the Ninth Five-year Plan (2002/03-2007/07). The GDP growth rate in recent years is still
robust (averaging between 6-8 percent). The prudent macroeconomic management and rational
exploitation of its hydropower resources are mainly responsible for such high growth rates. The
per capita Gross National Income of Bhutan in 2009 was $2,020. This figure is higher than other
South Asia Region Countries, except the Maldives. Bhutan has made considerable progress in
the reduction of poverty (proportion of poor people fell from 36.2 percent in 2000 to 23.2 percent
in 2007). However, the poverty remains high in rural areas (30.9 percent compared with 1.7
percent in urban areas).
1.2. Road transport is the dominant transportation mode in Bhutan. The present road network
length is approximately 6,000km. The network comprises National Highways (28%), District
Roads (8%), Feeder Roads (15%), Farm Roads (23%) and other roads (26%). As of mid-2009
roughly 62 percent roads are paved, The existing roads network, in particular rural roads
network, still remains inadequate, in terms of both connectivity and coverage. Roughly one in
ten person in Bhutan live more than 6 hours away from a nearest motorable road. A significant
proportion of Bhutanese roads are in poor to very poor conditions.
1.3. The country’s transport sector strategy, similar to other national strategies and programs, is
framed by Bhutan’s Development Vision, which recognizes maximization of human happiness,

                                                1
and not only economic progress, as an overarching goal. The development strategy for the
transport sector has three broad objectives: (i) to facilitate balanced regional and urban
development, support internal trade and commerce, and integrate the relatively isolated central
and eastern regions with the rest of the country; (ii) to reduce the cost of international transport
and improve logistics of international trade and commerce; and (iii) to improve rural
accessibility (especially access to markets, employment, and education, health and social
services) in an environmentally sustainable and socially responsible manner.
1.4. Although the achievement of the rural accessibility improvement objective is constrained by
several challenges - the country’s rough and fragile terrain, obsolete road construction
technology and practices, and insufficient resources - the Rural Access Project (RAP-I), closed
on June 30, 2006, succeeded in coping with these challenges. RAP-I successfully constructed
129 km of roads using environmentally friendly methods, built and strengthened the capacity of
the public road sector, and supported piloting of community-based contracting for road
maintenance works. The Second Rural Access project (RAP II), which is currently being
implemented, is a follow-up “repeater” operation and has been designed to replicate the positive
lessons and good practices from RAP-I in three new districts of the country. RAP-II wants to
achieve the objective of rural access expansion. Rural access expansion was assigned a high
priority in PRSP/Ninth Plan and CAS 2006-091. These documents reflected the Government of
Bhutan (RGoB) and World Bank’s strategies at the time of RAP II design.
1.5 The original project (RAP II) has two components: (i) Component 1: Rural Access; and
(ii) Component 2: Capacity Development and Implementation Support. The Rural Access
component involves construction of new feeder roads (65km), upgrading of existing roads to all-
season feeder road standards (24km) and construction of bridges. RGoB has recently requested
the re-allocation of $ 0.596m of savings from the HIV/AIDS and STI Prevention and Control
Project to the Second Rural Access Project. RGoB has indicated that the savings will be used to
finance the Otta-sealing of two roads, which have a total length of approximately 18km. The
roads are part of Bajo-Shengana road (10.6km) and road to Samdingkha village (7.50km). A
portion of the first road has already been improved with low-cost sealing under the original
project. These roads are expected to enhance development impact of the investment already
made. Under the additional financing these two roads will be constructed. Also minor
restructuring of RAP II will be done under the additional financing.

II.       Proposed Development Objectives
The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the parent project is: Residents of beneficiary
Dzongkhags (Districts) utilize improved rural transport infrastructure and services. . No changes
are being proposed to the original Project Development Objective under the additional financing.
The last implementation review has rated the progress towards the achievement of the
development objective and the implementation progress as being satisfactory. The project was
reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group in May 2010 and a “satisfactory” rating was awarded.




1
    CAS 2006-09 was released on November 18, 2005.

                                                     2
III.      Preliminary Description
3.1 The proposed additional financing will utilize the capacity already developed within the
implementation agency and take into consideration of the lessons learnt during the
implementation of the original project.
3.2 The main components of the parent project will continue under the Additional Finance grant.
The additional finance for the project will include the following:
          i) The Road Access Component - Otta-sealing (around US$ 0.596 million, excluding
          contingencies) will include the following:
          a) Construction of two roads (Bajo-Shengana road and Samdingkha village road) will be
          Otta-sealed. The roads have a total length of 18km,
          ii) Proposed additional changes, as part of restructuring of the original project, include
          the following:
                  a) Change in length of roads for new construction. Construction of 10 km of new
                  roads.
                  b) Change in road for Otta-Seal pilot. The road access component of the original
                  project had envisaged that the pilot of Otta-seal would be undertaken on two
                  roads: Riju-Bartsham road and Tangmachu-Takila road. However, due to some
                  reasons those roads could not be Otta-sealed. In place of two roads the Otta-seal
                  piloting was undertaken on Bajo-Shengana road (6.2km).
                  c) Performance Based Maintenance Scheme. The Capacity Development and
                  Implementation Support Component included the provision of technical
                  assistance to the Pilot Performance Based Maintenance Mechanism. Given that
                  DOR has been piloting a Performance Based Maintenance Scheme using National
                  Work Force on its own initiatives, agreement was reached between Royal
                  Government of Bhutan and IDA to drop this activity.

IV.       Safeguard Policies that might apply

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                              Yes              No            TBD
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples ( OP/BP 4.10)
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)




*
 By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties’ claims on the
disputed areas

                                                                3
V.      Tentative Financing
Source:                                                           ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                  0.0
International Development Association (IDA)                         0.6
                                                          Total     0.6

VI.     Contact point
Contact: A. K. Farhad Ahmed
Title: Sr Transport. Spec.
Tel: 977-1-422-6792
Email: fahmed8@worldbank.org
Location: Kathmandu, Nepal (IBRD)

Borrower/Client/Recipient
Contact: Hon. Lyonpo Wangdi Norbu
Title: Honorable Minister, Ministry of Finance
Tel: +975-2-322211
Fax: +975-2-323617


Implementing Agencies
Contact: Mr. Tshering Paljore
Title: Project Coordinator, Second Rural Access Project
Tel: +975 2 326832
Fax No.: +975 2 326831
Email: rap3_phase2@yahoo.com

VII.   For more information contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-4500
       Fax: (202) 522-1500
       Email: pic@worldbank.org
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                 4
