                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2466



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-H2850)

                                     ON AN

                                  IDA GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6.7 MILLION

                       (US$l0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           KINGDOM OF BHUTAN

                                     FOR A

                     SECOND RURAL ACCESS PROJECT

                                   April 8, 2013




Sustainable Development Unit
Bhutan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective October 2012)
                         Currency Unit = Nu
                           Nul = US$0.02
                           US$l = Nu52.74


                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 - December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
BHU     Basic Health Unit
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DOR     Department of Roads
EA      Environmental Assessment
EFRC    Environmental Friendly Road Construction
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GNH     Gross National Happiness
GOI     Government of India
ICCR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IUFR    Interim Unaudited Financial Report
IDD     Investigation and Development Division
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KKTYR   Khotakpa-Khar-Tsebar-Yurung Road
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOWHS   Ministry of Works and Human Settlements
MTR     Midterm Review
NECS    National Environmental Commission Secretariat
NPV     Net Present Value
NWF     National Work Force
OP      Operational Policy
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPD     Policy and Planning Division
QA      Quality Assurance
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QALP    Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio



                                   2
QAP      Quality Assurance Plan
RAP I    Rural Access Project
RAP II   Second Rural Access Project
RGOB     Royal Government of Bhutan
SAF      Social Assessment Framework
SNV      Netherlands Development Organization
SQCA     Standard & Quality Control Authority




           Vice President:          Isabel Guerrero
           Country Director:        Robert Saum
           Sector Manager:          Karla Gonzalez Carvajal
           Project Team Leader:     A.K. Farhad Ahmed
           ICR Team Leader:          Mesfin W. Jijo




                                   3
                                                          BHUTAN
                                                  Second Rural Access Project



CONTENTS

 DATA SHEET ................................................................................................................5
    A. Basic Information ...............................................................................................5
    B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................5
    C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................5
    D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................6
    E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................6
    F. Results Framework Analysis ...............................................................................6
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .............................................................9
    H. Restructuring (if any) ..........................................................................................9
    I. Disbursement Profile .........................................................................................10

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................11
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................13
 3. Assessment of Outcomes...........................................................................................18
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................23
 6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................26
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........27

         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................28
         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..........................................................30
         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .....38
         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................39
         Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...........................................51
         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..............52
         Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................65
         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...............................................................66
 MAP ......................................................................................................................................................... 67




                                                                             4
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Bhutan Second Rural
Country:                Bhutan                  Project Name:
                                                                          Access Project
Project ID:             P100332                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2850
ICR Date:               07/09/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BHUTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 6.70M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
Process           Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 06/15/2006           Effectiveness:      05/16/2007            05/16/2007
Appraisal:        11/20/2006         Restructuring(s):                         11/01/2011
Approval:         04/10/2007         Mid-term Review: 03/31/2010               03/02/2010
                                     Closing:            10/10/2012            10/10/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                    Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Satisfactory
                        Moderately Satisfactory Implementing              Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower          Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                5
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                              QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                           Rating
Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry        Satisfactory
                              No
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of              Satisfactory
                              No
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    8                     8
Roads and highways                                                  92                    92


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                             33                    33
Rural services and infrastructure                                   67                    67

E. Bank Staff
Positions                    At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:              Isabel Guerrero                  Praful C. Patel
Country Director:            Robert Saum                      Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:              Karla Gonzalez Carvajal          Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:         A.K. Farhad Ahmed                Binyam Reja/Isabel Chatterton
ICR Team Leader:             Mesfin W. Jijo
ICR Primary Author:          Sati Achath

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project Development Objective was for residents of beneficiary Dzongkhags to
utilize improved rural transport infrastructure and services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objective was not revised.




                                                 6
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                           Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                           approval            Target        Completion or
                                           documents)          Values        Target Years
                Reduction in travel time of beneficiaries to key economic and social centers in
Indicator 1 :
                the nearest town by EOP.
Value
                1-15.5 hrs or 4-62 km to
quantitative or                           65%                              62%
                all-season road
Qualitative)
Date achieved Nov-2006                    30-May-2011                      30-July-2012
                The final socio-economic impact monitoring study reported 78% reduction
Comments
                achieved. However, the value computed by the ICR team is 62%.
(incl. %
achievement)
                Reduction in transportation costs of goods and supplies from/to beneficiary
Indicator 2 :
                villages to/from the nearest town by the end of the project.
                Unit costs of                                                    The project
Value
                human/animal transport:                                        restructuring
quantitative or                             50%
                Nu. 0.28-0.42 Per km per                                       dropped this
Qualitative)
                kg                                                             indicator
Date achieved Nov-2006                      30-May-2010                        NA
                This indicator was dropped at restructuring on account of its sensitivity to factors
                other than access. However, at the end of the project it was estimated that the
Comments
                transport costs have increased considerably since the baseline survey but are
(incl. %
                significantly less than the baseline cost of using pack animals.
achievement)


                Lower basic commodity prices in project villages than in unconnected villages as
Indicator 3 :
                a result of newly constructed roads by the end of the project.
                Baseline basic                                                  The project
Value
                commodity prices are                                            restructuring
quantitative or                             10%
                being collected on project                                      dropped this
Qualitative)
                roads.                                                          indicator
Date achieved Nov-2006                      30-May-2010                         NA
                This indicator and its baseline data collection was dropped at restructuring, when
                it was argued that it was sensitive to externalities. Nevertheless, during the ICR,
Comments        shop owners confirmed that villages on the RAP - II roads had experienced a
(incl. %        reduction in prices charged for common consumables so that they cost only 11%
achievement) more than prices for comparable goods in nearby towns, which was reported to
                have been manifold before the project. This is consistent with the findings of the
                RAP-I evaluation study.
                Overall beneficiaries' satisfaction with the improved delivery of road
Indicator 4:
                infrastructure.
Value
quantitative or N/A                         N/A                                  93%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   30-July-2012


                                                 7
                  By the MTR the satisfaction level was 91% increased to 93% by end of the
Comments
                  project. The assessment would have given a complete picture of the
(incl. %
                  beneficiaries’ perception before and after the intervention, had there been a
achievement)
                  baseline beneficiary survey.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
Indicator         Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                             approval                           Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                  Share of rural population with access to an all season road [% beneficiaries from
Indicator 1 :     Project Area (36 direct beneficiary villages (TBC) to be placed within 2 km or 30
                  min of walking distance to all-season
Value
(quantitative     0%                        60%                                  78%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011                          30-July-2012
Comments
                  As per results of the final socio-economic impact monitoring study report (May
(incl. %
                  2012)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     % of target feeder roads constructed.
Value
(quantitative     0%                        100%                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011                          30-July-2012
Comments
(incl. %          All the planned three feeder roads constructed.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     % of target feeder roads improved to all-season standards.
Value
quantitative or   0%                        100%                                 100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011                          30-July-2012
Comments
(incl. %          All 3 feeder roads improved to all season standard
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     % of target bridges constructed
Value
quantitative or   0%                        100%                                 100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011                          30-July-2012
Comments
                  Out of 8 target bridges 7 constructed. In one case vented causeway has been
(incl. %
                  constructed instead of a bridge.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     % of target feeder roads maintained to all-season standards.
Value                                                                            Restructuring
                  0%                        100%
quantitative or                                                                  process dropped



                                                    8
Qualitative)                                                                   this indicator.
                                                                               However, all
                                                                               handed over roads
                                                                               are now being
                                                                               maintained.
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     All planned training programs are delivered
Value             To be undertaken in YR1 Complete all                         Achieved
quantitative or                             training programs
Qualitative)
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011                        30-July-2012
Comments
                  The scope of training could have been defined in a better manner stating the
(incl. %
                  number of trainees and pre-defined specific training programs.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     DOR applies EFRC in all road projects regardless their sources of funding.
Value             0%                      EFRC applied in                     Applied in 5
quantitative or                           all road projects                   projects
Qualitative)
Date achieved     Nov-2006                  30-May-2011                        30-July-2012
Comments
                  EFRC was applied before the project and the baseline value of projects executed
(incl. %
                  using ERFC could have been established in a better manner.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                             Actual
    Date ISR
No.                     DO                        IP                         Disbursements
    Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
1     06/04/2007        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
2     10/23/2007        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            2.48
3     06/03/2008        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                 3.25
4     12/13/2008        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            3.25
5     05/16/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            4.77
6     08/26/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            4.77
7     04/15/2010        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            5.69
8     11/10/2010        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                            8.47
9     06/13/2011        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                           10.27
10    12/21/2011        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                           10.27
11    06/26/2012        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                           10.27

H. Restructuring (if any)

Level 2 restructuring was done in November 2011




                                                 9
I. Disbursement Profile




                          10
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and Sector Background: After opening up to the outside world in the 1960s,
Bhutan had made significant economic progress. As a result of prudent macroeconomic
management, and rational exploitation of its hydropower resources, Bhutan had
experienced Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 6 percent per annum over the
2002-2006 period. This sustained growth had led to increased GDP per capita from
US$470 in 1999 to US$760 in 2004. However, despite the country’s substantial progress
and measurable improvement in the population’s well-being, poverty remained acute and
was particularly high in remote rural areas where 69 percent of the people lived.

Sector Background: Road transport was the dominant transportation mode in Bhutan,
having grown substantially since the 1960s. At project preparation, road network
consisted of 4,153 km (around 62 percent paved) of roads, more than 4,300km of mule
tracks, 242 motorable bridges, and 336 pedestrian suspension bridges. Bhutan’s road
density, which was 0.1 km/km and 6 km/1000 inhabitants, was substantially higher than
in other developing countries of similar size and population.

Rural Accessibility: Rural communities suffered from inadequate accessibility, and were
poorly connected to basic social and economic services, which were mostly concentrated
in urban centers. About 21 percent of the Bhutanese rural households lived within one to
four hours of walking distance from the nearest all-season road, and another 21 percent
lived more than four hours away. Thus, many communities remained isolated and
dependent on animal and head-load transport. As a result, they had to pay 50-70 times
more for transporting their produce to the market in the nearest town than those living in
connected areas and using motorized transport. Despite the government’s effort over the
last few decades, the improvement in accessibility in Bhutan had remained to be
constrained by rough and fragile terrain, and scarce financial resources.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The Second Rural Access Project (RAP II) was aligned
with the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bhutan (2006-2009),
which was underpinned by three pillars: (i) expanding access to better infrastructure and
social services, and connecting communities to markets; (ii) promoting private sector
development and employment; and (iii) strengthening management of public resources,
and Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) of development outcomes. In doing so, the project
would directly contribute to: (i) infrastructure expansion and access improvement through
building new roads and improving the condition of existing roads to connect remote rural
communities to economic and social services; (ii) promotion of private sector through
outsourcing construction and maintenance contracts; and (iii) environmental conservation
through Environmental Friendly Road Construction (EFRC) methods. It would also be an
important intervention to consolidate and sustain the institutional development initiatives
started under RAP-I and further enhance the newly-created capacity in DOR and its field
divisions.



                                            11
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The PDO was for residents of beneficiary Dzongkhags to utilize improved rural transport
infrastructure and services. Key Indicators were:
       Travel time by targeted beneficiaries to economic and social centers will be
      reduced by 50 percent
       Transportation costs of commodities and supplies will be reduced by 50 percent in
      project areas
       Basic commodity prices in project villages will be 10 percent lower than in
      unconnected villages as a result of newly constructed roads.
       Overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved delivery of road
      infrastructure

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The objective was not revised. However, at the time of project restructuring in November
2011, two project outcome indicators were dropped as they were likely to be influenced
by external factors such as fuel prices, government regulated mule rates, increase in
global food prices, which were beyond the control of the project. The indicators dropped
were: (i) reduction in transportation costs of goods and supplies from/to beneficiary
villages to/from the nearest town; and (ii) lower basic commodity prices in project
villages than in unconnected villages.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The target beneficiaries were about 12,000 rural residents in several geogs (blocks of
villages) of Wangdue, Dagana, and Pemagtsel Dzongkhags, which had the highest
demand for access in Bhutan. The project also enhanced the capacity of the local
construction industry and the Department of Roads in the Ministry of Works and Human
Settlement.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project consisted of two components as follows:
Component 1: The Road Access (US$8.7 million) included the following:
(a) Constructing new feeder roads of approximately 65 km length in total
(b) Upgrading about 24 km of existing roads to all-season, feeder road standards
(c) Piloting low-cost sealing of feeder roads and performance based maintenance
mechanisms using the National Work Force (NWF) and/or community involvement or
petty contracting
(d) Upgrading eight bridges with a total approximate length of 116 meters.




                                           12
Component 2: The Capacity Development and Implementation Support (US$0.7
million) comprised of the following:
(a) Human resource development and training
(b) Technical Assistance to pilot performance-based maintenance mechanisms
(c) Project implementation support for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in Thimphu
and the three Project Management Units (PMUs) at project sites
(d) Socio-economic impact monitoring study
(e) HIV/AIDS awareness of construction workers through the Nation-wide program run
by the Ministry of Health.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised. However, scope of Components 1 and 2 were slightly
modified as mentioned in Section 1.7.

1.7 Other significant changes
Project Restructuring: A level 2 restructuring was done in November 2011 leading to the
dropping of two indicators and slightly modify the scope of components while keeping
the PDO and the number of components the same. The changes were:
 Dropping two outcome indicators: For details see Section 1.3
 Change in length of roads for new construction under Component 1: the length of
roads estimated at appraisal was eventually increased following detailed design, and 8.2
km of road section was included to the project to pilot low-cost surfacing technique.
 Change in road for Otta-Seal pilot: The corridor selected to pilot low cost surfacing
(Otta seal) was changed for technical reasons.
 Performance Based Maintenance Scheme: a similar scheme had already been
launched through the Asian Development Bank (ADB) financing; hence the activity was
dropped at mid-term review as redundant.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Background Analysis: The PAD provided a good analysis of the country and sector
background at appraisal; highlighted the challenges of access to essential services in
terms of sector, social and related indicators; identified constraints in addressing them
including the unique geographic and demographic environment coupled with the
financing and execution capacity constraints. The design and implementation of the
predecessor project (RAP I) has been reviewed through the ICR where relevant lessons
were drawn to inform the design of the repeater project. The analysis guided the design to
be simple and realistic, and also provided the knowledge base to align the project with the
overall objectives of the RGOB’s Ninth Five-Year Development Plan (2002-2007),
which included: (i) improving the quality of life and income, especially of the poor; (ii)
ensuring good governance, (iii) promoting private sector growth and employment
generation. These objectives were based on the home-grown concept of Gross National




                                            13
Happiness1 (GNH), which stresses maximization of human happiness as its overarching
goal.

Design and Quality at Entry: As noted above, the design benefitted from the analysis of
country and sector context at the time. The design also took into account the realities on
the ground and the opportunities available to deliver the project on time and at cost,
which the projects successfully achieved. The following design aspects positively
contributed to the achievements of project outcomes:
     The design was simple and straightforward aimed at addressing accessibility of
    the otherwise isolated communities in rural areas with relatively low population
    density and rough and fragile terrain. The project roads were packaged taking into
    account the rugged terrain, capacity of local contractors, environmental and
    geological characteristics of the area. This contributed to the timely completion of
    project activities, which in turn led to the timely time closure of the loan.
     RAP-II was the first project in the South Asia region to pilot the use of Country
    Systems that met the World Bank safeguard requirements, thus it was prepared in
    accordance with the requirements of the World Bank operational policy (OP/BP 4.00)
    “Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental and Social
    Safeguard Issues in Bank-Supported Projects? issued in March 2005. This enabled the
    Bank team to leverage some enhancement to the RGOB’s system to ensure
    equivalence with the Bank’s safeguard instruments.
     The environmental management system used in RAP II was built on the
    experiences of the predecessor project RAP I, (i) in which basic elements of EFRC
    was piloted, and (ii) which showed satisfactory performance in implementing the
    environmental safeguard requirements. As part of the project preparatory activities,
    an Environmental Assessment (EA) was undertaken with technical and financial
    assistance from SNV-Bhutan.
     Social Assessment Framework (SAF), developed on the basis of consultations
    with key stakeholders and beneficiary communities, was prepared by the DOR to
    define the policies, principles and processes for assessing social impacts on people
    affected by the project.
     The piloting of low cost surface sealing technique was an important value
    addition to minimize gravel usage in Bhutan where sourcing gravel poses a big
    environmental risk.
     The cost effectiveness criteria adopted to prioritize project roads, ensured
    transparency, equity and value for money. The approach is specifically appropriate to
    Bhutan where low density, scattered population pattern wouldn’t fit to the
    conventional cost/benefit and economic analysis models.




1
  ‘Gross National Happiness’ (GNH) is the philosophy which forms the cornerstone of Bhutan’s
development and which Bhutan is succeeding in implementing. Introduced by the Fourth King of Bhutan
in the 1970s, GNH presents an alternative model for development which places equal weight on the social,
spiritual, intellectual, cultural and emotional needs of a society as it does on material and economic gain.



                                                    14
Adequacy of Government Commitment: at the outset, the government demonstrated a
high level of commitment to the objectives of the project. (i) Noting the success in RAP I
and the significant unmet needs, the RGOB requested the Bank to finance a follow-on
project to the beneficiary dzongkhags of immediate priorities; (ii) maintained even
reinforced the PCU and other implementing units from RAP I operation; (iii) decided to
roll out EFRC method to other projects regardless of source of financing; (iv) established
an independent monitoring body with a focus on the environmental management of the
project, comprising of different agencies and; (v) accepted Bank’s advice implemented
the enhancement of the Government’s environmental management system to be at par
with the Bank. This prompted the Bank to adopt the country’s safeguard management
system.

Adequacy of Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures: Key risks were identified based on
the lesson from RAP I and sector analysis. These were: (i) environmental damage; (ii)
geological risk; (iii) weak financial management capacity; and (iv) procurement staff
turnover by transfer. Appropriate mitigation measures and monitoring mechanisms were
put in place. The residual risks were assumed to be low to medium which were re-
assessed and reconfirmed at MTR, while a few more risk areas and mitigation measures
were identified and monitored.

Adequacy of participatory processes: Rural beneficiaries were consulted not only as part
of project planning, but also during implementation. The consultation process helped in
creating a sense of ownership among the beneficiaries for the assets created. Further, the
government also provided adequate staffing and resources for the implementation.

Quality at Entry: A Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-I) was carried out
in May 2010 by a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel of reviewers for the project.
The panel rated the quality of design, strategic relevance and approach, fiduciary
safeguards, and the likelihood of achieving DOs as Satisfactory. QAG noted that: (i)
Quality of the Results Framework at the design stage was adequate; (ii) Adequate
attention was given to technical and economic analyses to justify the project’s
interventions.

The ICR team however noted that the design could have benefitted from a more thought-
out and realistic result framework, which ensures a strong linkages of indicators with the
stated PDO and ease data collection and result monitoring .

2.2 Implementation
Government’s continued commitment and proactivity: The Government was able to
continue with the momentum on RAP I, reinforced the teams and dedicated for RAP II
implementation. Necessary training programs were planned on various areas of project
implementation and delivered in the first year of implementation. PWD improved key
processes which made a difference in project implementation, these were:




                                           15
    (a) Quality of Procurement Documents: The DOR prepared procurement documents
    on a quality-first-time principle which led to a minimal time in securing its own
    internal approval as well as for Bank’s response.

    (b) Introduction of the Interim Payment Certificates (IPC) which had to be paid
    compulsorily every two months. Internal systems had arrangements for clearing
    contract bills within 30 days. This had greatly improved the cash flow of the
    contractors resulting in good progress and timely completion of most projects.
RGOB was quick to cover the marginal cost increase encountered during implementation,
demonstrating a strong commitment to the project.
Midterm Review (MTR) and regular implementation support: A joint Midterm Review of
the project was conducted in March 2010, which recommended minor (level-2)
restructuring. The Bank had provided regular implementation support, through visits
from field offices to project sites and implementing entity’s offices. While the
restructuring enabled the Borrower and the Bank to focus on improving progress and
realism, the Bank support was crucial to direct the client’s attention to issues as they
cropped up and shared global experiences.
There have been implementation challenges threatening the project outcomes:
       (i) Capacity constraints of contractors: As the construction industry was fairly
       new in Bhutan, the project had difficulty in getting local contractors who could
       meet the financial capacity and turnover requirements set by the project. This
       situation had led to delays in getting contractors for some civil works.

       (ii) Delay in securing clearances: In the first year of implementation delays were
       noticed in issuing forest clearance for crusher site. In addition, contractors were
       also facing problems in procuring machine made gabion wire mesh from Nepal.

       (iv) Adverse weather: Incidences of heavy rainfall than anticipated, monsoon
       damages, landslides, and extreme cold weather had caused delays in project
       implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: The project M&E design could have been refined and be a more useful
tool to monitor the project. Four outcomes and seven intermediate outcome indicators
were defined. A socioeconomic survey instrument was designed to collect data and
compile report before, after and at midterm of the project implementation. The PDO as
stated emphasizes the utilization of improved transport infrastructure and services; but
the result framework did not include indicators that directly measure the PDO. These
indicators could be in the form of increased number of vehicles, increased frequency of
trips, etc. The defined indicators however are still proxy to the PDO outcomes. For
example the ‘reduction of travel time’ attracts more potential beneficiaries to use the
improved services, so does the ‘decrease in transport cost’. The intended PDO outcomes
related to utilization were somehow captured either in the socioeconomic report or noted
during the ICR mission visit to the project sites.


                                           16
M&E implementation: the M&E framework was implemented to a reasonable extent.
The PCU was regularly collecting data according to the indicators developed during
project preparation and implementation. These data especially of the outcome indicators
were regularly monitored and compared with the target values. The PCU, as part of its
regular monitoring, was providing monthly and quarterly progress reports to the Bank.

M&E utilization: the framework with its few shortcomings had still been important for
project monitoring and decision making. Appropriate data collected by the PCU from
monthly and quarterly reports of indicators was evaluated and appropriate actions were
taken as implementation progressed. For example, implementation issues at work sites
which could not be resolved by PMUs were reported to the PCU, which in turn would
take decisions for resolving them, either unilaterally or in consultation with the DOR. In
addition, these reports were useful to the Bank for monitoring implementation progress
and also for guiding the PCU to take remedial measures on implementation issues. The
joint MTR however re-assessed the appropriateness of the outcome indicators and
dropped two of them. It was an opportune time to include indicators measuring the use of
the built infrastructures and services.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance: Both social and environmental safeguards have been assessed as
satisfactory.
Social Safeguards: All actions on social safeguards agreed with the Bank were complied
with. It was reported that replacement land of some 80 affected households was handed
over as per the RAP in an orderly fashion along with the provision of the R&R assistance
grant-which amounts to the value of the 50% of land acquired. The necessary disclosure
of RAPs has been done both in-country and the Bank’s infoshop.
Environmental Safeguards: EA categorization for this project was B since this project’s
civil works were small and would be implemented following EFRC methods, which
emphasized phased construction and bioengineering for slope stabilization. EA had been
disclosed as per Bank policy. All agreed actions were complied with by the DOR.
Fiduciary Compliance: The project complied with fiduciary covenants during
implementation. IUFR’s have been submitted timely almost all the time. Internal control
arrangements were in place, and adequate financial management, procurement, and
disbursement systems were maintained.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(a) Transition arrangements for O&M: (i) the roads constructed under RAP II have already
been handed over to the closest DOR regional offices, which are well established and
responsible for the Operation and Maintenance (O&M); (ii) Ministry of Finance (MOF) has
kept a discipline of appropriate budget allocation to O&M based on a pre-agreed norms and
the road categories (see table below).




                                           17
 Road type                              Maintenance type   O&M budget (Nu)
 Dzongkhag/Feeder roads                 Routine            60,000/km-year
 Secondary National Highways            Routine            80,000/km-year
 Primary National Highways.             Routine            87,000/km-year
 For all roads                          Emergency          2 million per division office
 For all roads                          Periodic           On a need base
Source: DOR

The budget earmarked for the Fiscal Year 2013-14 (July 2013 to June 2014) by the DOR’s
respective road divisions is as indicated below: (i) Jangchucholing- Trashidingkha road Nu
1,062,845; (ii) Drujeygang-Balung Road: Nu 1,526,850; and (iii) Khotokpa-Khar-Tsebar-
Yorung Road: Nu 2,165, 850 respectively. The ICR site visit mission noted routine
maintenance was already taking place on the project roads.

(b) Follow-on project: Since recently the RGOB decided to switch the Bank’s support
entirely to Development Policy Lending , no specific investment lending for rural roads is
envisioned.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of Objective: The background analysis identified that the potential beneficiary
dzongkhags and geogs were up to 15 hours away from all-season roads, deprived of
access to basic economic and social services. Provision of the much needed access was
therefore the top priority of the then Five Year Government’s Plan as was for the Bank’s
CPS2. This was also the central focus around which the PDO was defined which made it
highly relevant at its preparation. The current 10th Five Year Plan and the 11th Five Year
Plan under preparation are both providing emphasis on poverty alleviation, which also
concurs the PDO still remains relevant. Further, the PDO was also linked directly to
GNH targets.

Relevance of design and implementation: The core design of the project and
implementation arrangements remain highly relevant. For example, the institutional
arrangements; social and environment safeguards arrangements; funds flow and;
disbursement methods have been appropriate for the operation and did not need
restructuring. Likewise, implementation process of RAP II had also turned out to be
effective and efficient for achieving the project objective. M&E and reporting could have
been improved by defining the indicators more appropriately and establishing baseline
values earlier.

Rating: Considering these factors, the relevance of objectives, design, and
implementation is rated as Significant.



2
    Report No:56577-BT; dated October 27, 2010



                                                 18
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives:
Rating: Satisfactory

The project has been successful in achieving the targeted outcomes even surpassed them.
It also generated some unintended positive outcomes to the beneficiaries. The four
indicators identified in the PAD appear more proxy to the intended outcome- “utilization?
of the improved services. The achievement of the outcomes has also been demonstrated
by a number of other indicators not included in the PAD, which the ICR documented
them below.

Thus, considering the project’s achievements on the above three aspects, the outcome is
rated Satisfactory.

(i) PDO indicators: The following is an account of the achievement of the PDO
indicators identified in the PAD.
Outcome Indicator 1: Changes in Travel Time. Table 5 in Annex 3 suggest that there
has been a 623% reduction in travel time to socio economic facilities and some 62% of
communities are now within 30 minutes
walking distance of an all season road.
Outcome Indicator 2: Changes in
Transportation Costs. Site visit confirmed
that beneficiaries along the Drujeygang-
Balung road had seen significant shift
from the use of mules and head loading to
motorized transport, mainly in the form of
single and double cabin pickups capable of
carrying up two and one ton loads
respectively. The transport costs have
increased considerably since the baseline
survey but are significantly less than the baseline cost of using pack animals (See Table 6
in Annex 3).
Outcome Indicator 3: Changes in Beneficiary Satisfaction. 91% of those interviewed at
the mid-term stage were satisfied with the road and this increased to 93% at the
completion stage. In both surveys, some
80% of respondents recognized the
reductions in travel time brought about by
the improved roads, with 45% reporting a
substantial reduction in travel time.
Similarly, some 85% of road users rated
improved safety as the most important



3
    The socio-economic survey reports 78%, but the ICR economic analysis recomputed it ot be 62%



                                                   19
benefit brought about by the improved road.
Outcome Indicator 4: Changes in the Price of Commodities. Site visit confirmed that
the RAP - II roads had the effect of narrowing price differentials for common
commodities. It is reported by key informants that the price that farmers received in the
last season had exceeded all expectations and was approximately 30 Nu per kilogram or 5
Nu per piece, some ten times the price reported in the Appraisal Document. Traders have
started to use the improved roads to gain access to farmers who prefer to sell at the “farm
gate?.
(ii) Other Indicators. The following is an account of the achievement of the intended
outcomes as demonstrated through indicators not included in the design.

Increased frequency of trips: End of the project (2012) Socio-Economic Impact
Monitoring Survey showed that the number of people making 8 to 10 trips and more than
10 trips in a month substantially increased between the midterm survey and the Final
survey indicated a higher use rate by the respondents as the roads have opened up the
much sought after service centers (health, education, communication, shopping, social
occasions etc.)

Increased motorized traffic: a moving observer traffic count undertaken during the site
visit for economic analysis showed that about 40 to 50 motorized vehicles are using the
improved Drujeygang - Balung road on a daily basis. The majority of these vehicles were
privately owned, with some 30 to 40 vehicles reportedly purchased by the residents of
Tshangkha since the road was completed in 2011.

Increased production of cash crops: It has been reported that farmers have started
increasing the production of cash crops in response to better marketing opportunities
because of the utilization of new rural roads. For example, it was estimated that the
acreage under orange trees has increased by about 10% since the completion of the road.

Increased income from agriculture produces: Compared with the baseline data, the
household ex-post income from agriculture produces has increased by 206% and
livestock products by 78%.

Reliable supply lines for emergency relief operations: the project roads are acting as the
supply lines even during the severe winter months there by ensuring accessibility to
government agencies to maintain supply of essential food items.

Alternate sources of income from taxis and other commercial vehicles: The emergence of
the new roads shifted the dominance of the non-motorized mode of transport to
motorized transport. Taxis and other commercial vehicles have started to ply on these
roads providing transport based alternate sources of income to the communities and a
turnaround in the earnings from transport sector has been observed in the Final Survey
results.




                                            20
Increased land prices: The project also resulted in increased land prices in the project
area. When compared with the baseline figures, in some cases there has been a fourfold
increase in land prices.

(iii) Innovative concepts implemented by the project.

Use of Bhutan's Country System for environmental management: RAP II embodied
Bhutan’s Environmental and Social Safeguard management system, which allows the
DOR to further test and consolidate the system for a better roll out across the nation.
Technical Audit: The project conducted bi-annual Technical Audits through the
Investigation and Development Division (IDD) in-house as well as a third party audit by
Standard and Quality Control Authority (SQCA) to ensure quality control and
transparency.

Quality Assurance: The project has helped the DOR in introducing a system of Quality
Control during the road construction in Bhutan. Inspection formats (Request For
Inspection, Non Compliance Report etc), field QC test formats, list of basic field test with
the test frequencies, procedure for Job mix formula and work methodology for base
course works were prepared and distributed to all the PMUs.

EFRC: Even though the concept of EFRC was introduced in DOR in the year 2000
through the Rural Access Project I, RAP II has further strengthened the EFRC capacities
of DOR/contractors through trainings, on control blasting and bio-engineering and
implementation of EMP.

Rating: In light of the project’s many successful achievements as described above, the
outcome is rated as Satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
There were no project time and cost over runs. The road construction component was
completed in May 2012 some five months ahead of the project completion date of
October 2012. The project achieved its physical targets of constructing some 67 km of
new roads and upgrading some 23km of existing road and did so within the overall
project budget of US$8.7 million dollars. The ex-post economic evaluation has shown a
robust return on the investment made.

All the road construction and upgrading contracts were completed and the targets were
achieved. RAP-II had the following approximate targets: 65km new road construction
and 24km road upgrading. The achievements are: 66.93km of new roads constructed and
23.34km of roads upgraded. Also the project constructed 15.2km of Otta-seal roads.
These achievements have significantly benefitted the people living in the three
Dzongkhags of Wangdi, Dagana and Pemagatshel.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory


                                            21
The PDO remains relevant all along, timely and appropriate to the current needs of
Bhutan’s infrastructure sector. The targets for outcome and output indicators have been
significantly achieved in a timely manner. The design of the project proved to be efficient
in (i) completing project activities within almost the planned cost and ahead of the
intended time; and (ii) implementing the design alternative which resulted in a robust ex-
post economic return EIRR.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty Impacts: In the short-term, the project had provided employment opportunities
to the locals, which directly contributed to income generation and livelihood
improvement of the local people in the project areas. In the long term, driven by
increased demand for their produce which in turn is triggered by improved transport
access, farmers are now receiving higher prices on their commodities. Farmers are
reported to claim “fair? negotiated price for their crops by using mobile phones to check
prices in nearby towns. Further, farmers are increasing the production of the cash crops in
response to better marketing opportunities. The periodic monitoring of socioeconomic
impacts carried out showed that the project has brought in multiple economic gains for
the beneficiaries and thereby significantly contributed to reduce poverty between mid-
term and end-project.

Gender Aspects: The reduction in travel time significantly reduced the multi-task burden
of women, the opportunity cost of their time and dependence on men and thus increased
their productivity, mobility choices and access to health and education services. With
improved transportation facilities resulting from new roads, women are able to travel to
nearby towns in vehicles, sell their produce, and earn higher incomes. Women’s
increased income reduced their vulnerability. As new schools and hostels for students
have been constructed in the project areas, more girls are now attending schools.

Social development: Under the project, awareness generation programs on HIV/AIDS
were carried out on RAP roads. Information was disseminated through pamphlets; and
posters were displayed in the camps for all contracts under RAP II. Better transportation
facilities improved communication among different communities and enabled them to
mingle with each other more frequently. Improved social interaction resulted in boosting
the confidence level of people living in remote areas. Ambulance services are now
accessible to remote areas are easily for emergency medical treatment at the nearest Basic
Health Units (BHUs)/hospitals.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact as demonstrated by
the following:

Impact on social safeguards management: The overall social safeguards management
improved with the help of the project. The project brought about awareness on social
safeguards, like management of social issues at the field, consultative procedures,



                                            22
grievance redressal mechanism, complaints register, capacity building in preparation and
implementation of Resettlement Action Plans, social safeguards trainings and workshops.

Capacity building in the DOR: Capacity of DOR staff has improved significantly because
of various training programs. The field staff were involved in community consultations
during the preparation stage and that helped them to conduct consultations without any
external help during the implementation stage.

Use of Bhutan's Country System for environmental management; Quality Assurance; and
Technical Audit (details are in Section 3.2)

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
     Because of increased awareness on EFRC applications, capacity level of the
    public on bioengineering techniques has improved for preventing and mitigating
    landslides.
     RAP II roads helped in partly fulfilling the government manifesto by connecting
    four Gewog Centers to motorable roads.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
See Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Ratings: Negligible to Low

The risk to the development outcomes to be sustained is low. The outcomes started to
realize even at midterm of implementation evidenced by some of the indicators like
increased trip frequency. Government demonstrated its commitment to O&M through the
well-established maintenance units and a good budget discipline. However
complementary investments in transport services, health and market centers and other
rural infrastructure will be important to fully rip the benefits of improved access. The
project roads will continue to remain as the single mode of transport infrastructure for
rural communities for a foreseeable future.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project
design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management. Two alternatives were
considered for the project design. In addition, risk factors and lessons drawn from RAP-I
were considered and incorporated into the project design.




                                           23
The repeater project instrument was used to streamline and accelerate project processing.
The project was prepared within nine months (from Project Concept Note review to
Board approval). Project design and preparation benefited from a strong task team and
peer review comments, especially on the social aspects. Further, there were an adequate
number of specialists who provided the technical skill mix necessary to address sector
concerns and a good project design.

The Bank contributed in introducing appropriate field/material tests to suit the local
resources and technical audit by a third party to ensure the quality, modification of base
course specification, piloting of low cost pavement technology and performance based
maintenance contracts with NWF. The knowledge and experience of the Bank staff in the
region has helped technology transfers incurring substantial improvement in the quality
of roads in this project. To the above extent, the Bank performance was satisfactory.

On the other hand, the design could have a much robust and realistic M&E framework.
While the four indicators are relevant to the PDO, better indicators could have been
defined to directly measure the emphasized outcome - “to utilize improved infrastructure
and services?. In addition:
     Baseline values were not available for some indicators, or not properly collected
    and established for some others.
     The two outcome indicators were dropped as they were likely to be influenced by
    factors other than improved access. This could have been foreseen at appraisal.
     Performance Based Maintenance Scheme was dropped from the project not to
    duplicate with another pilot financed by ADB using NWF. A scheme that would be
    implemented through private contractors could have been designed on other corridors.

Taking these factors into account, the overall Bank performance in ensuring Quality at
Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

QALP-I carried out in May 2010 by the QAG panel supervision inputs and processes as
Satisfactory. Candor and realism of ISRs, and focus on development effectiveness were
rated moderately satisfactory/likely.

According to the ICR team, the Bank's performance during the implementation of the
project was moderately satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated,
and the project was adequately supervised, and closely monitored. The task team
prepared Aide-Memoires regularly and alerted the government and the DOR to problems
with project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with
Bank procedures. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and
project implementation. The task team monitored safeguard and fiduciary compliances,
and carried out MTR in March 2010.




                                           24
Bank’s procurement and financial management staff worked with the PCU staff to
explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, with regard
to procurement of goods and works, and selection of consultants, accounts and audits,
based on the Grant Agreement.

The Bank team however missed the opportunity at the MTR and thereafter to make good
the shortcomings of the M&E framework.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above,
overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

As mentioned in Section 2.1, the government had shown its commitment to the PDO at
the time of project preparation. Further, the 20-year Road Master Plan of RGOB
facilitated selection of priority feeder roads and it contributed to ownership.

The government consistently maintained its commitment throughout the implementation.
For example, the government ownership in addressing environmental and social aspects
(including safeguards) was very receptive to the Bank team’s constructive suggestions
and advices. The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a
continuous basis, and cooperated fully with the task team. The government officials were
very responsive in taking corrective implementation measures, and were effective in
dealing with the operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were
usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures
were duly authorized before they were incurred; and documentation was maintained
properly for periodic review.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
DOR
Technical & quality assurance: DOR had an established system for quality assurance.
Two types of audits were conducted to ensure quality and transparency of road works of
RAP II roads: (i) Bi-annual Technical Audits through the IDD; (ii) a third party audit by
SQCA. The roads were under the intense supervision of the PMUs that were set up at
road sites. The PCU, the main apex body for the project implementation and
coordination, was strong and proactive in carrying out all aspects of project management,
such as financial management, procurement arrangements, reporting activities, and
disbursements:




                                            25
Financial management: The Financial Management performance of the project remained
satisfactory throughout the project term. To the extent possible, financial management
and disbursement arrangements used the country government systems. As the country
systems continued to be strengthened (either through Bank support or otherwise), the FM
capacity in the projects also improved. The project activities were budgeted within the
overall budget of RGOB. The submission of the quarterly Interim Unaudited Financial
Reports (IUFRs) was mostly on time. Good FM staffing at PCU also made a big
difference to the FM performance of the project.

Procurement: The procurement performance was satisfactory. Apart from the initial
delays in preparation of bidding documents and noncompliance with the Bank’s no
objection procedures, there were no problems with the procurement process leading to
contract awards.

Social & Environmental Safeguards: Safeguards issues of the roads were addressed as
per agreement with the Bank.

Reporting Arrangements: The PCU submitted all required quarterly and annual reports
in a timely manner. The status of performance indicators were incorporated in all
progress reports and served as valuable input to Bank supervision mission reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

In light of the Government and DOR performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Design of appropriate M&E: it is prudent to ensure a strong linkage between intended
outcomes and indicators. Indicators that are likely to be affected by externalities should
be avoided, or if feasible, a methodology such as panel survey that filters the effect of
externalities should be designed. Once defined at appraisal, indicators should be
periodically be assessed for their continued relevance with the PDO; and use
opportunities such as restructuring to correct any misalignment. At appraisal ensure
appropriate mechanism is in place for baseline data collection.

Independent Monitoring: in a global biodiversity ‘hotspot’ like Bhutan, environmental
issues are given at most attention. The independent monitoring body comprising of
different agencies proved to be exemplary in achieving the required level of
environmental compliance during project implementation. This practice should be
streamlined in all PWD’s operations.

Documenting specific experiences: while the EFRC framework is the best response to
the environmental concerns in road construction in Bhutan, some of the specifics
guidelines need to be tailored to local situations. Efforts should be taken to document



                                           26
the lessons learned in different geographic, geologic and climatic locations while
applying the EFRC framework. For example, trench barriers are found effective in
controlling spoil spill over in certain situations compared to other methods, cutting in
steep slopes, water management, etc. Experiences such as these need to be used for future
works, discussed and used for revising EFRC guidelines and specifications.
Economic Evaluation: in a situation where low density populations live in mountainous
terrain, the construction costs are high and economic benefits are low. This undermines
the application of conventional cost benefit analysis, which focuses on the savings
accruing to the vehicles using the roads, or the effects of transport cost reductions on
agricultural producers living along the road. Cost effectiveness criteria as a road planning
tool is therefore a pragmatic and acceptable approach for ranking or prioritizing roads.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower reviewed and has No comment on the draft ICR
(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                            27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                  Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage    of
Components                                        Estimate      (USD
                               (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                  millions)
Road Access Component                 8.68                10.84           92.00%
Institutional Development &
Implementation Support               0.69               0.92             8.00%
component

Total Baseline Cost                  9.37              11.76              100%
Physical Contingencies               0.43               0.00               0.00
Unallocated                         0.20               0.00                0.00
Total Project Costs                 10.00              11.76
Project Preparation Fund                    0.00               0.00        0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00               0.00        0.00
Total Financing Required            10.00              11.76             100.00%




(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal    Actual/Late
                                  Type      of Estimate     st Estimate Percentage
Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing (USD          (USD        of Appraisal
                                               millions)    millions)
RGOB                                               0.00         1.50        13%
International Development
                                                   10.00         10.26       87%
Association (IDA)




                                         28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Road Access
Construction & Upgrading of Feeder Roads: RAP-II has following achievements against the
approximate targets:
                 Sub-component                  Approx. Target          Achievement
                 Road construction              65km                    66.93km4
                 Road Upgrading                 24km                    23.34km
                 Piloting of low-cost sealing   Not applicable          15.2km
                 Construction of bridges        8 numbers; span116m     7 numbers; span 97m

The civil works new road construction of 66.93 km as against target of 65km and road
improvement of 23.34km against target of 24.34km has been completed. This has
immensely benefitted the rural people of the three Dzongkhags of Wangdi, Dagana and
Pemagatshel.

Piloting of low cost sealing was done successfully in Drametse 7km and Bajo Shengana
8.2km. Performance Based Maintenance Scheme and maintenance contracting is on-
going in DOR.

New bailey bridges and RCC bridges, a total of 102.768 m was constructed against a
target of 116m.
Rating: Satisfactory
Component 2: Capacity Development and Institutional Support
All the human resource development and training activities have been completed.
Procurement of vehicles and equipment has also been completed.
Socio-economic impact monitoring study has been completed.
The following table summarizes this component’s achievements.
Sub-component                               Achievement
Human resource development and              6 planned activities completed successfully
training
Technical assistance to pilot               DOR has completed a study in Sept, 2009, report
performance-based maintenance               produced and actions taken as per the study
mechanism                                   recommendations.
Project implementation support              10 planned activities completed successfully
socio-economic monitoring study             Study completed and the final report submitted

Rating: Satisfactory




4
    Excluding the Otta-seal work on Bajo-Shengana Road (3.40-11.60km) and Drametse Feeder Road.



                                                  29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

A Introduction
The RAP- II project was designed to build on the success of RAP – I, through continued
International Development Association (IDA) support to the Department of Roads in the
Ministry of Works and Human Settlement. This second RAP had two main components.
The first implementation component concerned the construction and improvement of
some 90 5 kilometres of high priority feeder road in Dagana, Pemagtsel and Wangdue
Dzongkhags. The three Dzongkhags had been identified as some of the least accessible in
the country and RAP- II was expected to deliver improved rural transport infrastructure
and services to some 12,000 beneficiaries, living in these Dzongkhags as its development
objective. Four outcome indicators were identified as suitable for monitoring the
achievement of this development objective:-
    (i) travel time by targeted beneficiaries to economic and social centres will be
         reduced by 50%;
    (ii) transportation costs of commodities and supplies will be reduced by 50% in
         project areas;
    (iii)overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved delivery of road
         infrastructure; and
    (iv) basic commodity prices in project villages will be 10% lower than in unconnected
         villages.
The second capacity building component focused on the consolidation of the institutional
changes achieved by RAP- I by strengthening the ability of the Department of Roads
(DOR) to plan, develop and maintain its network of feeder roads.
The selection of the three priority roads and the impact of the resultant road
improvements, which formed the implementation component of RAP – II, are assessed
below:
B The Use of Cost Effectiveness to Prioritize the RAP – II Road Construction
Program
The identification and prioritization of the three Dzongkhag roads for construction
involved the use of priority rankings outlined in the Royal Government of Bhutan’s Road
Sector Master Plan (RSMP) in Table 1:




5
   This total included some 25 kilometres of existing road for improvement in addition to
the proposed 65 kilometres of newly constructed roads.



                                           30
Table 1. RGOB Feeder Road Priority Rankings
Priority Ranking                    Range of cphh (Nu.) million
A                                   < 0.5
B                                   0.51 – 0.99

C                                   1.0 – 1.49

D                                   > 1.5


These rankings were developed from RAP- I data and used feeder road construction costs
per household beneficiary (cphh), as a measure of the cost-effectiveness of the
investment. The three roads selected for improvement were all considered to be Priority
A roads and were subject to further economic analysis which suggested likely economic
rates of return of at least 12%. Table 2 summarizes these thresholds for RAP - I, the RAP
- II Appraisal and Completion by adjusting RAP- I 1999 prices to 2005 (RAP- II
Appraisal) and to 2011 for this Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Table 2. Cost Effectiveness Thresholds
EIRR        Investment per beneficiary, USD/per person: threshold in US$
                                                             Completion of RAP -
            RAP - I                  RAP - II Appraisal
                                                             II
10%                  650                       797                    1,144
12%                  560                       687                     986
15%                  450                       552                     792
NB The Adjustments to the Threshold values for 2011 used the Consumer Price Inflation data derived from
World Bank and IMF Economic and Financial Indicator data.
Tables 3 and 4 summarize the results of the cost effectiveness analysis at Appraisal and
Completion of RAP – II, the latter using actual contract costs and the household data
from the Socio-economic monitoring reports. Disappointingly, there is a mismatch
between what was predicted at appraisal (Table 3), from that achieved after
implementation (Table 4). This largely reflects the small number of beneficiaries and
high construction costs of the Jangchucholing - Tashidingka road in Wangdue
Dzongkhag. The interaction of these cost benefit parameters reduced its estimated
economic rate of return (EIRR) from more than 12% to less than 10%. In contrast, the
other two roads are significantly more cost effective with estimated EIRR’s in excess of
12% in the case of the Khar-Tsebar-Yurung road and 15% for the Drujeygang - Balung
road.
Table 3. Cost Effectiveness Analysis of the Proposed New Roads at Appraisal
Dzongkhag       Road                    Total             Length     Estimated    Investment     Investment
                                        Beneficiaries     (km)       cost (US$    per    km,     per
                                        (residents                   million)     US$     per    beneficiary
                                        +10% visitors)                            km             US$      per
                                                                                                 person
WANGDUE         Jangchucholing-         3,284             13.7       2.0          144,949        603



                                                  31
                Tashidingka
DAGANA          Drujeygang-Balung     4,008            22       2.5           113,182       621
PEMAGTSE        Khar-Tsebar- Yurung   4,895            29       3.3           113,793       674
L
Total/Average                         12,187           65       7.8           120,167       638

Table 4. Cost Effectiveness Analysis of the Newly Constructed Roads
                                                                                                  Investment
                                      Total                                       Investment
                                                                  Estimated                       per
                                      Beneficiaries    Length                     per    km,
Dzongkhag        Road                                             cost                            beneficiary
                                      (residents       (km)                       US$    per
                                                                  (US$million)                    US$      per
                                      +10% visitors)                              km
                                                                                                  person
                 Jangchucholing-
WANGDUE                               1,365            11.83      1,656,682       140,041         1,213
                 Tashidingka
DAGANA           Drujeygang-Balung    4,114            26.10      3,186,392       122,084         774
                 Khar-Tsebar-
PEMAGTSEL                             4,834            29.01      4,041,495       139,314         836
                 Yurung
Total/Average                         10,313           66.94      8,884,569       132,724         861


Further investigation of the Jangchucholing - Tashidingka road indicates that it is classed
as a Priority B in the RSMP and as such should not have been selected for improvement
by RAP - II. Indeed, the Appraisal indicates that its inclusion in RAP - II should be
confirmed by the baseline socio economic study (Table 1 of the Appraisal Report). There
is no evidence that this confirmation was undertaken and it is likely that the inclusion of
the Jangchucholing - Tashidingka road represents a planning failure and a misallocation
of scarce investment resources in economic terms.
C The Development Impact of the Completed Roads
This section addresses the achievement of the RAP - II Development Objective and
Outcome Indicators.
Development Objective: Improved Transport Services
The Development Objective of RAP - II of improved rural transport infrastructure has
been achieved. Moreover, this achievement is being sustained by the active maintenance
inputs of the DOR Regional Office, as observed during the site visit.
What is less clear is the evidence for improved transport services since neither the project,
nor the socio economic monitoring consultants, appear to have collected traffic data that
might confirm the anticipated improvement in transport services. The latter normally
involves increases in speed, reliability and safety along with reductions in the cost of
travel and transport, as human and animal porterage is replaced by motorized transport
modes.
The low rural population densities that characterize Bhutan means that there is limited
demand for regular transport services. It is therefore not surprising that the 2011 Annual
Report of the Bhutan Road Safety and Transport Authority indicates that no transport
operators have registered with the project Dzongkhag authorities to deliver regular
transport services along the new roads.



                                               32
Nevertheless, a moving observer traffic count undertaken during the site visit suggests
that some 3 to 4 6 motorized vehicles per hour are using the improved Drujeygang -
Balung road. The majority of these vehicles were privately owned, with some 30 to 40
vehicles reportedly purchased by the residents of Tshangkha since the road was
completed in 2011. Half of these vehicles were motorcycles but a significant number of
households had bought pickups and small mini buses. None of these vehicles were said to
provide a regular transport service and most were used on an ad hoc basis as personal
transport. In addition, vehicles were being hired out to neighbors and friends for the
transport of goods and produce, as well as travel outside the gewong.
Outcome Indicator 1: Changes in Travel Time.
The MTR recommended the use of two travel time indicators:-
      a) The first was a 50% reduction in the travel time taken for beneficiaries to walk to
         key economic and social centers in the nearest town;
      b) The second was to improve the access of 60% of project beneficiaries so that they
         were within 30 minutes (i.e. 2 kms) walking distance of an all-season road.
The Final Socio Economic Impact Monitoring Study addressed these indicators and
Section 5.8 of its Report states that there had been a 78% reduction in travel time spent
walking to key economic and social facilities, with some 80% of beneficiaries are now
living within 30 minutes walking time of the completed road. These statements are not
well supported by survey data, which necessitated the reworking of the raw data. Table 5
summarizes this reworked data in a before and after road improvement format that might
have been adopted by the monitoring consultants.
Table 5. Hours Spent Walking to Socio Economic Facilities and the Road Head
Before and After Road Construction
Dzongkhag      Road              Average Travel Time to          Average Travel Time to     MTR -    Final -
                                 Facilities (Hours) Before and   Road Head (Hours) Before   Before   After
                                 After Road Improvement          and     After      Road
                                                                 Improvement
                                 Before   After        %         Before   After   %         %<30     %<30
                                                       Change                     Change    mins     mins
WANGDU         Jangchucholing-   3.90     1.26         68%       2.77     0.58    79%       33%      67%
E              Tashidingka

DAGANA         Drujeygang-       3.26     1.18         64%       1.03     0.69    33%       29%      57%
               Balung
PEMAGTS        Khar-Tsebar-      1.58     1.02         35%       0.69     0.29    58%       67%      67%
EL             Yurung

Overall Average                  3.05     1.17         62%       1.23     0.56    55%       38%      62%




6
    This suggests that some 40 to 50 motorised vehicles are using this road on a daily basis.



                                                  33
Source: Data from the Project Mid-Term and Final Socio Economic Monitoring Reports is used to
represent before and after travel time data.
The above averages are based on time values taken for each surveyed settlement or
village (rather than households) and there are a number of unexplained anomalies in the
data e.g. travel times increase for some villages on the Khar-Tsebar-Yurung road.
Nevertheless, the table does suggest that both indicators have been achieved i.e. there has
been a 62% reduction in travel time to socio economic facilities and some 62% of
communities are now within 30 minutes walking distance of an all season road7.
Outcome Indicator 2: Changes in Transportation Costs.
The Appraisal Report indicated that road improvements would bring about a reduction in
transportation costs, which in turn would have a direct bearing on the price of
commodities bought and sold in the beneficiary communities. Unfortunately, the Mid
Term Review recommended that this indicator should be dropped from the socio
economic monitoring of the project outcomes. Nevertheless, the site visit confirmed that
beneficiaries along the Drujeygang-Balung road had seen significant shift from the use of
mules and head loading to motorized transport, mainly in the form of single and double
cabin pickups capable of carrying up two and one tonne loads respectively. The transport
costs have increased considerable since the baseline survey but are significantly less that
the baseline cost of using pack animals8 (Table 6).
Table 6. Transportation Costs
Gewog                               Transport cost/km/kg, Nu
                                    Mule                                     Truck
Tsangkah (Baseline Survey)          0.28                                     0.006
Tsangkah (Completion)               Rarely used                              0.035
Source: Kyingkhor Consultancy Services, RAP – II Baseline Survey, May 2006. Site visit November 2012

Outcome Indicator 3: Changes in Beneficiary Satisfaction.
A road user satisfaction survey was undertaken by the socio economic monitoring
consultants at the mid-term and completion stage of the project roads. It is not clear if the
two studies adopted a similar methodology to identify and sample road users but both
reports signify very high levels of user satisfaction i.e. 91% of those interviewed at the
mid-term stage were satisfied with the road and this increased to 93% at the completion
stage. In both surveys, some 80% of respondents recognized the reductions in travel time
brought about by the improved roads, with 45% reporting a substantial reduction in travel
time. Similarly, some 85% of road users rated improved safety as the most important
benefit brought about by the improved road.



7
 These averages are crude averages and are not weighted by village populations.
Similarly, there is no guarantee that the village centre on one survey matches that of the
second.
8
    It was not possible to get reliable pack animal transport costs during the site visit.



                                                   34
Outcome Indicator 4: Changes in the Price of Commodities.
The findings of the RAP - I socio-economic impact study suggested that one of benefits
of road improvements was a reduction in the prices charged for common consumables in
beneficiary villages so that they cost only 10% more than in adjacent towns.
Unfortunately, the Mid Term Review recommended that this indicator should be dropped
from the socio economic monitoring of the project outcomes. The site visit confirmed
that the RAP - II roads had a similar effect of narrowing price differentials for common
commodities (Table 7).
Table 7. Price of Commodities in Drujigang
           Commodities    Unit    Price in    Price in      Difference   % Change
                                  Town        Village       in
                                  (Sunkosh)   (Tshangkha)   Price
           Rice           Kg      22          22            0            0%
           Cooking oil    Litre   95          100           5            5%
           Sugar           Kg     45          50            5            11%
           Salt            Kg     10          12            2            20%
           Tea leaves      Kg     240         250           10           4%
           Dry chilli      Kg     135         150           15           11%
           Green chilli   Kg      50          80            30           60%
           Soap            Kg     10          15            5            50%
           Torch cell     Pairs   17.5        17.5          0            0%
           Noodles        piece   12          15            3            25%
           Potato         Kg      30          25            -5           -17%
           Overall                666.5       736.5         70           11%
Source: Site visit 2012
The site visit also afforded an opportunity to assess the impact of road improvements on
the production and marketing of cash crops, notably oranges in Tshankha Gewog in
Dagana. It is reported by key informants that the price that farmers received in the last
season had exceeded all expectations and was approximately 30 Nu per kilogram or 5 Nu
per piece, some ten times the price reported in the Appraisal Document. More
importantly, the method of marketing oranges had changed. Traders have started to use
the improved roads to gain access to farmers who prefer to sell at the “farm gate?. This
preferred method of marketing passes the risk of harvesting, transport and crop disposal
onto the trader, who negotiates the purchase of a crop as it stands in the field or orchard.
Farmers were also reported to be ensuring that they were able to negotiate a “fair? price
for their crop by using mobile phones to ascertain buying and selling prices in nearby
border towns. Mobile phone use was also reported for those producing perishables like
butter and cheese. These producers would only prepare their butter and cheese in
response to a firm order at an agreed price from a nearby trader in an adjacent town. They
would then arrange with a transporter to carry the produce to the buyer on an agreed date.
It was also reported that farmers were increasing the production of these cash crops in
response to these marketing opportunities. It was estimated that the acreage under orange
trees had increased by about 10% since the completion of the road and land prices had
increased in response to this commercialization process.
D Lessons Learned




                                              35
There are a number of lessons learned from this economic and financial analysis of RAP
- II.

Poor Coordination between Project and National Planning
Feeder road construction in Bhutan is challenging because of low population densities
and mountainous terrain. This means that construction costs are high and economic
benefits are low, . This undermines the application of conventional cost benefit analysis,
which focuses on the savings accruing to the vehicles using the roads, or the effects of
transport cost reductions on agricultural producers living along the road. The use of cost
effectiveness as a road planning tool is therefore a pragmatic and acceptable criteria for
ranking or prioritizing roads. The Road Sector Master Plan has applied this prioritization
procedure across the country and the Jangchucholing – Chubar chorten road is clearly
classed as a Priority B feeder road in this document. This seems to have been overlooked
by project management since it has included the Jangchucholing- Tashidingka section of
this Priority B road in the implementation program.

The Need for Consistent and Project-Focused Socio Economic Monitoring
The Socio Economic Monitoring program has involved three surveys at the base line,
mid-term and completion stage of the project. Three different sets of consultants have
been procured to provide these services. This has not only increased the management
burden of the project but undermined the validity and reliability of the surveys and the
comparability of their findings. There is some evidence that the survey instruments have
been adjusted and changed e.g. the base line survey assessed the time taken to seven
socio economic facilities and failed to assess the time taken to access the nearest all
season road. The mid-term and final surveys increased the number of socio economic
facilities to eleven and added an estimate of the time taken to walk to the nearest all
weather road from the centre of the village, presumably in response to the
recommendations of the MTR.

Similarly, as Table 8 shows the sample sizes collected along each road have varied
between the surveys, with each survey drawing on a different subset of households, with
varying degrees of overlap. Finally, it is not even clear if the surveys were done at the
same time of the year.

Table 8. Distribution of Household Samples by roads
Name of Road        No of Villages      No             of    No of surveyed households
                                        Households           Baseline Survey Mid-term            Final Survey
                                                                               Survey
Jangchucholing-     12                  178                  58                37                38
Tashidingkha
(JT) Road
Drujeygang-         23                  630                  43                 158              160
Balung (Lajab)
(DB) Road
Khothakpa-Khar-     7                   971                  77                 118              122
Tsebar-Yurung
(KKTY) Road
                     42                 1779              178                   313              320
Source: Final Report on Socio?economic Impact Monitoring Survey, RAP ? II, Bhutan, April 2010 




                                                        36
This variability and the propensity of the consultants to collect a considerable volume of
data without assessing its relevance and value to the monitoring of the development
objective and outcomes does little to support the confidence of DOR planners and
engineers in the value and purpose of such an exercise.




                                           37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
Names                        Title                              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Sita Ramakrishna Addepalli   Environmental Specialist           SASDI
Debabrata Chakraborti        Senior Procurement Specialist      SARPS
Samantha L. Forusz           Program Manager                    HRSAN
Drona Raj Ghimire            Environmental Specialist           SASDI
Parthapriya Ghosh            Social Development Specialist      SASDS
Surendra Govinda Joshi       Sr Transport. Specialist           SASDT
Manvinder Mamak              Sr Financial Management Specia     SARFM
Ishwor Neupane               Consultant                         SASDE
Comfort Onyeje Olatunji      Program Assistant                  SASDO
Rajesh Rohatgi               Sr Transport. Specialist           SASDT
Kumaraswamy
                             Procurement Specialist             SARPS
Sankaravadivelu
Natalya Stankevich           Transport Specialist               ECSS5


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                              2.08                     8.21
  FY07                                             29.80                   109.04
  FY08                                                                       0.00
Total:                                                                     117.25

Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       8.32
  FY08                                             21.80                    81.79
  FY 09                                            25.82                    80.71
  FY 10                                            17.04                   100.50
  FY 11                                            10.45                    41.60
  FY 12                                             8.43                    48.55
  FY 13                                             5.07                    47.18
Total:                                                                     408.65




                                              38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT MONITORING STUDY: MID-TERM-2010



Background and objectives

Under the Rural Access Project II supported by the World Bank, the Department of
Roads is constructing feeder roads in Wangdue (Jangchubcholing-Tashidingkha), Dagana
(Drujeygang-Balung) and Pema Gatshel (Khotakpa-Khar-Tsebar-Yurung).. In 2007 and
2008, socio-economic baseline surveys were conducted to establish the socio-economic
situation prevailing then. To assess socio-economic impacts it is imperative to
periodically monitor the baseline. The objective of the survey is: To assess the magnitude
and distribution of the direct and indirect socio-economic benefits of rural access
improvement and determination of extent to which intervention under RAP II have
caused changes in the livelihood of targeted beneficiaries.

Methodology

For the monitoring study the sample survey method using structured questionnaires was
used to gather data from sampled households in the study area. The frame from which the
sample was derived consisted of total households in the villages benefiting from the roads.
For this survey, data was collected from 313 households which is an increase by 57%
above the baseline survey and more or less sample size as the first monitoring survey.
About 30% of the respondents from the first monitoring survey were re-visited and the
balance respondents were randomly selected. The unit of analysis for the survey is the
household but details were provided by a knowledgeable adult member of the household.
Data collection was done by a team of enumerators under supervision. Enumerators were
trained on interview techniques and survey methods prior to the field work.

Findings

Demography
The survey revealed that there were 875 (51%) males and 855 (49%) females living in
the sample households. By age, the largest group (55%) were between 18 and 56 years
followed by minors (32%) aged between 17 and less. Elderly (57 years and above)
comprised 13%. In comparison, the baseline had 32% males and 68% females in the
population inhabiting the sample households that were interviewed.

Agriculture and livestock
People owned land for farming mainly cereal crops like paddy, maize, wheat, buckwheat,
millet. Fruits and vegetables were also grown mainly of the local varieties. Most of what
was produced was consumed at the households. Cereal production was not sufficient to
last the whole year. Important cash crops grown are potato, oranges and vegetables.


                                           39
Livestock is an important component of people’s livelihoods. Cattle, horses, sheep, pigs
and poultry were raised for dairy produce and meat. Dairy produce was also sold.

Present access to services and facilities
The present access to services and facilities is not that different from the Phase I surveys
since the 2 surveys are being conducted within a span of 6 months only so not much
extension of the road network has occurred which has impacted travel distances.
However, as compared to the baseline survey, now 47% of the beneficiaries can access an
all-season road within 2 km or 30 min walking distance.

Income and expenditure
People’s primary source of income is from sale of agriculture and livestock produce
mainly cash crops like potato and oranges and chili. People also get cash through
remittances. Expenditure is heavy on food, clothing, education of children and on house
renovation and performing of religious ceremonies. As compared to the baseline, it is
noted that income earned from agriculture produce, livestock products, sale of animals,
weaving and remittances has increased between 34% to as high as 266%. However,
income from manual transportation, mule hire, casual labour, carpentry and business has
declined to 8% and a maximum of 86% as compared to the baseline figure.

Prices of commodities
Prices of commodities largely seem to have been the same as compared to that revealed
in the Phase I surveys. People in fact spend more now transporting from the market to the
road head spending for vehicular carriage costs of goods. As compared to the baseline,
price of commodities has increased between 9% to as high as 142% for some
commodities. This rise can be attributed, among others, to inflation especially of food
items in the last few years.

Transportation
The roads are in use up to the sections that are complete. Taxis, trucks are already plying
on the roads but traffic is said to be still low. The time for reaching destinations and for
transportation has been cut down and in that context if time savings are valuated then
there is substantial gain in that people save money or could earn money using time saved.

Local economy
In terms of local economy, quality of housing seems to be a relative term because
housing is largely determined by cultural practice of living as well as climatic conditions
and availability of housing materials. Off-farm employment opportunities in Dagana are
more than the other districts. However, the wage rates earned by men and women are
unequal. Participation in road work among the people in Dagana was the most as
compared to the other districts. As compared to the baseline there is a decline in casual
labour opportunities (by 8%) implying less off-farm employment opportunities available.

The wage rates for labour between males and females differed in that men were paid
more for strenuous activities such transportation (Nu. 170 to Nu. 300 per day whereas



                                            40
women were paid a maximum of Nu. 150/day)) and skilled labour (Nu. 200 to Nu. 400
per day whereas women were paid Nu. 200 per day). In the baseline survey, only 25
households reported working on the road, whereas in the monitoring survey, 47
households worked on the road which is an increase by 88%.

During the baseline survey land prices ranged from Nu. 1000 a decimal to a maximum of
Nu. 3,000 a decimal. Whereas, during the socio-economic survey, the land prices were
noted to have increased manifold. The minimum price per decimal in areas along the JT
road was Nu. 1,500 a decimal while land prices had also reached Nu. 8,500 a decimal on
the same road. The median price at the point of the baseline survey taking prices on all
the roads was Nu. 2,000 and recently the median price increased to Nu. 7500 - an
increase by 275%.

Vulnerability
Thirteen percent of the respondents have up to an acre of land most of who are from the
KKTY Road. More than 80% of farmers in all the roads face seasonal food shortages and
resort to buying rice while all farmers on the KKTY Road buy rice. In comparison, the
baseline survey data shows that all households interviewed from the DB Road and the
KKTY Road bought rice while 71% on the JT Road bought rice. The data shows some
improvement in the food security on the DB road since 91% bought rice as ascertained in
the monitoring survey. However, on the JT Road, it is noted that now 81% bought rice as
compared to 71% before. Only three percent of the surveyed household population has
some form of disability. The baseline survey did not report on disability of surveyed
populations.

Conclusions

It may be noted, for the indicator on reduction of travel time, the end-of-project target is
50% and by the mid-term point of the project it has reached 19%. There seems time in the
second half of the project and opportunity through further extension and completion of
the road to achieve the target. The indicator on road user satisfaction is already achieved
to a large extent since by the mid period of the project, 91% of the sample respondents
were satisfied with the roads.
The project outputs namely the roads are having effects which are manifested already.
some of these are an increase in incomes from most sources and decrease in those for
which the road has substituted for travel and carriage such as from porters and horses. a
moderate improvement in the local economy is evidenced by increase in land prices and
rise in capital investments. impacts on diversification in occupations, increase in literacy,
reduction in diseases is yet to be seen. challenges of benefits of the road trickling down to
the poorest sections remain. ensuing development programmes like electrification and
drinking water supply reaching the villages is observed but whether these are a
consequence of roads access cannot be categorically said but it would be fair to say that
roads have contributed in some way.




                                             41
B. SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT MONITORING STUDY: END OF THE PROJECT- 2012



The DOR appointed consultants to carry out the Final Socio-economic impact monitoring
and road user satisfaction study for the Bhutan Second Rural Access Project in 2011. The
overall objective of the study is to assess the magnitude and distribution of the direct and
indirect socio-economic benefits of rural access improvement and determination of the
user satisfaction with the roads constructed.

Methodology
The methodology adopted is similar to the baseline and midterm surveys already
conducted for the project. It comprised a set of structured and non-structured interviews.
The methodology included Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) exercises, interviews
with roadside communities and group discussions with different economic and social
groups. A semi-structured questionnaire was used to carry out the individual and group
household interviews. Discussions were also held with officials of the project contractor
(in KKTY road where the work was ongoing), project management staff, officials of the
Dzongkhag Administration and Gewog officials. For the socio-economic impact
monitoring study, the samples covered in the final survey are 320 compared to 178 in the
baseline, 312 in the phase I and 313 in the Phase II in the midterm survey. In order to
keep the results of the earlier surveys comparable to the final survey, the final survey
covered the same villages that were covered in the earlier surveys. Stratified random
sampling method was adopted to select the individual households. The repeat coverage of
the respondents in the final survey as in the midterm survey is to the tune of 34.4%. For
the Road User Satisfaction Study (RUSS) the consultants used both quantitative and
qualitative methods of enquiry. Focus group discussions and individual interviews were
held with various government officials including officials of DOR at the head quarter and
project sites, Dzongkhag and Gewog administration officials, drivers of taxis, trucks,
private vehicles in the Dzongkhag as well as satellite towns viz. Nobding, Drujeygang,
Khotakpa and Nangkor. The total number of samples covered in the final survey is 360
compared to 352 respondents during the baseline and 324 during the midterm survey.

Project Development Objectives and Achievement
The project development objective was for the residents of beneficiary Dzongkhags to
utilize improved rural transport infrastructure and services. The two specific outcome
indicators as identified in the project document for monitoring and evaluation were i)
travel time by targeted beneficiaries to economic and social centers will be reduced by 50
percent and ii) overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved delivery of road
infrastructure.

The survey findings showed that the project has fulfilled its objective of reducing travel
time by more than 50%. The achievement in reduction of travel time to reach the service
centres has been to the tune of 78% overall. In terms of average walking time to reach the
project roads, the target of 30 minutes has also been met in case of all the 3 project roads.
The emergence of the new roads almost made the animal based transportation system



                                             42
redundant and people dependent on transportation through hiring of animals suffered
major setback in their income. However, with passage of time taxis and other commercial
vehicles have started to ply on these roads providing transport based alternate sources of
income to the communities and a turnaround in the earnings from transport sector has
been observed in the Final Survey results. Land prices along the roads have escalated
taking advantage of the improved accessibility.

As there was practically no road for meeting emergency travel needs before the project,
the satisfaction levels of the users are very high going about 90% in case all the 3 roads.
Overall 93% respondents opined that they are either highly satisfied or somewhat
satisfied with the project roads and their present condition.

FINDINGS OF ROAD USER SATISFACTION SURVEY

Respondent Profile
The profile of the respondents based on the various socioeconomic parameters such as
sex, age group, education levels, occupational status, category of employment, source of
income and expenditure etc, has been presented in this section. The profile of the
respondents was required to link it with the output of the road user survey as well as to
act as a benchmark. The analysis has been presented in a manner to make the findings
comparable with the midterm survey findings and for comparison with any future survey
findings.

The first and second phases of the midterm survey covered 352 and 324 HH
representatives respectively. The coverage in both the phases of the midterm survey
covered a good mixture of males and females from the 3 project roads. In the final survey
the distribution of samples among the 3 project roads were kept close to the same level as
in the midterm survey viz. 12% in JT road, 52% in DB road and 36% in KKTY road. The
sample distribution has been carefully decided depending on the number of villages
benefitting from the road as well as the size of the villages. Compared to the midterm
survey sample coverage, the final survey covered various types of road users like drivers
of all types of vehicles, students, shop keepers, farmers, government officials, employees
etc. Care was also placed in selecting a healthy distribution of male and female
respondents. Of the total respondents, 59% were males while the rest 41% comprised
females.

The profile of the respondents by various age categories shows that majority of the
respondents were in the productive age group between 18 to 60 years.

Education Level
The education levels of the respondents reveal that 44% respondents were illiterates,
while 19% were educated up to primary school level followed by 10% up to MSS level.

Occupational Structure
Farmers comprised the most of the respondents accounting to about 81% followed by the
students (6%), people with own business (5%) and civil services (4%) in the order.



                                            43
Respondents belonging to other types of occupation formed about 1% in each of the other
categories.
By category of employment, self employed formed the largest group mainly being
employed in their own farms. Many family members belonging to both the sexes are
reported as unpaid family workers as they work in their own houses and do not get paid
for doing their own family’s work.

Income
With about 81% respondents being engaged in farming activities, most of the income
earned is derived from the agriculture and allied activities. Income from sale of
agricultural products and livestock rank the top two contributors to income. Among the 3
project roads the main agricultural crop varies widely. The main agricultural products
sold from the benefitted area around JT road are Chilli and Potato while DB road
flourishes with Oranges, Cardamom and Vegetables. Income in the KKTY influence area
is mostly through remittances, off farm labour, carpentry and weaving. Income earned
from horse/pony hire and portering is much less compared to the major sources of income
like agricultural and livestock products.

Expenditure
In terms of expenditure, the maximum is spent on food by the respondents in case of all
the 3 roads. As the expenditure is more in procuring food grains, the roads play a crucial
role in facilitating movement of people to the nearby market places and transportation of
the items procured to their house. Besides the food grains, other important food items
purchased from the market are salt, sugar and oil etc.

Other notable heads of expenditure are education, clothing, religious ceremonies and
social occasions. Children’s education is accorded priority in Bhutan where qualifying for
government colleges after the basic education (education up to class X is free in Bhutan)
is much cherished. In DB road expenditure on house renovation forms a sizable
component among the expenditure heads. This could be seen while travelling on DB
road. Newly constructed houses/renovated houses, wood depots, storage of construction
materials on the road shoulder is distinctly visible while travelling on this road.

Travel Purpose
In terms of the purpose of travel, the prime reason was for business, official purposes,
marketing of agricultural products and for shopping. The modal value of frequency in
travelling was in the range of 1 to 3 times in a month. The number of respondents making
8 to 10 trip and more than 10 trips in a month substantially increased between the
midterm survey and the Final survey indicating a higher use rate by the respondents as
the roads have opened up the much sought after service centres (health, education,
communication, shopping, social occasions etc.)

Among the 3 project roads, higher frequency of movement compared to the midterm
survey was noticed uniformly for the purpose of marketing of agricultural products,
shopping, education and health. Unlike the earlier surveys, there was no respondent who




                                           44
had not used the road for some purpose indicating the increased role of the roads in the
respondents work activities.

Road Condition and Impact
The opinion of the road users were sought to assess whether the road condition has
improved. The responses showed that about 56% opined substantial improvement in the
road condition. About 41% responded that the road condition improved marginally, thus
the combined overall responses towards improvement in road conditions stood at 97%
compared to a level of 81% during the midterm survey. The response was highest (98%)
in KKTY road where the works were nearing completion and the users were very
receptive of the improved road conditions. In JT road the responses towards improved
road conditions although stood at 89%, it still remained the lowest among the 3 roads.
This could be attributed to the continuing maintenance works in the road after the rains.

With regards to reduction in travel time, about 45% responded that the travel time has
substantially reduced. This is higher compared to 40% response for the same during the
midterm survey. KKTY road showed a turnaround with substantial reduction in travel
time (34 % in midterm to 45% in the Final survey) as the road works are nearing
completion. Overall the response for reduction in travel time (both substantial as well as
marginal reduction taken together) was to tune of 88% compared to 84% during the
midterm survey.

About 8% respondents opined that there has been substantial decrease in the fuel cost,
KKTY reporting the highest percentage of 11% among the 3 roads. Overall the response
towards decrease in fuel cost was to the tune of 16% compared to 5% at the time of
midterm survey. Overall 5% reported that the fuel cost has remained the same; JT road
reporting the highest of 14% under this category. This may be because JT road was the
first to be opened for public and the relatively longer period of use of this road gave a
feeling of no change to the road users.

Majority of the respondents are the household respondents who are generally the
passengers. Vehicle ownership is still at a very low percentage as there were only small
lengths of maintenance roads, thus limiting the scope for vehicular travel. Thus the
response to reduction on maintenance cost of the vehicles had a large segment of not
applicable respondents. Overall about 8% responded decrease in maintenance cost of
vehicles compared to a level of 2% during the midterm survey under this category.

The project roads form one of the basic needs for their influence area and their lifeline for
communication. As there was practically no road for meeting emergency travel needs, the
satisfaction levels of the users are very high going about 90% in case all the 3 roads.
Overall 93% respondents opined that they are either highly satisfied or somewhat
satisfied with the project roads and their present condition.

Comfort and Convenience




                                             45
The perceptions of the road users on congestion were assessed with their views on road
width. presents that about 80% respondents felt that the width of the roads are adequate
and they are free from congestion.

Road safety is one of the prime concerns especially in the rural areas where many of the
road users are not accustomed with the vehicular transport. Road signs are installed for
cautioning road users that work is in progress and such notices/signages ensure least
disruption to work due to conflict with the road users. About 94% of the respondents
observed the signs put up by the contractors during the road construction work. KKTY
road where the works are in progress reported maximum observation of these signages by
the road users (99%).

While 9% respondents opined the road surface quality as poor, majority (86%) reported it
to be either good or very good. The midterm survey had responses to the tune of 78%
terming the road surfaces to be good. The recently constructed KKTY road where the
road works are nearing completion, received a response level of about 93% reporting that
the road surface is good.

The reduction in travel time to reach destination was assessed with the road surface
quality. The data reveals that over two third respondents (72.7%) mentioned reduction in
travel time due to good road surface quality. About 25% respondents mentioned that
travel time remained the same. Around 15 % responded that the travel time has remained
the same although the road surface quality has become good.

The analysis carried out to relate the effect of quality of road surface with convenience to
access settlements shows that majority respondents in all the 3 roads feel that quality of
road surface has a major role to play in creating convenient access to settlements. The
response on quality of road surface to be very good / good was 86% during the final
survey compared to 78% during the midterm survey.

In terms of the levels of satisfaction with regards to the quality of structures built about
87% were satisfied with the structures. Out of these respondents 39% respondents were
highly satisfied with the structures. Generally in the remote areas in Bhutan RCC bridges
are rare and provision of such permanent RCC structures for cross drainage work and for
erosion protection yields a much better satisfaction level of the respondents.

Around 86% of the respondents mentioned of not facing any delays while travelling on
the project roads. Among those who experienced some delay, the duration of the delay
was between 1 to 30 minutes. The delay was primarily due to the road maintenance
works and also due to some narrow stretches through which only one vehicle could pass.
In such cases, the vehicles had to wait while the traffic from one direction gets cleared so
that the traffic from the other direction can use the road for crossing the narrow stretch.
Other reasons for delay comprised disturbances from cattle and ‘uncompromising
drivers’.




                                            46
The effect on travel time to destination was assessed by the management of the
maintenance staff in time taken to clean up the accidents on the road. Among the
respondents who were aware of the occurrence of accidents on the roads 47% responded
that the maintenance staff has been good in managing the accidents and thereby the travel
time to destinations have reduced. Interactions with the respondents revealed that not
many accidents have happened on the project roads; the few that happened have been
managed well by the maintenance staff.

Like the midterm survey, the reasons that caused irritation to the road users were air and
noise pollution, bad roads (pot hole, rough road), disturbance by cattle, beaming
headlights of other vehicles and bad driving by others. The works on KKTY is still going
on and irritation by air/noise pollution is unavoidable. Similarly settlements being located
along the roads, disturbances by cattle are frequent. Bad driving by others is an area of
irritation that needs attention of the authorities. Other reasons like wrong/illegal parking,
close proximity of shops, volume of traffic and congestion are not very pronounced.

Road Safety
Respondents’ opinion on safety while using these roads was accessed. About 85% of the
road users felt safe while using the roads. This was slightly better than the midterm
survey where similar opinion was obtained from about 83% users.
In total 24 respondents observed road accidents on the project roads. Some of the main
causes of the accidents cited are bad geometry, reckless driving, bad weather and
mechanical failure.

Like the midterm survey, respondents were canvassed to rank the roads on 4 thematic
areas like value for money, comfort and convenience, safety on the road and travel
amenities. They were requested to rank these parameters on a scale of 4 points with 1
being “most important’, 2 being quite important, 3 being not so important and 4 being not
important. The connotations were as under:
     Value for money : savings in fuel consumption, vehicle maintenance cost, tyres
     Comfort and convenience : conditions of the road, riding quality and free from
        congestions.
     Safety : safety from sliding, instances of signage along the road
     Travel amenities : Provision of food, water, toilet, rest rooms and restaurant

The ranking of these themes by the road uses reveal that ‘value for money’ was ranked 2
(quite important) by about 34% respondents while 43% rated it as 3 (not so important).
‘Comfort and Convenience? got a rating of 2 (quite important) by about 56% respondents
while 23% rated it as 3 (not so important). Safety on road got a rating of 1 (most
important) by about 73% respondents while 23% rated it as 2 (quite important). Travel
amenities were ranked as 3 (not so important) by 28% respondents while 56% ranked it
as 4 (not important). The findings indicate that the road users place very high importance
on road safety aspects followed by comfort and convenience. Travel amenities have not
received a higher rank by the users as the feeder roads are shorter in length compared to
the highways and are covered in a relatively shorter time. The findings are similar to the
baseline and the midterm survey.


                                             47
Department of Roads (DOR) and Rating of DOR Activities

Information sign boards during work in progress and radio formed the basis of knowing
about the Department of Roads to the road users. Other lesser means to get knowledge
about the DOR and its activities were the television, newspaper and magazines.
However, during interaction with the road users it was revealed that the main source of
knowledge about the DOR activities in their area is through the Gewog officials and hear
say from friends and relatives who knew about the DOR and their road construction
proposal. These were also the mode of knowing about the DOR and gathering knowledge
about its activities during the baseline and the midterm survey.

Regarding users views about the services provided by DOR, reveals that about 93% users
rated that DOR has been highly/moderately successful in providing good feeder roads.
This is a marginal improvement compared to the response level of 92% for the same
during the midterm survey. Regarding the speed and efficiency of the DOR in performing
the works, about 71% respondents opined that DOR has been successful in doing the
works with speed and efficiency. About 30% respondents rated DOR was moderately
successful in doing the works with speed and efficiency. In terms of constructing and
maintaining the roads about 77% opined that DOR has been successful in its endeavour
to construct and maintain the feeder roads. About 43% rated DOR as ‘highly successful’
in this aspect.

Only 34 respondents forming around 9% of the total respondents said that they have
complained for any road related problems. Of these 34 respondents, 11 (32%) were
satisfied with the manner in which the complaints were redressed. However, 19 (55%)
were somewhat dissatisfied with the time within which the complaints were redressed.
Almost all these somewhat dissatisfied complainants belonged to JT and DB road where
maintenance works were going on.

Discussions with some of the key informants revealed the need for quicker response time
from DOR in completing the maintenance works.

Similar to the findings in Table 6.27, reveals that about 33% complainants were satisfied
with the manner in which the complaints were redressed. However, 56% were somewhat
dissatisfied with the time within which the complaints were redressed. Almost all these
somewhat dissatisfied complainants belonged to JT and DB road where maintenance
works were going on.

Overall about 50% respondents were satisfied with the maintenance works and the
response time of DOR in doing the maintenance works. However DOR has to give more
attention to this aspect as revealed during the discussions with key informants.
Respondents were also asked about their views on specified aspects of the road
construction where DOR should pay more attention. Specific areas of focus were in
provision of wider roads, widening/improving of curves, providing wayside facilities,
tougher road traffic enforcement, provision of more informatory/warning signs,
Improvement of road gradient and improved road riding quality.



                                           48
Users desire DOR to focus more in providing wider roads (77%), widening and
improving curves (70%), providing more informatory/warning signs (65%), tougher road
traffic enforcement (64%), improve road gradient (58%) , better road riding quality
(55%) and more wayside amenities (28%) in the order of preference. This does not imply
that the other aspects were not important to the road users.

The findings of the final survey are comparable to the baseline and the midterm survey
where it was suggested that road riding quality, improving on road gradient, widening of
curves featured as the main suggestions.

Road users were also asked whether local communities could take up the maintenance
work in case there are sufficient people to do so. Of the 58 respondents that said
communities should take up this work, 69% indicated there are enough people in the
villages to do so. The findings suggest that 82% respondents are of the view that local
communities cannot take up the work of road maintenance.

Discussions were held with officials of Dzongkhag administrations in the project road
areas and their opinions were sought specifically on the World Bank funded project roads
vis-a-vis RGOB funded roads. Their suggestions were also sought for future road
development strategy.

Conclusion
Based on the findings some of the conclusions are under;
   In terms of the purpose of travel, the prime reason was for business, official purposes,
marketing of agricultural products and for shopping. The modal value of frequency in
travelling was in the range of 1 to 3 times in a month. The number of respondents making
8 to 10 trips and more than 10 trips in a month substantially increased between the
midterm survey and the Final survey indicating a higher use rate by the respondents as
the roads have opened up the much sought after service centres (health, education,
communication, shopping, social occasions etc.)

    With regards to reduction in travel time, respondents opined that that the travel time
has substantially reduced. KKTY road showed a turnaround with substantial reduction in
travel time as the road works are nearing completion. There has been a substantial
reduction in the fuel and maintenance cost for the vehicles, however, the cost of travel is
still quite high.

   The roads have less congestion as they have the required width and better carriageway.
There were adequate road signs in place in the completed roads as well as the road where
the works are going on. The roads were evaluated as good in terms of their surface
quality and overall safety. The users did not face long periods of delay while travelling on
these roads. Noise and dust pollution is a major reason of irritation while travelling on the
roads as the maintenance and construction works in one of the roads is still in progress.




                                             49
  Safety was expressed by the users as the most priority area for building better and safer
roads. Although there were not many accidents, bad driving by others, mechanical failure
and bad weather conditions were reported to be the reasons for the accidents.

   Roadside amenities have not been provided on the feeder roads. DOR has not provided
such facilities along the feeder roads as they are much shorter in length compared to
highways. Users also did not put a very high rank for their provision along the feeder
roads. However, a few shops have already come up along the completed roads.

   Users placed higher ranking to safety and comfort and convenience. With increased
flow of traffic and more movement of passengers other aspects like value for money and
amenities along the road will gather more priority by the users.

   Users have expressed overall satisfaction with DOR’s performance in providing the
feeder roads in time and with their efficiency in attending to the maintenance works
during the accidents. However, satisfactory redressal of complaints is one of the areas
where DOR should focus to improve in future.




                                            50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   51
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     Introduction

1.1     Background
Bhutan being landlocked with majority of people living on subsistence agriculture, there
is need for rural accessibility and roads are the main mode of transport. There is a huge
target for the road sector in the current 10th Five Year Plan (July 2008 - June 2013) under
the new Parliamentary Democratic Government. Due to needs of rural infrastructure and
the good results delivered by the Rural Access Project I (RAP I), the Royal Government
of Bhutan had requested for a follow-up project to continue supporting improvement of
rural accessibility using the EFRC construction methods. RAP II was aimed at helping
consolidate the institutional development initiatives started under RAP-I and enhance
capacity in Department of Roads (DOR). In March 2007, the World Bank has approved a
full grant of US$ 10 million towards the Rural Access Project II (RAP II), under the
DOR, Ministry of Works & Human Settlement (MoWHS).


1.2     Project Objectives
RAP II was designed to directly support the Ninth Five-Year Development Plan (2002-
2007, extended till June 2008), which include: (i) improving the quality of life and
income, especially of the poor; (ii) ensuring good governance, (iii) promoting private
sector growth and employment generation, (iv) preserving and promoting cultural
heritage and environmental conservation, and (v) achieving rapid economic growth and
transformation. These objectives are based on the concept of Gross National Happiness.
The RAP II was also expected to support the Tenth Five-Year Development Plan (July
2008 - June 2013).

The project was aligned with the World Bank’s CAS for Bhutan (2006-2009), by
(i) infrastructure expansion and access improvement through building new roads and
improving the condition of existing roads to connect remote rural communities to
economic and social services; (ii) promotion of private sector development through
outsourcing construction and maintenance contracts; and (iii) environmental conservation
through mainstreaming of EFRC methods.

The Project Development Objective is for residents of beneficiary Dzongkhags (Districts)
to utilize improved rural transport infrastructure and services. The target beneficiaries are
about 12,000 rural residents of Wangdue, Dagana, and Pemagatshel Dzongkhags, which
have the highest demand for access in Bhutan. The Dzongkhags and Geogs (Blocks) were
selected taking into account: (i) the development objectives set out in the Ninth Five-
Year Development Plan; (ii) the demand for access in the area and the road prioritization
as per the RGOB’s 20-year Road Master Plan; (iii) the exclusion of the selected Geogs
from projects supported by other donors; (iv) the cost-effectiveness of the individual
road; and (v) the detailed geotechnical survey of the individual roads.




                                             52
1.3     Project Development Objectives

The Project Development Objective will be monitored and evaluated by the following
outcome indicators:
   (i) Travel time by targeted beneficiaries to economic and social centers will be
           reduced by 50 percent;
   (ii) Transportation costs of commodities and supplies will be reduced by 50 percent in
           project areas;
   (iii)Overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved delivery of road
           infrastructure; and
   (iv) Basic commodity prices in project villages will be 10 percent lower than in
           unconnected villages as a result of newly constructed roads.

Monitoring of the IDA 14 Rural Access Indicator
As a result of the project, it is expected that 60 percent of the rural residents in the project
targeted geogs will live within 2 km or 30 minutes of walking distance to an all-season
road.

Project Restructuring
The project was restructured that dropped two outcome indicators serial nos. (ii)
Reduction of transportation cost and (iv) Reduction of basic commodity price as
recommended by the Mid Term Review (MTR), given that they were likely to be
influenced by external factors.

1.4     Financing of RAP II
Grant Amount:                                  US$ 10.27 million
Effectiveness of the grant:                    April 23, 2007
Expected closing date:                         October 10, 2012
Project Implementation period:                 April 10, 2007 – July 10, 2012
Recipient:                                     Bhutan/Department of Roads
Source of grant:                               IDA
Funds disbursed as of June 2012:               US$ 10.27M or Nu. 461.851 M (100%)
RGOB contribution to RAP II:                   Nu. 67.264M
Total Expenditure as of June 2012:             Nu. 529.115M

2.     Project Scope

2.1     Original Project Scope

The project will include the following components:

The Road Access Component (around US$ 8.69 million, excluding contingencies) will
include the following:



                                              53
(a)       Construction of new feeder roads of approximately 65 km length in total;
(b)       Upgrading of about 24 km of existing roads to all-season, feeder road standards;
(c)       Piloting low-cost sealing of feeder roads and performance based maintenance
          mechanisms using the NWF and/or community involvement or petty contracting;
          and
(d)       Construction/upgrading of 8 bridges with a total approximate length of 116
meters.

The Capacity Development and Implementation Support Component (US$0.67 million)
will comprise the following:
(a)    Human resource development and training;
(b)    Technical Assistance to pilot performance-based maintenance mechanisms;
(c)    Project implementation support for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in
       Thimphu and the three Project Management Units (PMUs) at project sites;
(d)    Socio-economic impact monitoring study; and
(e)    HIV/AIDS awareness of construction workers through the Nation-wide program
       run by the Ministry of Health.

2.2    Revised components of the project
During implementation the project components were revised as follows:

Road Access Component

Construction of new feeder roads of approximately 65 km length in total;

Table 1:  New Construction
 SN Name of Road                                       Assumed Actual           Remarks
                                                       length  length
 1    Jangchucholing-Tashidingkha-Chubar               13.7    11.83            Completed
      Chorten road, Wangdi
 2    Drujeygang-Balung road                           22          26.1         Completed
 3    Khotakpa-Khar-Tsebar-Yurung       road,          25          29.01        Completed
      Pemagatshel
 4    Laber-Khengzore road, Pemagatshel                4           8.5          Dropped
      Total:                                           64.7km      75.44km      66.94 km


(b)       Upgrading of about 24 km of existing roads to all-season, feeder road standards;

Table 2:  Road Improvement
 SN Name of Road                                     Assumed Actual             Remarks
                                                     length  length
 1    Jangchucholing-Tashidingkha              road, 6.34    6.34               Completed
      Wangdi
 2    Drujeygang-Balung road                           9           9            Completed


                                              54
 3    Khotakpa-Khar-Tsebar road, Pemagatshel       9        8               Completed
      Total:                                       24.34 km 23.34km


(c)    Piloting low-cost sealing of feeder roads and performance based maintenance;

i.      Piloting low-cost sealing
The first pilot otta seal works was carried out at Drametse, Mongar. The contract was
terminated on account of failure to bring the aggregates of the required specification by
the contractor. The pilot program could not be tested adequately, since the contract got
terminated and also due to the steep gradient of the Drametse road. Bajo-Shengana
Feeder Road (22 km, to be otta sealed 8.2km) was selected as an important road that links
the two Dzongkhags of Wangdue and Punakha. This road when improved would become
an important alternative route between these two Dzongkhag thereby reducing travel time
and distance.
Due to the higher amount of rectification and improvement works required, some costs
for improvement works was shared by the RGoB to maximize the use of the funds of
RAP II for the low cost sealing. The low cost sealing was piloted successfully on this
road.


ii.     Performance based maintenance mechanisms using the NWF and/or
        community involvement or petty contracting
Under the Road Access Component the project will support piloting routine road
maintenance activities through performance based maintenance schemes and also provide
technical assistance to this pilot program under the Capacity Development and
Implementation Support Component. The maintenance of the completed RAP-I roads will
be contracted out to National work force (NWF) on a long-term, performance basis where
community contracting is not feasible. The performance-based maintenance scheme was
to be implemented on RAP I roads of (a) Dakpai-Buli road, 36.57km, (b) Gomkara-
Tomzanhangtsen road, 12.45km, and (c)       Bartsam-Ramjar road, 7.45km.

The PBMS was initiated by the Department of Roads before the project appraisal, as a
pilot scheme that would enhance productivity of workforce, lessen the burden of the site
Engineers, maintain roads and highways cost effectively and naturally phase out
unproductive workforce. DOR had even tried this scheme on some roads upon the
approval of the Ministry.

However, during the World Bank’s 2nd supervision mission (Sept 29 – Oct 4, 2007), it
was agreed that a common document will be used both for DOR and on RAP I roads to
be funded through the project. The IDA had advised DOR to confirm that (i) the
proposed scheme complies with all relevant labour/employment acts in the country (ii)
Consultation with the NWF have been carried out, before the report can be finalized. The
legal comments were incorporated; however the result of the consultation was mixed.
While some NWF saw opportunities in the scheme, most of the NWF had preferred the
earlier wage system. The DOR is still continuing to test the scheme


                                           55
DOR on its own had initiated piloting the PBMS and was also piloting road maintenance
contracts. Although IDA provided some initial input to DOR, it was decided to drop this
activity during the restructuring as recommended by the MTR mission.


d.       Construction/upgrading of 8 bridges with a total approx length of 116 meters

Table 3:      Construction of bridges
 SN Name of Road/Bridges          Assumed Completed Remarks
 1    Jangchucholing-             5 nos   5          1.87km – 12m RCC
      Tashidingkha-Chubar                           6.55km – 12m RCC
      Chorten road, Wangdi                          6.72km – 80ft BB* 24.384m
                                                    10.7km – 10m RCC
                                                    17.7km – 12m RCC
                                                    Total 70.384m
 2    Drujeygang-Balung road      3 nos   1         4.4km – 8m RCC
                                                    4.7km and 5.7km – Replaced
                                                    with vented causeway
 3    Khotakpa-Khar-Tsebar-       1 nos   1         3.2km – 80ft BB*24.384m
      Yurung road, Pemagatshel
      Total:                      9 nos.  7 nos.    Total 102.768m
*BB – Bailey Bridge (Double Single)




3.       Achievements of Objectives and Outputs

3.1     Achievement by Output/Development Objectives
Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/result under the implementation as agreed in the
PAD would be undertaken in the project at the midterm and end of project. The project’s
outcome indicators: (a) travel time; (b) transportation costs; (c) basic commodity prices in
project affected villages; and (d) overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved
delivery of road infrastructure, will be generated by a socio-economic impact study. The
study will include an assessment of the magnitude and distribution of the direct and
indirect socio-economic benefits of rural accessibility improvement and determine the
extent to which improvement interventions under RAP-II caused changes in the
livelihood of the targeted beneficiaries.

The socio-economic impact study at the midterm was done by Ms Gonefel Options
Consult and at the end of project by Ms RC Consultancy.

As per the AM, Mid Term Review Mission, “the project has achieved, and in some cases,
exceeded its midterm review targets, which confirms a satisfactory progress towards
achieving the development objectives?


                                             56
Table 4:     Results Monitoring (March 2010 at MTR)
 Project Outcome Indicators                      Baseline                     YR3
                                                                            Target          Actual
 (a) reduction in travel time of beneficiaries to key    1-15.5 hrs or 4-62 25%             19%
 economic and social centers in the nearest town by      km to all-season
 EOP.                                                    road
 (b) reduction in transportation costs of goods and      Unit     costs  of Proposed        to   be
 supplies from/to beneficiary villages to/from the       human/animal       dropped
 nearest town by EOP.                                    transport:

                                                         Nu. 0.28-0.42

                                                      Per km per kg
 (c) lower basic commodity prices in project villages Baseline      Data Proposed to be
 than in unconnected villages as a result of newly Collected             dropped
 constructed roads
 (d) overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the Baseline data to be             91%
 improved delivery of road infrastructure             collected
 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
  Physical Component
 (a) 60% of beneficiaries from 36 direct beneficiary 0%                  40%      47%
 villages (TBC) to be placed within 2 km or 30 min of
 walking distance to all-season road by EOP.
 (b) % of target feeder roads constructed.            0%                 23%      25.34%
 (c) % of target feeder roads improved to all-season     0%                   21%           100%
 standards.
 (d) % of target bridges constructed                     0%                   18%           50%
 (e) % of target feeder roads maintained to all-season   0%                   15%           43.44%
 standards.
 Institutional Component
 All planned training programs are delivered      To be undertaken in Achieved
                                                  YR1
 DOR applies EFRC in all road projects regardless Applied    in     5          5
 their sources of funding.                        projects

After the dropping of two PDO at the project restructure the PDO’s to be monitored at the
end of the project were as follows:

   (i) Travel time by targeted beneficiaries to economic and social centers will be
          reduced by 50 percent;



                                           57
   (ii) Overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved delivery of road
           infrastructure; and

Reduction in travel time to major service centers is 78% as against the target of 50% as
per the Socio-economic impact monitoring study (SEIMS) report.




Overall                                                                    beneficiaries’
satisfaction                                                       with the improved
delivery of road infrastructure is 93% as per the SEIMS report. Over 90% of the
beneficiaries’ are satisfied with the road infrastructure and the services such as road
condition, comfort, convenience, and safety.




Table 5:     Results Monitoring (EOP)
 Project Outcome Indicators                                    Baseline            YR5 (EOP)
                                                                                   Target   Actual
 (a) reduction in travel time of beneficiaries to key          1-15.5 hrs or 4-62 km 50%      78%
 economic and social centers in the nearest town by EOP.       to all-season road
 (b) reduction in transportation costs of goods and supplies   Unit       costs    of Dropped
 from/to beneficiary villages to/from the nearest town by      human/animal



                                                58
 EOP.                                                     transport:

                                                          Nu. 0.28-0.42

                                                           Per km per kg
 (c) lower basic commodity prices in project villages than Baseline        Data   Dropped
 in unconnected villages as a result of newly constructed Collected
 roads
 (d) overall beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the improved n/a                              93%
 delivery of road infrastructure
 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
  Physical Component
 (a) 60% of beneficiaries from 36 direct beneficiary 0%                           60%       47%
 villages (TBC) to be placed within 2 km or 30 min
 of walking distance to all-season road by EOP.
 (b) % of target feeder roads constructed.                0%                      100%      100%
 (c) % of target feeder roads improved to all-season 0%                     100%            100%
 standards.
 (d) % of target bridges constructed                    0%                  100%            100%
 (e) % of target feeder roads maintained to all-season 0%                   100%            100%
 standards.
 Institutional Component
 All planned training programs are delivered            To be undertaken in                 Achieved
                                                        YR1
 DOR applies EFRC in all road projects regardless their                                     Achieved
 sources of funding.

3.2     Achievement by Components

Road Access Component
The civil works new road construction of 66.94km as against target of 65km and road
improvement of 23.34km against target of 24.34km has been completed. This has
immensely benefitted the rural people of the three Dzongkhags of Wangdi, Dagana and
Pemagatshel.

Piloting of low cost sealing was done successfully in Drametse 7km and Bajo Shengana
8.2km. Performance Based Maintenance Scheme and maintenance contracting is on-
going in DOR.

New bridges bailey bridges and RCC bridges, a total of 102.768 m was constructed
against a target of 116m.

Capacity Development and Implementation Support Component



                                             59
All the human resource development and training activities have been completed.
Procurement of vehicles and equipments has also been completed.

Socio-economic impact monitoring study has been completed.

4.     Lessons Learnt

4.1    Environment safeguards
Environmental conservation is a key requirement of the project. As per the Financing
Agreement, schedule 2 B under project execution, it was agreed that the project shall be
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP), EAs, SDRR and SAF. Also the project responds to one of the World Bank’s CAS
for Bhutan (2006-2009), on environmental conservation through mainstreaming of EFRC
methods.

Use of country systems
RAP-II is the first project in the South Asia region to pilot the use of Country Systems
(UCS) that meet the World Bank safeguard requirements of the World Bank operational
policy (OP/BP 4.00) “Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental
and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Supported Projects? issued in March 2005. Under
this policy, all investments to be financed by the project will apply RGOB environmental
laws, regulations and Environmental Impacts Assessment guidelines for selected
safeguard policies on a pilot basis.
The “Safeguard Diagnostic Review Report (SDRR)? indicated that there is substantial
equivalence between Bhutan’s system and the requirements of OP 4.00 with respect to
EA, NH, PCR. The differences can be addressed within the scope and duration of RAP II.
Regarding the IR there were significant differences and WB will continue to apply its
safeguard OP 4.12 rather than Bhutan’s system for management of IR impacts.

To achieve and sustain the equivalency the project has introduced several good practices
on environment safeguards on overall management of the environment, implementation
of EMPs, monitoring at various levels, demobilization, environment action plans,
improved coordination, EFRC training in DOR and Districts, job-specific contractor
trainings etc. The World Bank has also conducted an independent review of the UCS.
The project could learn many good practices through the pilot UCS and rates it as
successful.

4.2     Environment Friendly Road Construction
The concept of environmental friendly road construction (EFRC) was introduced in DOR
in the year 2000 through the Rural Access Project I with support from SNV (Netherlands
Development Organization). It was introduced with an initial assessment suggesting
increase in cost of 30 % and recovery period of 8 years. However the life cycle cost
analysis done in 2007 showed that an EFRC cost 15% higher than the traditional method
and the cost recovery period of is 3-4 years. EFRC is not only a safe construction
technology but also aims to improve the road planning and selection by way of avoiding
geologically, environmentally or culturally vulnerable areas right from the planning stage.


                                           60
It aims to arrive at engineering designs with optimal balance between prevention of
environmental damages and investment cost.

EFRC in DOR
The Environment Assessment Act and the Regulations for Environment Clearance of
Projects (RECoP 2002) requires all the construction projects to obtain the environment
clearance (EC) before the start of any works and to maintain a valid EC throughout the
duration of the project. The EC require all road construction projects to follow the
Environmental Code of Practice Roads and Highways, which follows the EFRC concepts.
Therefore EFRC is not only followed in the DOR but it is a policy requirement for the
construction of roads nationwide.

The project has further strengthened the EFRC capacities of DOR/contractors through
trainings, on control blasting and bio-engineering and implementation of EMP. However
there are some challenges for implementation of EFRC:
     Balance cut and fill in mountainous terrain
     Landslides and monsoon damages

4.3    Quality Control
There were various quality control and assurance systems in the RAP II as follows:
     Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) – The plan is required to be prepared by the
       contractor on basic tests required
     Technical specifications – RAP II specifications have requirements for
       conducting quality tests
     Request for inspection (RFI) – Submitted before start of any work or work sub
       activity
     Non-conformance report (NCR) – Issued for non-conformance to technical
       specifications
     Quality control and basic field test trainings – Provided by the project

The project has seen further improvements in quality control. Trainings were provided on
conducting field tests and guidance was provided on other test requirements of the
technical specifications of RAP II. Contractors have improved over time, on assuring
quality and conducting tests on civil works. Contractors have set up site laboratory with
all the required equipments in place. However there are still some gaps that need to be
addressed and improved as follows:
      Training of engineers and contractors has to an on-going process.
      Dedicated quality control engineer or focal person is desirable in DOR.
      Set up of field laboratory by contractors has to be made mandatory by contract
        documents.




                                           61
4.4     Value Engineering
A value engineering assessment was carried out as a cost reduction strategy and to
standardize the design and preparation of estimates for road works. This exercise was
mainly to assess the actual required quantities of work at site against the designed
quantities to reach at more realistic and cost effective estimates. Some of the cost
reduction strategy for EFRC road in the various stages of design and estimation is as
follows:

      Wall quantities – For mountain terrains half cut half fill was possible only for
       about 10% of the road length. In RAP II it was found that 10% of retaining walls
       (100m for 1km) were found to be generally adequate.
      Breast walls – There is no provision of breast in designs, it was only provided as
       required at site for protection of weak and marshy slopes.
      Gabions walls - All walls of 5m and below are designed as gabion walls owing to
       the low cost, flexibility, good drainage and adequate retaining strength for
       retaining up to 5m of fill. Only walls above 5m are designed as RRM walls for
       improved retaining strength.
      L-shaped drains – Owing to the small road widths in the feeder roads, the drains
       are designed as L-shaped to allow vehicle to pass over the drains when required.
      Barriers – There should be provision of barriers like log barrier, boulder barriers,
       trench barriers. Trench barriers were found to very effective in reducing damage
       and retaining maximum spoil in road constructions.

4.5     Technical Audit
A system of technical audit has been introduced in RAP II. Six engineers from MoWHS
were trained to conduct TA. TA was conducted on RAP roads regularly. The TA is a best
practice that reviews the overall health of a project with respect to compliance to the
contract document and the technical specifications.

4.6     Use of dense grade base course
RAP I used the open grade base course in 2 layers 20-50mm and 40-63mm layers. RAP
II used the dense grade base course 0-40mm. Results have shown that riding quality is
better than the open grade base course. The results especially on the life of the base
course will further be tested during the maintenance.

4.7     Independent Project Management Units
In the RAP I the project management units were under the administrative and financial
control of the field divisions of DOR. Owing to problems faced with the earlier system,
in the RAP II project management units have been made independent. PMU is headed by
a Project Manager who is assisted by one junior engineer and they function
independently from the field divisions. PMU’s are responsible for overall supervision of
works, contract administration and quality assurance.




                                           62
Project management has largely improved with an independent PMU. Bills can be paid
faster since it is paid directly by the PM. Administrative functions are simple, direct and
easier to follow. Decisions are taken promptly and quicker than in the earlier system.
There is improvement in transparency and accountability.

4.8    Introduction of Interim Payment Certificates
System of IPC is introduced for improving the cash flow for contractors. Contractors
have to claim at least one running bill in every two months. Bills are paid within a
maximum of 28 days from the claim. This system has helped the contractor with his cash
flow and helped improve progress on works.

4.9   Low cost sealing
Lessons learnt from the pilot otta seal are as follows:
     Otta seal works were aimed at providing a protective cover to the gravel road and
      improve the riding quality.
     Since it is a very thin course 16mm, it will work well only on a good base course.
     Otta seal has to be done on freshly laid base course. Ideally after 3-4 weeks from
      base course laying or at least before a monsoon after the laying of the base course.
     It is suitable for plain gradient roads.
     It costs lower than the normal premix carpet and asphalt concrete but it is suitable
      for low traffic rural roads.

5.        Comments on road from Districts, SEIMS June 2012

5.1       Jangchucholing-Tashidingkha Road, Wangdiphodrang District

         Brings connectivity to the villages in Dangchu gewog.
         People receive better access to health care facilities and attend to emergencies in a
          short time. Sick people can be referred faster to Dzongkhag Hospital at Wangdue
          and Jigme Dorji Wangchuk Referral Hospital at Thimphu.
         Can have supply of agricultural inputs in time due to the road connectivity.
         The road helps in marketability of agriculture produce.
         Increase in production of cash crops e.g. chili and potato not only for self
          consumption but also for sell to earn some
         Diversify production of vegetables for sell to earn cash income.


5.2       Drujeygang-Balung Road, Dagana

         Project road has better design, wide and has good drainage as it is strictly
          monitored during construction.
         Brings connectivity to the villages in Drujeygang, Tshangkha and Lajab gewogs


                                               63
         People have better access to health care facilities and the sick people can be
          referred faster to Dzongkhag Hospital at Dagapela and Regional Referral hospital
          at Gelephu, Jigme Dorji Wangchuk Referral Hospital at Thimphu. People can
          reach healthcare facilities at the time of emergency.
         The road has helped in marketing of agriculture produces like oranges, maize,
          cardamom etc.
         There has been increase in production of cash crops and vegetables leading to
          better income for the farmers.

5.3       Khotakpa-Khar-Tsebar Road, Pemagatshel

         Brings connectivity to the villages in Khar, Chongshing and Yurung gewogs.
         People have better access to health care facilities and the sick people can be
          referred faster to Dzongkhag Hospital at Pema Gatshel. People can reach
          healthcare facilities at the time of emergency.
         Can have supply of agricultural inputs in time due to the road connectivity.
         Helps marketability of agriculture produces.




                                             64
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    65
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

        Project Implementation Plan

        Project Appraisal Document for Kingdom of Bhutan: Second Rural Access
         Project (RAP-II) dated March 12, 2007 (Report No: 38312-BT)

        Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

        Project Progress Reports.

        Borrower's Evaluation Report dated August 2012


*including electronic files




                                           66
                                                                                                                                           90°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BHUTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S E CO ND RURAL ACCESS P ROJECT
                                                                                                             0         10           20      30        40 Kilometers                                     PROJECT ROADS PLANNED TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTED AT APPRAISAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.    Chuba Chorten–Dungdung                       18.17 km                                            PRIMARY NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                   89°E                                                      0                 10             20             30 Miles                             2.    Balung–Drujeygang                            33.91 km                                            SECONDARY NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.    Khodokpa–Pema Gatshel                        13.00 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DZONGKHAG (DISTRICT) ROADS
                                                         BHUTAN                                                                                                                                   4.    Pema Gatshel–Tsebar                          14.00 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.    Tsebar–Yurung                                23.50 km                                            FEEDER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL                     102.58 km                                             OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS                                                                         PROPOSED ROADS IN 9TH PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                 ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                        DZONGKHAG (DISTRICT) CAPITALS                                                                    DZONGKHAG (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                       DEPARTMENT OF ROADS FIELD DIVISIONS
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                           91°E                                                                                   92°E


                                                                                                                 GASA
                                                                                                             Jigme Dorji
             28°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    28°N
                                                                                                            National Park

                                                                                                                     Gasa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LHUENTSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kulongchhu
                                                                                                                     Damji                                 WANGDUE                                                                          Dungkhar                               Wildlife
                                                                                                                                                           PHO DRANG                                                                                                              Sanctuary
                                                                                                      Trashithang                                                                                      BUMTHANG
                                                                                                                     PUNAKHA                                        Chuba Chorten
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TRASHI
                                                                                         THIMPHU                                                                    4.2 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lhuentse                  'YANGTSE
                                                                                               Dodina                                Shengana
                                                                                                                                                             1      Tashidingkha
                                                                                                                 Punakha                                                                                        Kurjey         Tang       Tangmachu                           Trashi
                                                                                                                     Talo            Tseshinang        13.97 km                                                                                                            ’Yangtse
                                                                           PARO                                     Lobeysa
                                                                                                                                                                                           Dangshing     Jakar
                                                                                                                                                     Dungdung                Chuserbu
                                                                      Drukgyal           THIMPHU                                            Chuzomsa                                                                                                                                           Tshenkharla
                                                                        Dzong                                                                                                                                                                                          Tomzhangtshen
                                                                                                                                         Wangdue                                                Trongsa
                                                                                        Paro               Semtokha                                        Phobji                                                                           Thrumshingla
                                                                      Talung                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ramjar
                                                         Damthang                                                Gumina
                                                                                                                                                     Khotakha                                                                                Nat’l. Park                  Shershong                       Bartshma    Phongme
                                                      Torsa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sakteng
                                                      Strict
                                                                    Haa                           Khasadrapchu
                                                                                                                                                                                     TRONGSA                                                                              Drametse Chazam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bidung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wildlife
                                                     Nature                                      Chunzom                                                                     Black Mtns.                                                                                                       Trashigang                   Sanctuary
                                                     Reserve                                                                                       Kamichu                                                                                          Gangola
                                                                                                                                                                             Nat’l. Park                       Zhemgang                                                                        TRASHIGANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Buli   Lingmithang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mongar
                                                                    HAA
                                                                                                           DAGANA                        Waklaytar
                                         Tendu                                                                                                                                                                        ZH
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tingtibi                            MONGAR                                         Phekpari

                                                                                     Chhukha                        Dagana
                                                                                                                                                       TSIRANG                                                              EM
                                                                                 Meta                                                      Balung               Lobsebotty                                                                                    Khodokpa       3
                                                                                        CHHUKHA                                               2            Damphu                                                                  G                                13 km        Pema Gatshel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAMDRUP
                                          Sipsu             Dorokha
                                                                                                                             33.91 km
                                                                                                                            Drujeygang
                                                                                                                                                                                   Jigmecholing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gomphu       AN                  Yurung       14 km    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tshelingkhor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27°N
             27°N                                                         Changakha                                                                                                                       Gomphu                              G                                                              JONGKHAR
                                                  SAMTSE                                                                                                               SARPANG                             School                                                   23.5 km Tsebar            Narphung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Manjiwong
                                                                                                                                                     Lamidara
                                                          Yoeseltse
                                                                                               Gedu     Mirchim
                                                                                                                      Emiray
                                                                                                                                    Trashiding
                                                                                                                                                                                                Gelek Zam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5                                           Jampani
                                                                           Kharbandi                                                                     Sarpang                                                Royal Manas
                                                               Samtse                                                                                                             Gelephu                                                                               Dewathang
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Norbuling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Nat’l. Park    Panbang            Nganglam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Samdrup                                                    Khaling




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 35218R
                                                                                                                                          Kerabari                                                                                                                                       Samdrupcholing                         Wildlife Sanctuary
                                                                                                                      Piping                                                                                                                                PEMA   Jongkhar
APRIL 2013




                                                                                                                                Kalikhola                    Phipsoo                                                                                       GATSHEL
                                                                                                                                                             Wildlife Sanctuary
             GSDPM
             Map Design Unit
                                                  89°E                                                                                      90°E                                                                                            91°E                                                                                    92°E
