FJI g ff C                                Document of
" U' t}F               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2236-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAIBAND
FOR THE
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
August 29, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = B 20.40
B 1 = US$0.049
B 1,000,000 = US$490,020
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)       -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)    -    2.47 acres (ac)
6.25 rai
1 liter(l)        -    0.26 gallons (gal)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAT     -  Communications Authority of Thailand
CIF     -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
EGAT    -  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
IEAT    -  Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT    -  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
ISF     -  Interest Subsidy Fund
ITU     -  International Telecommunications Union
MWWA    - Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NAC     -  National Audit Council
NESDB   -  National Economic and Social Development Board
NGOT    -  Natural Gas Organization of Thailand
NHA     -  National Housing Authority
OECF    -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PEA     -  Provincial Electricity Authority
PTD     -  Post and Telegraph Department
RTG     -  Kingdom of Thailand
SRT     -  State Railway of Thailand
STD     -  Subscriber Trunk Dialling
SWEDTEL - Swedish Telecommunications Consultants AB
TOT     -  Telephone Organization of Thailand
UHF     -  Ultra High Frequency
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Fund
VHF     -  Very High Frequency
FISCAL YEAR
THAILAND:  October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT).
Guarantor:     Kingdom of Thailand.
Amount:         $90 million.
Terms:         20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.90% p.a.
Project
Description: The project seeks Li extend and improve domestic telephone
services in Thailand particularly in rural areas where 235
out of 524 currently unserved rural districts will be provided
with long-distance telephone service for the first time. About
45,000 lines and 200 new long-distance links to be installed
in provincial areas will provide more convenient telephone
access to the rural population. Access to public pay telephones
will be significanty increased in Bangkok to serve lower income
population. The institutional improvements to be implemented
under the project will further strengthen TOT's management and
operational, capabilities.
The project, includes installation of (a) about 185,000 lines of
local exchange equipment with associated cables and subscribers'
plant for connecting about 170,000 new subscribers and about
6,000 public call offices; (b) about 3,000 lines of local
exchange equipment to replace old equipment and mobile exchanges
in Bangkok; (c) about 13,000 lines in seven existing tandem
exchanges in Bangkok for inter-exchange traffic; (d) about
15,000 line!s in existing trunk automatic exchanges for sub-
scribers' trunk dialling traffic; (e) microwave radio systems
and on two new routes upgrading, replacement and addition of
microwave radio equipment on 12 existing routes, and adding
about 12,500 channel ends; (f) about 200 UHF and other trans-
mission systems and station equipment for about 210 long-distance
call offices for extension of service to rural areas now without
service; (g) vehicles, civil works and other facilities for
implementing the project.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents m.iay not jth.fwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
$ Million                  % of
Local       Foreign       Total        total
Local Network
Switching Equipment                13.0         44.0          57.0         18
Cables and Outside Plant           32.5         44.1          76.6         25
Subscriber Plant                    2.1          10.0         12.1          4
Subtotal                      47.6         98.1        145.7          47
Long-Distance Network
Switching Equipment                 4.0          13.8         17.8          6
Transmission Equipment             10.8          34.2         45.0         15
Rural Call Offices                  0.4           3.0          3.4          1
Subtotal                      15.2         51.0         66.2          22
Land and Buildings                   24.0            -          24.0           8
Vehicles                               2.8          1.0          3.8           1
Miscellaneous Works                   14.6           -          14.6           5
Total Base Costs             104.2        150.1        254.3          83
Contingencies
Physical                            2.1           3.0          5.1          2
Price                              20.9         26.9          47.8         15
Subtotal                      23.0         29.9         52.9          17
Total Project Costs          127.2        180.0        307.2        100



- iii -
Financing Plan:
$ Million
Local       Foreign      Total
Bank                          -           90.0        90.0
Bilateral Loans (OECF)    2.0             60.0        62.0
Commercial Bank Loans        -            30.0        30.0
Government Loan             5.0             -          5.0
TOT                       120.0             -        120.0
Total                     127.0          180.0       307.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
$ Million
Bank FY          1979      1980      1981    1982    1983
Annual           1.0       19.0      40.0    20.0    10.0
Cumulative       1.0       20.0      60.0    80.0    90.0
Economic Rate of Return: 21%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 1895-TH, August 17, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Telephone Organization of Thailand for the equivalent of $90 million to
help finance the Third Telecommunications Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% p.a. A
loan of $22.0 million equivalent from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) was secured in February 1978. The loan would have a term of 20 years
including 7-1/2 years grace with interest at 3.5%. A further loan of about
$40 million from OECF on the same terms but at an interest rate of 5% is
expected to be finalized by March 31, 1979. Commercial banks co-financing for
about $30 million is being arranged.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation (2059Th)" has just been completed and is to be distributed
to the Executive Directors in early September, 1978 and later to the members
of the Consultative Group prior to its meeting December 5-6, 1978. The
findings of this report considerably expand our understanding of Thailand's
economy and of the essential characteristics of the poverty group. The
principal conclusions of the report have been incorporated in the following
paragraphs. A major revision of Part I fully reflecting the report will be
included in the next PresiLdent's Report. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political and Economic Development
3.        The Government of Prime Minister Thanin, which was installed follow-
ing the assumption of power by the National Administrative Reform Council
(NARC) in October 1976, lasted one year. On October 20, 1977, members of
the NARC, dissatisfied wilth the Thanin Government's domestic and foreign
policies and its 16-year timetable for restoring democratic processes, ousted
the Prime Minister and his cabinet.  The NARC then reconstituted itself as
the National Policy Council, the highest political authority in the country.
In November, the National Policy Council appointed General Kriangsak Chomanan
to be Prime Minister and he then formed a cabinet comprised mostly of civilians.
Under the interim constitution a general election was supposed to be held
within one year but the new permanent constitution has not yet been approved
and elections are likely to be postponed until early 1979. The new government
affirmed its support of the objectives of the country's Fourth Five-Year
National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81) and announced its
intention to undertake more aggressive development policies. Its principal
concerns are alleviating rural poverty, particularly in the Northeast, and
/1 Parts I and II of this report are a partially updated version of the
recent President's Report (No. P-2363-THl dated June 27, 1978) for the
Natural Gas Development Engineering Project in Thailand, distributed to
the Executive Directors on June 29, 1978.



improving relations with neighboring socialist countries. Since December
1977, steps have been taken to normalize relations with Laos, Viet Nam and
Democratic Kampuchea.
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Rapid
growth of the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded average
annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10%, respectively, enabled
real GDP to expand at an average rate of about 7.6% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20 to 27% of GDP, with private
investment constituting two thirds of total investment. The share of gross
domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19 to 24%. As a result, in no year did the
resource gap (import surplus needed to realize the levels of consumption and
investment achieved) exceed 5% of GDP, and was considerably less in most years.
5.        During the international recession of 1974/75, the economy demon-
strated considerable resilience; it has now recovered from the deceleration
of growth which marked the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP
rose from 5% in 1974 and 7.7% in 1975 to 8.2% in 1976, and 6.2% in 1977.
In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973/74, when the external sector and
private investment provided the main impetus to growth, the much-needed stimuli
to demand since 1975 came from the public sector, with a strong expansion in
export receipts reinforcing the growth of domestic demand in the latter two
years.
6.        The balance of payments has deteriorated in recent years, however,
despite continued rapid rise in export earnings. Both 1975 and 1976 registered
much higher current account deficits than occurred in previous years ($600 mil-
lion in 1975 and $450 million in 1976 compared to $50 million in 1973 and
$90 million in 1974). A large part of these deficits was due to the decline
in Thailand's terms of trade by 33% between 1973 and 1976. The import price
index rose by 60% in 1974, mainly due to the hike in oil prices; however,
a substantial improvement in prices of most of the country's major exports
helped to limit the decline in the terms of trade in that year to less than
10%. In 1975 through 1977 there were moderate import price increases and
stable or falling export prices led to a further substantial fall in the
terms of trade. In 1977, despite an unprecedented high level of exports, the
current account deficit amounted to $1.1 billion.
7.        As a consequence of the higher current account deficit and lower
net capital inflows, reserves, which had increased in 1974, declined by $195
million in 1975. Although there was some improvement in foreign direct
investment, total private capital inflows declined in 1976. Capital inflows
to the public sector, on the other hand, increased substantially as the
Government's first borrowing of $100 million from a syndicate of private banks
was drawn down and project loans committed in 1974/75 began to be disbursed.
Taking into account an SDR 67 million loan under the compensatory financing
scheme of the IMF, the overall balance of payments in 1976 recorded a small
surplus but a deficit of about $377 million occurred in 1977, which was
financed mainly by drawing down reserves. The country's net reserves in
December 1977 amounted to $1.2 billion, equivalent to slightly less than 3
months' imports, as compared to a reserve level of almost 6 months' imports
equivalent at the end of 1974.



- 3 -
8.        Thailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and
1976. Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in
import prices contained the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975
and 4.2% in 1976, a sharp deceleration from an annual average increase of 20%
in 1973 and 1974. Inflation increased somewhat in 1977 with the rise in
the Consumer Price Index rising by 7.2%.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        The new Government's policy concerns and development strategies are
reflected in the Fourth Plan (1977-81). The Plan's principal objectives
include a growth target of 7%, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and a balanced development of the different regions. Projected public sector
development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period as
compared to a level of $4.6 billion achieved over the Third Plan (1972-76).
Nevertheless, the Plan aLddresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad
terms, and concrete policy and programs to meet the Plan's economic and
social objectives remain to be defined. The Bank has therefore initiated an
intensive program of economic studies to help the Government define a policy
and investment framework for implementation of the Fourth Plan. These
studies, as well as concurrent work under way within the Government, are
focusing on problems of employment and income distribution and will help to
define the policy issues involved more precisely.
10.       Some of these studies are still in progress but the findings of the
basic economic mission Lndicate that the Thai economy has many positive
features which augur weLl for rapid and broadly distributed growth. These
include the sustained rapid rate of economic growth over the past two decades;
relatively equitable distribution of rural land; responsiveness of Thai
farmers to superior technology; extensive provision of infrastructure by the
Thai Government; dynamism of the private sector in both industry and agricul-
ture; and, finally, the major gains made in family planning in recent years.
From the high population growth of 3% annually during the 1960s, the rate of
growth had slowed to 2.6% in 1976 and 2.5% in 1977. However, social and
economic progress in the future is likely to require a more active role on
the part of the Government if the goals of the Plan are to be achieved.
11.       Agricultural growth in the past has been based to a large extent on
the expansion of cultivated areas. Prospects for further expansion of culti-
vated areas are now limLited and future growth of the sector will have to be
based mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, improvement in
yields, continued diversification of crops, including, in some areas, different
forms of cropping patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricul-
tural credit. All of these would require increased Government assistance to
the private rural sector. Furthermore, a significant part of the rural popu-
lation, particularly in the north and northeast regions, has not fully partici-
pated in the recent growth in rural income, and special programs will have to
be formulated to accelerate income growth in these areas. In the past, public
rural investment has concentrated on the expansion of the irrigation network
in the central plain. A greater effort is now required to develop upland and
other rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural infrastruc-
ture development. Income levels of farmers in these areas are much lower than



- 4 -
in the irrigated areas and their increased productivity is necessary to ensure
continued growth of the agricultural sector as well as to improve the distri-
bution of income.
12.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the impetus for future growth will have
to come increasingly from the industrial sector. Industry, construction
and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment and
income opportunities for the growing population. Industrial policy and
programs should be designed to create jobs for the rapidly growing labor
force at increasing levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will be
required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok, and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports remains feasible, the large domestic rural sector also
offers opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment,
and processed agricultural products as well as on production for foreign
markets.
13.       A central development issue in Thailand today, therefore, is managing
the transition from an economy whose growth is based on the extension of land
under cultivation and import substitution industries to one based on increas-
ingly intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's
role has been confined largely to short-term economic management, where it's
performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic and social
services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the Government
will have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions. This implies
that an integrated and carefully planned program of reform of public institu-
tions will have to be implemented. Such a program should be carried out
systematically and gradually over a period of years and would need to include:
(a) changes in the system of personnel management; (b) improving the capacity
of ministries to plan, monitor and control activities of their respective
departments; (c) greater decentralization of decision-making to the provincial
and local levels; and (d) rationalization of the functions of, and coordination
among, the central government agencies responsible for planning, budgeting,
staffing and economic management.
14.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's expenditures to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will, therefore, require much greater efforts to mobilize
both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government domestic
revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1977) was low compared to other



- 5 -
developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax rates,
high exemptions and a somewhat-below-average rate of compliance. Improved
resource mobilization through increased taxation of property and income and
better collection efforts will make the tax system more progressive. Such
changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade, partic-
ularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural growth.
15.       The deterioration in the country's terms of trade has raised substan-
tially the external capital flows needed for achieving a satisfactory rate of
growth. The financing of the tentative investment program of the Fourth Plan
is likely to require commitmaents of about $3-3.5 billion in project financing
and further public borrowing of $500-700 million through sources such as
Eurocurrency loans, suppliers' credits and industrial countries' export
financing facilities. This public sector borrowing program would raise the
public debt service ratio (service payments on public debt as a percentage of
exports) from 2.6% in 1975 ito 8.2% in 1981. Although the service ratio for
total debt, which amounted to 13.4% in 1976, is projected to remain below 20%
throughout the Fourth Plan lperiod, the unfavorable development of the country's
balance of payments since 1974 and the significantly larger role required of
the public sector to maintain growth in the future justify some concessionality
in the foreign financing of government projects. At their meeting of March 22
and 23, 1977, members of the Consultative Group considered these projected
amounts of external borrowing reasonable and supported the Government's
objective to seek a major part of such financing on concessional terms. It
therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in the
Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange components. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditure.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
16.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 46
loans amounting to $1,151.2 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($295.5 million), irrigation ($218.8 million) and
power/energy and rural electrification ($245.9 million) with, in addition, one
for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining
loans have been for water supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($63 million),
education ($52.3 million), industry ($42.8 million), rural development ($21 mil-
lion), livestock ($5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million), national agri-
cultural extension ($28 mi:Llion) and a sites and services project in Bangkok
($8.6 million); with the rural development and livestock loans having been
made under the terms of the Interest Subsidy Fund. Thailand has also received
four IDA credits: one for $19.5 million for an education project; two
credits totaling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement; and one credit of



- 6 -
$33.1 million for a population project. In general, Bank-financed projects
have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of
July 31, 1978.
17.       Over the past year, loans have been approved for national agricul-
tural extension, irrigation, power and industrial development. In the
current two-year cycle, projects to support a broad range of agricultural
development, agricultural credit and research, rural infrastructure, education,
small- and medium-scale industries, population and low-cost housing and
traffic management would account for about two thirds of the proposed program.
Continued lending is also planned for power, including rural electrification,
coal expansion, and natural gas development. In transportation, the emphasis
has shifted from major highways to provincial and rural roads and improvement
of inland waterways and coastal ports.
18.       The Bank continues to diversify its lending program in Thailand
with the objective of assisting the Government to expand its effort to improve
the distribution of income as well as to maintain a rapid rate of growth.
Increasingly, projects are selected and designed to spread development
benefits to the lower income groups and the more needy regions. One of the
main functions of the Bank's regional mission in Bangkok is to assist the
Government in developing projects to meet these objectives.
19.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$309 million, as of December 31, 1976, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
20.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation of Thailand; three loans and an investment, totaling
$32.17 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund Company; and a
loan of $2.5 million and an equity investment of $200,000 in United Sugar
Terminal Company. IFC has recently approved a line of credit of $2.0 million
for small- and medium-scale enterprises to be administered by Siam Commercial
Bank. IFC has also completed the appraisal of a project for producing carbon
black. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably good. IFC has been
asked to arrange the debt financing of approximately $50 million for a $90 mil-
lion zinc mining and refinery project. Other likely operations are the devel-
opment of privately sponsored industrial estates, two projects to expand
cement production, and one for the manufacture of glass bottles and containers.
At the Government's request, the Capital Markets Department carried out a
reorganization study of the Government Housing Bank, which is currently being
implemented by the latter institution.



PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Org.nization
21.       The public telecommunications services in Thailand are state-owned
and are operated by two state enterprises under the Ministry of Communications:
the Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT) and the Communications Authority
of Thailand (CAT). TOT is responsible for domestic public services and CAT
for public telegraph, telex and all international services. A third entity,
the Post and Telegraph Department (PTD) under the same ministry, is responsible
for allocating radio frequencies and representing the Government at all interna-
tional telecommunications meetings. TOT and CAT coordinate their activities
through joint committees. Also, the managing director of TOT is a member of
CAT's Board of Directors and the President of CAT is a member of TOT's Board
of Directors. This ensures high-level coordination of policy issues relating
to the two entities. Due to inadequate public long-distance telephone facili-
ties in rural areas, many government agencies and large commercial firms
operate their own private networks. Three privately owned domestic factories
manufacture telephone subsets and certain types of telephone cables.
Development of Telephone Services
22.       Since the early 1970s, the telecommunications sector in Thailand
has been undergoing rapid development in an attempt to meet the increasing
flow of business and administrative information required to support Thailand's
continued growth. Telephone facilities in 1972 comprised about 127,300
telephone lines in Bangkolc and about 34,400 lines in the provinces. Against
this, there was an unsatisfied demand of 186,700. In 1972, TOT embarked on
an 8-year (FY72-79) Development Program costing $382 million (foreign
costs: $160 million). This program, now under implementation, was supported
by two Bank loans - $37 million (864-TH) in 1972 and $26 million (1253-TH)
in 1976. By the end of the Program in 1979, about 133,500 telephone lines
will have been added in Bangkok and about 51,600 in the provinces. The total
number of telephones (liness plus extensions) will be about 485,600, raising
the telephone density from 0.61 telephones per 100 population in 1972 to 1.02
in 1979. In addition, through expansion of long-distance telephone facilities,
the program aims at progressive introduction of nationwide subscriber trunk
dialling service (STD) from 1980.
Access to Telephone Services
23.       The planned 115% increase in telephone lines during FY72-79 was
inadequate to meet the conservative forecast demand growth of about
10% p.a. The unsatisfied demand for new telepnone connections in the country
has risen from 186,700 at end 1972 to about 287,800 at end 1977. Thailand's
1977 telephone density /1 of 0.83 was significantly lower than in many other
countries in the region (Malaysia - 2.42, Papua New Guinea - 1.96, Philippines -
/1 Telephones per 100 population.



- 8 -
1.17). The high concentration of telephones in Bangkok, the country's admin-
istrative and commercial center, is to be expected, but in absolute terms, the
city's telephone density of 4.8 telephones per 100 residents is also signifi-
cantly lower than those for Manila - 23.3, Kuala Lumpur - 21.0, and Singapore -
14.0. In the provinces, telephone service is concentrated in 110 urban local-
ities with about 17.6% of total population. Of the 660 amphurs (district
administration areas) in the country, only 136 have access to telephone
service.  This has inhibited the Government's plans for decentralizing civil
administration and dispersal of industry. Of the 524 amphurs without service,
53 amphurs have a population of over 100,000 each.
Telephone Usage and Quality of Service
24.       Forty-seven percent of the telephone lines in Bangkok and 79% in
the provinces are installed in business premises. A substantial proportion
of the lines classified as residential is also primarily used for business
purposes. Seventy-one percent of all calls in Bangkok and 81% in the provinces
relate to business purposes. The domestic long-distance traffic reflects the
dominance of Bangkok and in general about 50-60% of all long distance calls
originating in the provinces are for Bangkok.
25.       In the Bangkok local network, about 50% of calls dialed during
peak business hours are unsuccessful mainly because of called numbers being
busy, a result of shortage of working lines in relation to the demand, and
technical faults. TOT has instituted remedial measures to upgrade the tech-
nical quality of local networks and improve maintenance to reduce incidence
of faults but until the shortage of telephones could be met, call failures due
to called number being busy will continue. The quality of operator-controlled
long-distance service is subject to long delays due to shortage of circuits
and manual operating positions. The inadequacy of trunk service affects most
adversely the rural areas which depend on telephone service to obtain administra-
tive, commercial, health care and other services from nearby towns and Bangkok.
Demand for Service
26.       Waiting lists of potential subscribers are not officially maintained.
Hence, identifiable demand for telephone connections in Bangkok and the
provinces has been conservatively estimated on the basis of an analysis of
demographic data and of historical evidence relating to the extent to which
increased supplies into unserved areas have stimulated previously unknown
demand. The average growth rate in demand has been forecast at 11.4% p.a.
during FY78-82. This is conservative and below the norm of about 15% in most
developing countries.
27.       The past growth of long-distance service has been considerably
hampered by a shortage of long-distance circuits and manual operating positions.
Also due to lack of local telephone facilities in rural areas, the long-distance
traffic needs of the rural areas have not been satisfied. With the expansion
of both the long distance and local networks, particularly the improved access
to service in rural areas, and gradual introduction of STD service from 1980,
the long-distance traffic growth has been forecast at an average annual rate
of about 27% during FY78-82. Based on experience under similar conditions in
other countries, the forecast is conservative.



- 9- 
Sector Objectives and TOT's FY78-82 Program
28.       Considering the present state of development and the financial
constraints, TOT has, with Bank encouragement, set itself the following
long-term objectives for development of telephone services in Thailand by
1990: (a) telephone densities of 25.0 in Bangkok and 2.0 in the rest of the
country to achieve an overall density of 5.1 in Thailand; and (b) all villages
and towns with population of 2,000 and over to have access to telephone
services. The sector objectives are reasonable and capable of achievement.
After some adjustments to the original program, the current program was
approved by the Government in May 1978 with an estimated cost of $673 million
including foreign costs of $336 million.
Sector Fragmentation
29.       Due to TOT's financial inability to provide adequate countrywide
service, many government agencies and private concerns have established their
own private radio networks. This has led to diseconomies and high-cost
technical solutions for development of national telecommunications facilities.
The Government has appointed an expert to regulate radio frequencies and a
committee to regulate future licensing of private networks. Under the
proposed project, the Government will, by December 31, 1980, restrict licen-
sing of new private networks where the needs of public and private agencies
can reasonably be met by TOT, and impose license fees for private radio
systems to discourage the use of the limited radio frequencies for private
networks. This should also encourage use of public facilities rather than
independent networks (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Bank's Role in the Sector
30.       The Bank has helped finance two telecommunications projects in
Thailand (para. 22). The projects financed by these loans provided for
rehabilitation and expansion of the domestic telephone network, improving
quality of service, introduction of automatic subscriber trunk dialling (STD)
service for long-distance calls and improving access to service. Commencement
of the first project was delayed by nearly two years due to the political
situation and delays in arranging co-financing. Total and foreign costs
escalated by about $85 million and $31 million, respectively. For the Bank-
financed items, the project is maintaining the new schedule and $36 million
(97%) of the Bank loan has been committed. The project is expected to be
completed in September 1979. The second project is currently at the procure-
ment stage. However, procurement of the long-distance equipment financed
under a bilateral credit has been delayed due to a controversy within the
Government over selection of the supplier. Project completion is now expected
by September 1980, about nine months behind schedule, and improvements to STD
will now be completed by mid-1979. The amount of $13 million (50%) of the Bank
loan has been committed and the balance is expected to be committed in 1978.
31.       The Bank's assistance to the sector since 1972 has enabled higher
levels of investments than would otherwise have been possible. Such invest-
ments, however, have proven short of requirements, resulting in low per capita
availability of telephones and in large segments of the population being



- 10 -
still without access to telephone service. Nevertheless, equally important
has been the Bank's contribution towards steady institutional reforms within
TOT such as internal reorganization, improvements in methods and procedures
for construction and maintenance of physical assets, improvements in accounting
and budgeting systems, rationalization of tariffs, reduction of accounts
receivable from Government, etc. These gains have not only brought about more
efficient use of the investments but improved TOT's managerial, technical and
financial performance. These gains also need to be consolidated during the
proposed project and the Bank's continued participation in the sector, besides
meeting part of the foreign costs of development, would further assist TOT in
its endeavors to achieve the sector objectives (para. 28), improve access to
service in rural areas, further strengthen its organization through institu-
tional improvements (para. 41), and raise tariffs for maintaining its financial
viability and providing an adequate level of internal funding of its capital
expenditure (paras. 43-46). The Bank would also be able to guide TOT towards
correct decisions on procurement at a time of rapid technological changes and
in undertaking the Economic Study of Telecommunications in Thailand which
would enable both TOT and the Government to improve the quality of investment
decisions.
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
History
32.       In 1976, TOT drew up a two-phased program of development of telephone
services in Thailand up to 1984 - Phase I incorporating the proposed third
project for FY77-82 and Phase II for FY79-84. This program was approved
by the Government in September, 1977. On review, the Bank felt that: (a) the
rate of growth under the program was very low and failed to deal adequately
with the problem of rising level of demand; (b) quality of service needed
substantial improvement; (c) provisions for improving access to rural areas
were inadequate; and (d) the financial performance of TOT based on current
tariffs would be unsatisfactory throughout the program period.  On the Bank's
recommendation, TOT enlarged the scope of Phase I to provide for a higher
rate of growth, improve services, and provide access to service to more rural
areas.  To finance the increased development costs and provide for a higher
level of internal funding, TOT agreed to propose to the Government an increase
in telephone tariffs. Because of these changes and the need for government
approval of the enlarged program and tariff proposals, TOT rescheduled the
two phases of the development program as Phase I: FY78-82 comprising the
proposed project and, with some overlap, Phase II: FY80-84 for future works.
The project was appraised in October/ November 1977; a post appraisal mission
visited Thailand in March, 1978 to agree revised financial data and to
prepare new forecast financial statements. The revised program together with
increases in telephone charges was finally approved by the Government in May,
1978. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 31 to June 5, 1978. The
Thai delegation was led by H.E. Khun Sukho Suwansiri, Charge d'Affairs a.i.,
and Minister Plenipotentiary, Embassy of Thailand, assisted by Khun Sudhibhan
Nimmanhaemin of the Ministry of Finance and Khun Manas Leeviraphan and Khun
Vichai Panyadilok representing the Telephone Organization of Thailand.



Project Description
33.       The project is designed to further sector objectives and provides
for a self-contained, balanced and integrated development of domestic tele-
phone services. Access to public pay telephones will be significantly
increased in Bangkok. In rural areas 235 out of 524 currently unserved
rural districts will be connected to long-distance telephone service for
the first time, which will provide more convenient telephone access to about
13 million rural populatiLon. The project includes installation of (a)
about 185,000 lines (140,000 in Bangkok and 45,000 in the provinces) of local
exchange equipment with associated cables and subscribers' plant for connecting
about 170,000 new subscr:ibers (129,500 in Bangkok and 40,500 in provinces)
and about 4,500 public call offices in Bangkok and 1,500 in the provinces;
(b) about 3,000 lines of local exchange equipment to replace old equipment
and mobile exchanges in ]Bangkok; (c) about 13,000 lines in seven existing
tandem exchanges in Bangkok for inter-exchange traffic; (d) about 15,000 lines
(8,500 in Bangkok and 6,500 in the provinces) in existing trunk automatic
exchanges for Subscriber Trunk Dialling (STD) traffic; (e) microwave radio
systems on two new routes and upgrading, replacement and addition of microwave
radio equipment on 12 existing routes and adding 12,500 channel ends; (f)
about 200 UHF and other transmission systems and station equipment for about
210 long-distance call offices for extension of service to rural areas now
without service; (g) vehicles, civil works and other facilities for imple-
menting the project. Details are given in the report entitled "Thailand -
Appraisal of the Third Telecommunications Project" (No. 1895-TH, dated
August 17, 1978) which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Annex III of this report incorporates key dates, implementation
action and the special conditions for the project.
Project Costs and Financig
34.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about $307 million equivalent and has a foreign exchange component of about
$180 million or about 59% of total cost. The proposed Bank loan of $90 million
(50% of foreign costs) would finance the following items: switching equipment
($31 million); cables and outside plant ($15 million); subscriber's plant ($5 mil-
lion); transmission equipment ($18 million); station equipment for rural long-
distance links ($3 million); vehicles ($1 million); and contingencies. The cost
estimates are based on prices paid by TOT in recent contracts and updated to
mid-1977. Of the balance of foreign exchange costs ($90 million), OECF loaned
$22 million in February 1978 (including $2 million equivalent to cover local
costs) on a term of 20 years including 7-1/2 years grace with interest at 3.5%;
a further $40 million loan from OECF on similar terms but with interest at 5%
will be finalized by March 31, 1979. Commercial Bank financing of $30 million
is being arranged; likely conditions of commercial loans being a term of about
7-10 years, including about 5 years grace, with interest rates comparing favor-
ably with prevailing LIBOR rates. These funds are required to finance works
under FY80-84 program and, therefore, the commercial banks loans will be nego-
tiated as required. A provision for cross-effectiveness of the second OECF and
commercial banks loans has not been made as funds will only be needed after
the effectiveness of the proposed loan. However, provision has been made for
consultation with the Bank and suspension of the proposed loan (Sections 6.01
and 6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The local costs of the project ($127 mil-
lion equivalent) will be financed by TOT except for $2 million equivalent agreed



- 12 -
to be financed by the OECF loan and $5 million equivalent through a Government
loan on a term of 10 years including 5 years grace and with interest at 8%.
Contingencies
35.       The provisions for equipment and civil works are based on detailed
designs and engineering. Also, the continuous and dispersed nature of telephone
development with simultaneous installations at a very large number of locations
allows adequate flexibility for adjustments as unforeseen additional require-
ments at some points are compensated by unexpected reductions at others. Hence,
a physical contingency provision at 2% of annual local and foreign base costs
is considered adequate. Telecommunications equipment contracts are normally
fixed price contracts. To cover possible increases in price up to the date
of contract for international procurement, a price contingency of $26.9 mil-
lion equivalent to about 17.6% of base foreign costs plus physical contingency
has been included. To cover likely increases in local costs due to increase
in wages and costs of civil works, a price contingency of $23.0 million, equiva-
lent to 19.7% of base local costs plus physical contingency, has been included.
Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT)
36.       TOT is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors which lays
down broad policies. The Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Communications,
is the Chairman. The Managing Director has full responsibility and adequate
authority for day-to-day operations. TOT operates on commercial lines but,
like most state enterprises, its investment plans, capital budget and
tariffs for telephone services are subject to government approval. Consul-
tants appointed in 1973 under Loan 864-TH will continue to assist TOT until
1979 in internal reorganization including changes in the accounting, budgeting
and stores inventory systems, in improvements in plant construction and
maintenance procedures, and in implementation of its expansion programs.
TOT's current organization is sound and its management effective. Further
institutional improvements would help strengthen TOT's decision-making
process and performance (para. 41).
37.       Staff.  TOT currently has a staff of about 9,500 which works out
to about 26 per 1,000 telephones, less than in many other developing
countries. By 1982, the number of staff would increase to about 11,800, but
the ratio of staff per 1,000 telephones would have improved to 15 through
increased productivity, economies of scale due to increased size of unit
installations and improved organization for construction and operation. TOT
has no difficulty in recruiting staff and staff turnover is negligible.
38.       Training.  TOT has at present a central training center in Bangkok
for engineering and vocational training of new staff and in-service training
of existing staff in new techniques and procedures. For future additional
training needs, TOT proposes to establish four regional training centers for
vocational training of lower categories of staff who are usually recruited
and employed on a regional basis.
Project Implementation
39.       The tempo of development under the proposed project will be appre-
ciably higher than under the previous projects, in terms of both physical
installations and investments. Due to the increased level of development and



- 13 -
also the effect of the ongoing projects, the average annual investment is
expected to increase from $22.5 million during FY72-77 to $135 million in
FY78-82, an increase of 487%. During the same period, average number of new
lines connected per year is expected to increase from 20,800 to about 64,000,
an increase of 207%. TOT staff is sufficiently experienced to implement the
project, prepare engineering designs, technical specifications and bid
documents, evaluate bids, and prepare contracts. All installations would
be carried out by TOT staff but with suppliers' supervision for any new or
sophisticated design of switching equipment. The major installations under
the proposed third project will commence in FY80 by which time installations
under the earlier projects would have been completed. The proposed project is
expected to be completed by September 30, 1982 and no unusual problems or
delays are anticipated in project execution.
Consultants
40.       The Swedish Telecommunications Consultants AB (SWEDTEL), financed
by the Bank under Loan 864-TH, have been assisting TOT as consultants since
January 1973. They have advised on reorganization within TOT, given engine-
ering assistance in improving plant maintenance and operation, organization of
installations, preparation of technical specifications, and tender evalua-
tions. They have also recommended changes in accounting, budgeting and
stores inventory systems which are under implementation. Their performance
to date has been satisfactory. The Bank agrees with the assessment that TOT
has now developed adequate internal capability and will not need further
assistance of the consultants after the expiry of their current contract in
1979.
Institutional Aspects
41.       In order to strengthen further TOT's managerial and operational
performance, the institutional and procedural improvements agreed to be
implemented under the project are:
(a)  Economic Study of the Telecommunications Sector:  From January 1979,
TOT will prepare, in consultation with the Bank, terms of reference
and commence work on a study to estimate the incremental cost of
different types of telecommunications usage and the incidence of its
benefits, and examine the possibilities for cross subsidization to
extend service to new areas. The study will contribute to a better
definition of sector objectives and investment decisions towards
telecommunications development in the 1980s (Section 4.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement);
(b)  Fundamental Planning Unit:  By September 30, 1979, TOT will set up
and thereafter maintain as a part of its organizational structure,
a fundamental planning unit to: assess the long-term (10 to 20
years) telecommunications needs of the country and set sector
development objectives and priorities in consultation with other
government agencies and private national organizations; study latest
technology in telecommunications and determine modifications, if
any, necessary to meet needs peculiar to Thailand; assess likely
trends in development and operating costs to devise short-term
(three to five years) plans; estimate requirements of material,



- 14 -
financial and manpower resources for each plan; examine the adequacy
of tariffs to generate the required funds; propose changes, if any,
with their time schedules, in the organizational structure and
functions within TOT (such as decentralization of detailed planning,
plant engineering and construction to field units, establishment of
a research and development unit, etc.); consider justificaton and
basis for domestic manufacture for telecommunications facilities,
etc. (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c) Management Information System: TOT will develop an adequate manage-
ment information system to provide the top management with continuous
and adequate data on the technical and financial performances of the
various services, trends in expenditures and revenues, progress on
works, incoming new demands, and data on other parameters which
would enable the management to take timely decisions on investments
and priorities of development and on remedial measures to rectify
deficiencies. TOT has the capability of designing, implementing and
operating the management information system without external assist-
ance and will institute the system by September 30, 1979 (Section
4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d) Official Waiting Lists: Given the difficulties in forecasting the
demand for telephones even in areas currently served, to ensure more
accurate forecasts of demand and equitable distribution of resources,
TOT has agreed to establish by March 31, 1979, and thereafter maintain
official waiting lists of potential telephone subscribers for all
areas, including those without service at present (Section 4.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement); TOT will also review the need to establish
"priority" and "nonpriority" waiting lists in Bangkok and reserve an
adequate percentage of system capacity for applicants in each category.
Applicants under priority listing would be required to purchase
subscriber bonds of Baht 30,000 and the rest, bonds of Baht 10,000
(see para. 45);
(e) Procedures for Connecting New Telephones: At present, TOT calls for
applications from potential subscribers through newspaper advertise-
ments after the basic exchange and cable facilities are commissioned.
During the several weeks it takes to process the applications and to
complete the wiring and installation of telephones at subscribers'
premises, the installed exchange and cable facilities remain idle.
This results in loss of revenue. Until such time as waiting lists
are available for each exchange, TOT will advertise in advance for
applications for service and review the pending applications so that
it can complete the administrative formalities and technical instal-
lations and give service to new subscribers simultaneously with the
commissioning of the additional local exchange and/or cable facilities,
or immediately thereafter. TOT has agreed to implement the above
procedures by March 31, 1979 (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment); and
(f) Billing System: While TOT's billing system is computerized and
satisfactory, the present system of house-to-house bill collection
through bill collectors is inefficient and inadequate to cope with



- 15 -
the requirements of an expanded network. TOT has agreed to evaluate
alternatives with a view to devise a new system, satisfactory to the
Bank, and adopt and initiate by October 1, 1980, a progressive
changeover to the new system of bill collection so as to complete
the changeover by September 30, 1982 (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
TOT's Past Financial Position
42.       TOT's financial performance in recent years has been satisfactory
and its present financial position is sound. The financial results have
generally been in line with those forecast during appraisal of the second
project. Due to reduced revenues caused by delays in the execution of the
program, TOT's financial rate of return in FY75 was 9.1% which was below the
covenanted 10% but, since then, increased earnings have enabled the rate of
return to rise above 10%. During FY76 and FY77, TOT was able to fund internally
about 34% of the total investment requirements. In FY77, the debt/equity
ratio was 46/54 and the current ratio 2.7.
Revaluation of Assets
43.       TOT's official financial statements are published with assets valued
at historical costs. During negotiations, TOT agreed that (a) commencing
June 30, 1979, it will establish and thereafter maintain an assets register
set up on the basis of appropriate techniques, satisfactory to the Bank, for
classification of assets and determination of asset lives; and (b) it will
study methods of revaluation and for the purpose of setting tariffs commencing
with fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, 1979, and thereafter, calculate the rate of
return based on assets revalued in accordance with methods satisfactory to the
Bank (Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Tariffs and Financial Forecasts FY78-82
44.       Until July, 1978, telephone charges in Thailand had not been signifi-
cantly increased for 23 years although the free call allowance was eliminated
in 1975 with rentals being reduced to compensate for this. Tariffs for
government subscribers, which had been substantially lower, were also brought
on a par with general tariffs. Since late 1976, new subscribers have been
required, before being connected to the service, to purchase Subscriber Bonds.
In Bangkok, applicants pay Baht 30,000 or Baht 10,000 depending upon whether
service is required within three months or later; in the provinces, the
subscription rate is Baht 3,000 and Baht 1,000 for exchanges above and below
1,000 lines, respectively.
45.       Domestic telephone services in Thailand have been developing without
any substantial government budget suport or significant local borrowings for
capital expansion. Consequently, expansion has been tied to TOT's capacity to
generate funds from internal sources and to borrow externally. Internal
funding of capital expenditures declined from 59% in FY74 to 21% in FY76
causing the debt/equity ratio to increase from 22/78 in FY74 to 46/54 in
FY77, a satisfactory result considering the increased capital expenditure over
the period. The substantially higher rate of expansion during the proposed
project requires an increase in the level of internally generated funds so



- 16 -
that TOT can continue to maintain a prudent financial positioni. TOT increased
tariffs in July, 1978 so that revenues would be adequate to meet 30% of the
proposed investment expenditures during FY78-82 and generate a satisfactory
rate of return. The local call charge increased from Baht 1 to Baht 1.50.
Further tariff increases are scheduled for FY80, when local call charges as
well as STD rates will be increased.
46.        Analysis of TOT's forecast financial position indicates that existing
tariffs and those planned for FY80 will meet TOT's past obligations and funding
requirements for the project period. The financial performance of TOT and its
financial position at the end of the project period are expected to be satis-
factory. The forecast financial statements are based on a Bank lending rate
of 7.45%. However, the effect of not using the current rate of 7.90% is very
minor and does not materially affect the financial forecasts or the financial
performance indicators which have been used to justify the project. The
proposed tariff increases, higher operating efficiency, increased revenues due
to subscribers gradually taking full advantage of the expanded network (especi-
ally through subscriber trunk dialing), and economies of scale in the construc-
tion program will enable TOT to increase the internal funding of an increasing
capital expenditure. During the project period TOT will likely continue to
pay a 9% bonus to its employees and also make remittances to government from
FY80 onwards of about 30% of net profits (an estimated $61 million). TOT is
initially required to earn a minimum rate of return of 10% on revalued assets
and maintain a debt service coverage not less than 1.5 times (Sections 5.06
and 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). Nevertheless, the financial forecasts
indicate that a minimum rate of return of 11% on revalued assets would be
maintained during FY78-82; further, the operating ratio would be about 66%,
debt/equity ratio between 60/40 and 65/35, and debt service coverage not less
than 2.0.
Accounts Receivable
47.       In accordance with a covenant under the Guarantee Agreement 1253-TH,
the Government took steps to establish the nature and cause of accumulated
past accounts of government departments and agencies and then issued directives
for making budget provisions to settle such accounts by September 30, 1983, as
well as settling all new telephone accounts on a current basis. The progress
of the settlement of the past accounts receivable will be monitored through
normal reporting requirements for the project (Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
48.       TOT's budgetary system is not fully integrated with the accounting
system, and requires a proper chart of accounts and works accounting procedure.
TOT is now implementing changes in the accounting system recommended by the
consultants, which are satisfactory. The present auditing arrangements
by the National Audit Council as laid out in previous loan agreements are
satisfactory and would continue under the proposed loan (Section 5.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursemernts
49.       All procurement under the proposed loan will be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group's "Guidelines for
Procurement." A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if
lower, will be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Off-the-shelf items to meelt urgent requirements, costing less than $10,000
each, will be purchased through normal government procurement procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements will be made at the rate
of 100% against the foreign exchange costs of directly imported items, or the
ex-factory cost for items of local manufacture when awards are won under
international competitive bids, or 65% of total expenditure on items procured
locally. It is expected that disbursements will be completed by December 1982.
Benefits
50.       In Thailand, lack of swift and reliable communications is becoming a
bottleneck as the Government increases investments in agriculture, industry and
electricity in rural areas. Because of the lack of an adequate public telecom-
munications network, a large number of private VHF communication networks have
been installed in the provinces.  From a national resource point of view, such
fragmentation of communications facilities is a relatively inflexible and high
cost solution.
51.       Bangkok.  Currently, only 59% of the identified demand for telephones
has been met in Bangkok, which is the hub of the communications network in
Thailand. This low level of satisfied demand creates service problems and
thwarts business and government communications both within the metropolitan
area and with the rest of the country since it is difficult to call into the
Bangkok network during business hours. The project, which will add 140,000
lines in Bangkok will alleviate this pressure somewhat, thereby providing
better communications both to urban business sectors such as the service
industry, which is highly dependent on telephone communications and which is
Thailand's fastest growing employment sector, and to the provinces. Also, to
the extent that good telephone communications is a substitute for face-to-face
communication, the additional lines in Bangkok should slow the growth of vehicle
traffic congestion and petroleum consumption and reduce atmospheric pollution.
52.       Provincial Areas;.  In the provinces, installation of 44,800 lines
will provide more convenient telephone access to the rural population. An
additional 235 out of the 524 currently unserved amphurs will receive some
form of telephone service, 25 through new exchanges and 210 through rural
long-distance call offices. Improved telephone access will also promote the
Government's goals of stimulating economic development in the rural areas,
encouraging administrative decentralization, the essential social services,
and a reduction of the transport-related costs of projects in priority sectors.
In particular, the provision of services related to health and welfare in
rural areas involves, in many cases, use of staff with limited expertise who
obtain direction and advice over the telephone from more qualified personnel
at main centers.



- 18 -
53.       Least Cost Solution.  Given TOT's existing network and the fact
that the proliferation of private networks has virtually exhausted existing
VHF radio frequencies, the dimensioning and timing of the works under the
program, of which the Bank project is an integral part, are based on engineer-
ing studies designed to determine the least cost technical means for improving
service to existing subscribers, partially meeting new demands, and expanding
service into some of the areas now without service.
54.       Return on Investment.  A rate of return based on willingness of
consumers to pay proposed tariffs is an underestimate of benefits since, among
other things, it does not include the consumer surplus which subscribers and
other callers receive. In Bangkok, an estimate of a portion of this consumer
surplus was made, however, by taking into account the apartment and office rent
differentials which some consumers now pay in order to have a telephone.
Accounting for these observed rent differential payments in Bangkok, the
quantifiable economic rate of return on the Program is approximately 21%.
55.       Benefits are also underestimated because, while the costs included
in calculating the internal rate of return are those for extending and upgrad-
ing the network and providing facilities in the newly served rural areas now,
the available capacity of various components of equipment will only be fully
utilized when additional investment is made in the future. Thus, the costs
incurred during the FY78-82 period will generate additional untabulated
benefits during the period following FY82.
56.       Distribution of Benefits.  Internal cash based on the proposed
higher tariffs will finance 30% of TOT's FY78-82 expansion program and provide
the Government with remittances to Treasury (para. 46). In effect, from FY80,
telephone tariffs would once more become an administratively simple form of
taxation which will generate for the Government the local currency equivalent
of $61 million over the years FY80 to FY82. In addition, TOT will pay about
$100 million as duties on imported plant and equipment. The revenue accruing
to Government can be used in other national priority development sectors, or
allocated back to the telecommunications sector for more rapid expansion in
provincial areas. If it is used for programs primarily impacting on the
general population, the telephone tariff tax, in addition to mobilizing
domestic resources, is likely to have favorable income distribution impli-
cations.
57.       With regard to a direct impact on low income population, the Program
is designed to provide significantly increased telephone access to rural
dwellers. In Bangkok, lower income population will be provided more convenient
access through public pay telephones which will be increased from the current
one per 2,880 people to one per 525 people by the end of the program period.
Thus, a more equitable distribution of telephone access will be achieved under
the program. Finally, the differential in the price of Subscriber Bonds between
Bangkok and the provinces (para. 44) allows lower income rural dwellers to
acquire an individual telephone much more cheaply than their higher income
metropolitan counterparts.



- 19 -
Risks
58.       The project objectives are reasonable and capable of achievement.
With TOT's past experience and current performance, no problems or delays are
expected in project execution. In spite of an increase of 120% in local
network capacity under the project, by 1982, only about 67% of the total
demand for telephones would have been met. With about 33% of the total
demand in 1982 still unsatisfied the risk of building up excess capacity in
local networks is negligible. If forecast growth of 27% p.a. in long-distance
traffic is not realized, any excess provision in long-distance facilities
would be used up by additional traffic generated through future expansion of
the local networks.
Ecology
59.       The project would have no adverse ecological effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Telephone Organization of
Thailand and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Bank, arnd the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. In addition to the features of the draft
Loan and Guarantee Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III, the following feature is of particular interest: The
following event of suspension has been added, namely, the second OECF loan
agreement and the commercial bank loans shall have failed to become effective
by March 31, 1979, provicled, however, that this provision shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for the Project are available from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower (Section 6.01 and 6.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 29, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page 1
THAILAND            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ------------------------------------------------
THAILAND                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      514.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      238.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           PHILIPPINES   KOREA SOUTH   JAPAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     100.0      200.0      410.0               230.0      290.0      2720.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            26.6       36.3       44.1                36.9        32.2       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        52.0       71.0      86.0                123.0      327.0       280.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        112.0     152.0      185.0               472.0       1371.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          47.1       44.3       37.6                44.2        35.0        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           19.B       13.7        9.1                13.2        11.4         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         84.3/a       ..     56.3                 B1.0           ,,        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        49.0                  58.0               55.6         65.0        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  .        3.2        3.1                 3.3         2.6         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        3.1        2.9                3.0          2.3         1.0
URBAN                                  5.1        4.9        4.9                 4.0         6.4         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           12.7       15.0       16.5                27.6        41.2        84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        45.1       44.8       43.7                45.6        42.1        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                        52.9       52.3       53.2                51.6        54.5        68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.0        2.9        3.1                 2.8         3.4         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.9        9.0                 0.9         0.8         0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0/b      1.1 /a     1.1/a               1.5         1.4         0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      405.6      2680.2              320.0      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..       14.0       37.0                 2.0        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        12800.0  16200.0   18500.0                 12400.0    10200.0    53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          82.0       78         76.0                55-0/a      50.4/a      19.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            0.6        1.:        1.0                 7.6/        4.504       19.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             21.8       23.8       14.0                  ..        17.1        14.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             50.9       49.7       42.2               54.0         44.5        37.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.2        6.1        7.6                3 6          7.1         8.8
LOWEST  49% OF  $OUSEHOLDS            14.9       15.9       19.1               11.7         17.7        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP i0% OF OWNERS               ..        ..         ,,                43.0        28.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..        ..         ,                  2.0         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..    8420.0    8380.0                    ..      2110.0       880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             .      3340. 0/c 1960.0/c            3840.0/b   2170. 0/b    240.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1340.0 /d  69O.D -800. 0                   850.0      1900.0-       80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0/e  103.0        107.0                86.0       114.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               43.3ew        ..      50.0                45.0        65.0        76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           8.47e       ..       14.6                22.0        19.0        45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..        ..         ..                 6.6          ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          ..       81.0       86.0              114.0       105.0        100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       8.0       17.0       22.0                50.0        43.0        91.0
YEARS OJF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12,0       12.0                10.0        12.0        12.0
VOCArIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      19.0       24.0       12.0/d               6.0        16.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ,.       79.0       84.0                    -       87.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                                                                       2.7          1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                                                                 76.0        60.0/c       5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                             78                C
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                             63.0/d                         23.0        5
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..       13.0/e       ..                 7.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           6.0       78.0      136.0                72.0       126.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0       5S0         7.0                 8.0         2.0        64.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER ZAP)            23.0      124.0      193.0               235.0       307.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER Cs_)                0.7        1.0        1.3                 2.0         3.5        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON [EVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTIES
Unless otherwise noted, (e.g., GNP per capita and population), data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971,
and for Most Recent Estimate between 1973 and 1976.
* Although Japan's GNP per coyitt is much higher than that of Thailand, Japan ha bean selected as an objective country because Thailand's development
process can reasonably be measured against that of Japan, and Asian country which is highly trade orietned, has moved from an agriculturally based
to an industrially based economy, and in doing so has retained its cultural distinction.
TRAILAND        1960    /a  196465;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 6  and over to total labor force;    /c  1962-63, rural only;    /d  1962;
/I 1961-65 average.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1968;    Ic  Including assistant nurses and mid-
wives;    /d  As percentage of population in Bangkok matropolitan areas;    /a  Other 67 provinces.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Preliminary data, these figures
represent upper limits on incoma received for lover income households, and lowar limits on upper income
groups due to uncorrected under reporting of higher incomes;    /c  Including assistant nurses;    /d  Only
upper secondary divided betwen vocational and academic, lover secondary is unified classes - 849,000 in
lower secondary, 110,000 upper academic, 130,000 in upper vocational.
PHILIPPINES    1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Governmant personnel only.
KOREA REP. OF  1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /'  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /c  Piped water inside.
R13, July 25. 1978
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATOS
Lund Arce (thou kas2)                                                                      Population per nursin  person - Population divided by nusber of practicing
Total    otal surface area comprising land area end inland vaters,                           male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric. - Moat recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or pema-                auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                   Population par hospital bed - Population divided by sumber of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specialized hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP per capita estisatas occurrent market prices,                     rehabilitation cantera;  xcludes  ursing homes and estsbliahments for
calculated by same conversion onthod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bais);                   custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1977 data.                                                               Per caPita supply of calories (% of requires-nte) - Computed frm  energy
equivaleot of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Puulation and vital statistics                                                              available supplies comprise domestic production, Imports less exporta, ad
Population (nid-vear million) - As of July first:  if not available, verage                  chengas in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two and-year estioates; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data,                                      In fond processing and losss in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health ronaid-
Pupulation density - per sqeure kmo - Mid-year population per square kilometer               ering environmental temperature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hecttros) of total area.                                                             population, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Population density - per square ks of agric. land - Computed as above for                  Per capita supply of protein (gras por day) - Protein content of per capita
agriculturs1 land oly.                                                                     net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for all cosoatries established by USDA Economsic Research Servic.a
Vital statistics                                                                             provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grats of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand, verage - Annuel live birthb  per thousand of                  20 grape  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grama should be animal
mid-ycar population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 snd 1970,                 protein; these standards are loemr than those of 75 grams of total protein
and five-ye-r average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                             and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand., average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year             in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
ycaraverage g .ding in 1975 for most repent estimate,                                      derived from animals and pulses in gr   per day.
Infant nortality rate (/thou) - Annual death. of infants under one year of age             Death rate (/thou) axes 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                  years, to children in this age group; euggueted as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yr.) - Average number of years of life remaining at                malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries                                                                            Education
Cpoo-  reproductinr rte - xv-rage-numbr of live daughters a woman will bear                Adiuated enrollment ratio - priarcy school - Enrollment of a11 ageS  as par-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                  centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; u-ua 1y fiv-yea  averags  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countrieu_                                                                  universal education, enrollment may exceed 1007. since some pupils are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 snd 1970-75.                                             Adjusted enrollment ratio - seamondary school - Computed as shove; secondary
PoPulation oroeth rate (7) - urban - Computed like groth rate of total                       education requires at least four years of approved primry instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparobility of               provides general, vocational or tescher training inatructions for pupils
data among countria.                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded,
Urban population (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Years of schooling provided (first and second lavels) - Total years of
definitionu of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countris.                achooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely excluded.
Axge structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),               vocational enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
and retired (65 yeses and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                     technical, induatrial or other programs which operate independently or as
Age dpendenoy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to thase                  departments of secondary in titutions.
of agoe 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (X) - Literate adults (able to read and write) aa per-
Economic depe.dency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65  nd over to                  centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
amaiky planning - acceptors (cumulative, thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors            H."oins
of birth-control devices under auspices of sational fmily plamaing progr-                Parsons per room  (urban) - Average nober of persons per room in occupied
since inception.                                                                           conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings *xclude nom-parm-neot
Family planning - usere (7. of married women) - Percentages of married women of              structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 married             Occupied dwellinas without piped water  Ol) - Occupied conventional dwellings
wonen in same age goup.                                                                    in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of a11 occupied dwellings.
Employment                                                                                 Access to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                  electricity in living qurters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forcee and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitins                 rural er as.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                 Rural dwellinxs connected to electricity C%) - Computed as above for rural
Labor farce in agriculture (%) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,             dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unmployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined a  persona who                cor umption
are able and willing to take    job, out of a job on a given day, remained out           Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All typee of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
weak; ny not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                  in countries and in years when registration of radio sets  as in  ffect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment offica  tatitics, sample                data for recent years may not bh  cmprable sintc  most countries abolished
surveys, compulsary unemployment insurnce,                                                 licening.
Pasenser cars (par thou POp) - Passen.gr cars compris  mator cars seating
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                   lees than eight person,; exclude  mbulances, hearses and military
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/vr par cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, comercial,
public and priwtce electricity is kilowatt hours pr capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Pernentegee of land owned by wealthiest 10%                 based en production data, without allownce for losses in grids but allow-
and pooreat 107 of land owners.                                                            ing for imports and eperts of electricity.
Newprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita snnual consumption in kilogrem,
Health and Nutrition                                                                         estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Population  per phyaician - Popultion divided by number of practicing
phyaicoaus qualified from a edir-l achool at university level.



ANiNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVSLOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                              Projected                  Growth rates (Z)               1975 share
1965      1970       1974       1975      1976/L      1977       1985    1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  1985-90  of GOP (Z)
A.  National Accounts
(Million USS$ at 1975 prices)
1.  Gross domaestic product               7,045.8  10,627.8  13,827.7  14,590.0  15,503.0  16,619.3  27,494.0             7.6       6.7      6.5        6.5       100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade               -84.5      1.37.3      593.3         -      -46.6    -706.2    -919.2          -         -         -         -           -
3.  Gross domestic income                 6,961.3  10,765.1  14,421.0  14,590.0  15,456.4  15,913.1  26,574.8             7.7      4.4        6.6       6.2       100.0
4.  Imports                               1,704.2   3,035.1   3,661.7   3,557.1   3,877.3   4,258.7   6,765.0             7.6       9.4       6.0       6.2        24.4
5.  ixports - volume                      1,619.1   2,215.7   2,710.3   2,852.3   3,478.2   4,118.5   6,845.4             5.8      20.2       6.6       7.5        19.5
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT             1,534.5   2,353.D   3.303.7   2,852.3   3,431.7   3,381.3   5,926.2            6.4       8.9       7.3       6.4        19.5
7.  Resource gap - adjusted for TOT          169.7     682.0      358.0      704.8      445.6      877.4       838.8       -         -         -         -           -
8.  Tot-l consueption                     5,733.6   8,404.1  11,283.6  11,384.8  11,737.0  12,366.7  20,238.9             7.1       4.2       6.4       6.1        76.0
9.  Investment                             1,397.4   3,043.2   3,495.4   3,910.0   4,211.6   4,423.8   7,174.7    10.8              6.4       6.2       6.4        26.8
10.  Domestic savings adjusted for TOT  1,227.7   2,361.0   3,137.4   3,205.2   3,719.0   3,546.4   6,335.9    10.1                  5.2       7.5       6.5        22.0
11.  GDP at current US$                    4,052.9   6,543.3  13,450.0  14,590.0  16,199.0  18,796.2  53,533.2    13.7              13.5      14.0      13.8
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP)
1.  Agriculture                               0.343      C.304     0.276      0.273      0.265      0.263      0.218
2.  lndustry                                  0.230      0.251      0.273     0.275      0.279      0.285      0.320
3.  Services                                  0.427     0.445       0.451     0.452      0.456      0.452      0.462
C. Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  Export price index                         43.6       49.3      113.8     100.0       101.9       90.2      169.7      8.7     -5.0        8.2       5.8
2.  Import price index                         46.0       46.4       93.4      100.0      103.2      109.9      188.0      8.1       4.8       7.0       6.8
3.  Terms of trade index                       94.8      106.2      121.9      100.0      98.7       82.1        86.6     0.5      -9.4        0.7     -1.0
4.  GDP deflator (US$3                         57.5       61.6       97.3      100.0      104.8      108.8      187.5      5.7       4.3       7.0       8.7
5.  Annual average exchange rate               20.8       20.8       20.0       20.0       20.0
D.  Selected Indicators                         1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                    3.13      4.1.6     3.82      3.78
2.  import elasticity                        1.00     1.40      0.92      0.96
3.  Average national savings rate           0.21      0.22      0.23      0.23
4.  Marginal national savings rate          0.21      0.21      0.23      0.23
5.  Imports/GDP                             0.25      0.25      0.25      0.25
6.  Investment/GDP                          0.26      0.26      0.26      0.26
7.  Resource gap/GDP                        0.03      0.0)4     0.02      0.01
Value added /b                         Lbor force /c                        V.A. per vorker _/b  c
E.  Outout. Labor Force end Productieitv in 1975                 US$ million               1               Millton              2                 USS             Z of average
1.  Agriculture                                                  4,559              31.3               13.4               75.7               340                  41.5
2.  Industry                                                     4,442              30.4                1,4                7.9             3,170                 356.7
3.  Services                                                      5,588             38.3                2.9               16.4              1,930                235.4
Total/average                                             14_589             100.0               17.7             100.0                820                 IO0.0
F.  Public Finance (2 of GDP)                    1965       1970       1974       1975      1976        1977/c
e(Central Government)
1.  Current revenue                            13.5       13.8       14.5       13.6       13.4
2.  Tax revenue                                12.3       12.5       13.5       12.0       12.1
3.  Current expenditures                       10.5       12.6       10.7       12.1       13.0
4.  Budgetary savings                           2.9        1.2        3.7        1.5        0.4
5.  Total public investment                     6.5        7.7        3.8        4.9        5.3
C.  Fuel Imoorts (Current US$ millions)            65.0       112.0     628.6      711.7      833.7      923.0
(X of total imports incl. NFS)                  8.3        8.0       18.4       20.0       21.1       19.7
La Preliminary.
/b At current market prices.
/c Estimate.



AM"it I
P.o 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 90UT8   AS IOTAOCE. DEBT AND CRiflttotMINEBS
1971        1972        1973        974         1975       19765L       1977        1995          [990
6u-,rc of Balance oif Poenet
Uoporta ((ncl. dISg NF1)                                   [.2L0.0    1,532.0    2,094.7       2,095.8    2,B51.4    3,560.4    3,714.9    11,618.4    22,065.8
peoria (inclodhng OPO)                                    [,429.6    1,617.0    [.258.5    5,42.2    3,557.1    3,990.3    4,6bO.3    12,718.2    23,771.6
Oeource baloon                                              _219.6       -95.0      -173.6      -334.4      -705.7      -430.1      -965.4    -1,099.8   _-,705.6
bot factor oerrice iDtoo_                                      1.4       -[5.8       -20.8        -0.7         5.6       -42.4       -25.0       -567.8    -1,341.8
Not  iccrent popanre                                        2d.0        10.0         7.0        36.0        [9.0        26.1        41.6       -375.3       -b0i.d
Of ohich on poblic  t 4 LT loaI.                        -[8.6       -19.9       -25.1        -28.1       '34.5       -46.7       -56.5       -308.7       -553.L
Direct  Inoetm--t loco-                                    -270       -26.0        -28.0       -37.0       -64.0       648.5       -66.6       -192.5       -530.0
Worker. renttconrea  [cat)                                                -           -           -           -           -           --
Cocteot tcuoefce (retO)                                       43.5        53.5       145.5       Z4S.9        00.7        Z3.2       5.2          100.0        300.0
faloeco on current accoont                                  -174.7       -51.3       -48.9       -89.2      -618.4      -449.3      -940.4    -1,567.6    -2.747.7
Prroato direct Oovoet_nn                                      39.0        56.0        67.0       L37.0        65.0        66.3       100.0         450.0      1,200.0
Grurc  & gra Lt-Ok.e floove-
Public Y A LT ....
Di.bureeneota                                               47.9        50.4        69.0        95.9       149.0       241.7       333.4        d27.7      1,183.8
Aa-rtciatioc                                               -21.8      -23.7       -29.8        -32.3       -39.7        43.4       -45.1       -252.5       -398.7
Nit dLebuoaoeeta                                            26.0        26.7        39.2        63.6       110.5       199.3       288.3        575.2         785.0
04chr 8 & ILT loo-
Di.b.r.e.e..a                                              234.0       247.0       179.0       416.0       392.0       360.2       525.0      1,462.9      3,081.6
c-orctictior                                             -176. 0     -167.0      -226.0       -229. 0     -304.0       311.3      -375.0    -1.135.9    -2.324.2
Mat 4daLrenente500                                                      80.0       -47.0       087.0        68.0        4.88       150.0        327.0         757.4
lee of IMFE ceacurceA                                           -           -           -           -           -         77.6          -             -            -
Shorct-er  capital  rane.ctiona                                7.0        33 .0       42.0        63.0       132.0       130.9       100.7        ISO.         200.0
C.pcral tran oction. NE                                       54.5        47.6        60.7       120.6        27.0        -5.6           -         [21.0        273.4
Change In ro.arves (- - i.crooro)                            -12.0      -192.0      -113.0      -492.0       195.0       -75.0       301.4          55.6       -468.3
Net f-eeSl  .nohu.go  mroar  /b lord of period)              777.0       969.0    0.082.0    1,564.0    1,369,0    1.444.0         1,347.8      2,126.4       3,969.9
G7rant and LOar Gonoteenra
Official groota                                                 -           -           -           -           -           -
Total poblic      L T LI I..a.                                61.9       141.4        87.1       436.5       223.4       372.3
7082                                                        27.0        81.0        15.0       142.0        95.0       158.0
IDA                                                           -                      5.0         7.0          - 
orhroltilororal                                             10.0        23.0         6.4        77.2        62.7        92.1
GCvoooeerta                                                 15.6        37.4        24.0       200.5        47.7        22.2
08 ohich centrully ploonod  -oouiaa /                         -           -           -           -           -           -
SOpItlior                                                    1.1          -           -           -           -           _
Fip-DocOo  iratitutioa                                        -           -         06.7         9.7        18.0       300.0
ttoaoroodor IOtor
Gr-ot Ir.-et   of total  co-itn-ot   (0)                      23.3        30.6        47.4       35.4          0.2
Average ictereat (0)                                           6.4         6.0         3.9         5.7         7.6
Aver-g- rturity  (y-ara)                                      19.9        08.9        29.3        25.8        25.2
Medica- ord Lone-Trer ObIt iDlaboraod eric)
Toto1 d.bc cotot-ndig (002 ond of period)                   790.0 3      97.9       906.3    1,160.7    1.293,2    1.606,5
I.cIoding undieborard                                        944.5    0,142.5    01814,8    1,770.0    1.059,2    2.403.7
PublLc debt -errice                                           00.5         3.46      _854.9      -60.4       -75.2       -94.2
Itoerert                                                     -18.6       -09.9       -25.1       -28.1       -34.5       -46.7
Other M 4 LT debt trvice                                    -199.0      0L91.5      -258.7      -298.6      -383.4      -381.4
Total debt  -errco                                          _239.5      -235.1      -313.6      -359.0      -456_6       475.6
Debt Ourdec tX)
DIbt arrvico   uttlo                                          19.8        15.3        I5.0        01.6        16.0        L3.4
Debt . er_ice ratio /                                         22.0        17.0        16.4        12.8        I8.3        05.7
Debt 'e'lice/CGP                                               3.4         3.0         3.0         2.7         3.1          2.9
Public debt oeovice/Goveroant r_'_oue                          4.1         4.0         4.3         3.2         4.3         4.3
Irceroot Dt  total 0D/total t  OD                              5.2         5.l         5.)         5.5         5.6         5.7
Totol debt  DeOrico/total 0D                                  11.3        11.2        12.8        10.9         119         11.5
DOreodo.c. 8 tior for K 4 LT Debt (:)
Gret.  dleb-reaeo-a/ieport l(including NFS)                   19.7        18.3        11.0         15.0        15.2        17.5
Io'll  creo/ -prn   (incluieg 9105                             3.0         5.6        -2.9          4.5         2.4         3.3
Net trofer/orooa dieborea-nc                                  15.0        21.0       -26.4        29.9        15.6        22.7
Elporur- (1)
0000 dlrboreuaoc/gco.  otel dIeborae-nte                       6.9 5      0.1         14.0         6.6          7.6         7.2
Book Grop dieb-rre-et/gro.a  tota  diaboraenrt.                6.9        10.1        14.8          6.8         8.0         8.3
00I0D 0D0/total DOD                                           21.4        21.3        24.1        20.8        20.0         10.6
Ook OrcupD                                                                 210/t3t 008  21.4  00.5  24. 1  20.9  70.3      19.2
II8. debt  -ervica/total debt  -ernice                         8.1         8.2         7.9          7.7         7.0         7.6
EaBk GCo-p debt rorv[oo/cocai debt cev-ice                     8.1         8.2          7.9         7.7         7.0         7.6
Ounerruh Debt (lftborred cr1,)                              Onutoodier 12151/76
(lorteot US5 etlliona)                                    Anuont           0
13ED                                                         298.4        36.3
Dark Group                                                   509.0         37.6
Other _1tilateo-1                                            107.1         03.0
CooeoOa-"Do                                                  248.9        30.3
O' o 1c,  -entr-li  plno-d eco- oea L    .                    -           -
suppli.e                                                      17.0         2.2
Flnonctol inatitoti.ra                                       0i8.6        16.9
BI-da                                                           -            -
Public debt n                                                               -
Total poblio K t  LT deb                                     821.7       100.0
Other public M & LT debt                                     784.0        95.5
Other   A LT debt                                            784.8        95.5
Total public debt (iecludiog oodieb..eed)                  1,606.5       195.5
T-oal M t  LT debt (inoIodiog ondibor.ed)                 2,403.7       292.5
L/L Preloi nery.
/b  Nor foroirooeeona    009 eqoiraloot of Li.o  31.
/c  Incloden CMEA. co.ntriee,  op[.e Republic of Chi.n, North Kore-, Nortb Pilt Na.
/d  I.cloding ret direct io-etnt Locoe.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of July 31, 1978)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                           Less Cancellations
Credit No.   Year    Borrower                  Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-five loans fully disbursed                            388.9       -        -
822-TH        1972       RTG                   Education      15.4       -      8.6
864-TH        1972       TOT                   Telecomm       37.0       -      5.1
870-TH        1972       RTG                   Highways       28.6       -      1.7
369-TH        1973       RTG                   Education          -   19.5      7.4
379-TH        1973       RTG                   Irrigation         -    5.5      0.1
461-TH        1974       RTG                   Irrigation         -    7.0      2.5
977-TH        1974       EGAT                  Power          75.0       -    27.6
992-TH        1974       IFCT                  Industry       12.0       -      1.8
1021-TH       1974       MWWA                  Water          55.0       -    21.4
1149-TH       1975       RTG                   Irrigation    95.0        -    81.0
1198T-TH ISF 1976        RTG                  Rural Dev.    21.0         -    16.7
1199T-TH ISF 1976        RTG                   Livestock       5.0       -      4.8
1243-TH       1976       RTG                   Rubber         50.0       -    45.5
1253-TH       1976       TOT                  Telecomm        26.0       -    14.4
1271-TH       1976       RTG                   Education      31.0       -    28.5
1327-TH       1976       IFCT                  Industry       25.0       -    24.1
1393-TH       1977       RTG                   Agriculture   28.0        -    26.9
1468-TH       1977       RTG                   Irrigation    55.0        -    54.4
1485-TH       1977       EGAT                  Power          50.0       -    46.3
1492-TH       1977       IEA'T                 Industry        4.8       -      4.6
767-TH        1978       RTG                   Population       -      33.1/b 33.1
1519-TH       1978       RTG                   Highways      110.0       -   110.0
1527-TH       1978       PEA                   Power          25.0       -    25.0
1556-TH /a   1978        NHA                   Urban           8.6       -      8.6
S-10 TH /a   1979        NGOT                  Energy          4.9              4.9
Total                                           1,151.2    65.1  605.0
of which has been repaid                        175.5       -
Total now outstanding                             975.7    65.1
Amount sold /c                      68.5
of which has been repaid          34.4           34.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    941.6    65.1
Total undisbursed                                 561.9    43.1
/a Signed but not yet effective.
/b  Of which $3.1 is NORAD grant participation.
_c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of July 31, 1978)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company            Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                0.30       -     0.30
1964   IFCT                     Industry                   -   0.38     0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Materials      18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group        Cement and
Construction
Materials           10.00      -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund              Capital Market
Company Limited                                  -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar             Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing           2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries    2.00       -      2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Materials          -   0.09      0.09
Total gross commitments                        33.13   4.72    37.85
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        20.77   2.56    23.33
Net held by the Corporation                    12.36   2.16    14.52



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of July 31, 1978)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This project involves development of Kasetsart University and
the relocation of certain units to a new campus. Although the technical
assistance and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule,
civil works are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in
furniture and equipment procurement. Delays in civil works are due to:
(a) an initial 15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an
18-month delay in completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in
contracting civil works. The situation of contract awards is improving:
about 90% of the civil works and 50% of equipment packages have been awarded,
and the remaining bid package for civil works ($3.0 million) is in the process
of being awarded. Furniture and the remaining equipment packages will be
contracted in late 1978. Contracted construction is progressing well, and the
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 84 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by 36%. The Government's
request for an extension of the Closing Date is being processed.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed. Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and wealcnesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. The procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially completed and $36.1 mil-
lion of the Loan has been committed. The balance of $0.9 million will be
committed in 1978. About 77% of the local telephone network expansion has
been completed and the balance will be completed by end 1978. Delayed
procurement of long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan
will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979.
Loan No. 1253  Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action has been initiated on all components of the
project. The Loan is expected to be fully committed in FY78. Civil works are
in progress. Local network expansion is expected to be completed as per
schedule by mid-1979 but due to a year's delay in tender award for transmission
equipment under a bilateral loan, the long-distance network expansion for the
project is only expected to be completed by September 1980, nine months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976.  Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns. Despite these difficulties the project is likely to be completed
no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway maintenance
study and feasibility studies for future projects have been completed, and
detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Loan declared effective on June 22, 1978.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is expected to be completed by end July 1978. Construc-
tion has been somewhat delayed because of procurement difficulties for civil
works. However, disbursements are in line with appraisal estimates. Yields
and cropping intensities on the completed parts of the project are roughly
equal to appraisal estimates. A project extension service has been set up and
is operating satisfactorily. Final disbursements are being made.
Credit No. 461  Northeast ]rrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace of construc-
tion, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging progress is beiLng made in developing agricultural extension
services in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million,
or about 96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due
to price inflation being hiLgher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large
part of the increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over
the entire project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has improved due to strengthened project management and organization.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about a
year, prospects are good tlhat the revised schedule can be adhered to. A
contract was recently awarded for the first of four major civil works contracts;
tenders have been received for the second contract; and most of the equipment
for the project is delivered or on order. The on-farm works are proceeding on



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
schedule, with four pilot projects in operation. The consulting services for
the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident staff
and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for monitor-
ing project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established and
the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the Loan, has been completed, and
the next phase is continuing. Work will begin soon on a feasibility study for
the Phitsanulok II Project. Consultants are being selected for the RID
Administration and Organization Study.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. The upland crop component has been
delayed by staffing and organizational problems.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being albly implemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is progressing well; costs remain close to
the appraisal estimate, but disbursements are slightly behind schedule, mainly
due to lengthy procurement procedures. Disbursements are expected to be close
to, or ahead of, the appraisal estimate in 1978. Additional supervisory staff
appointments at district and provincial level will be made and the overall
system of training and visits will be further improved. Proposals for monitor-
ing are being prepared, a project accounting system is being established, and
monthly reports are presented in a timely manner.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1527  The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Loan declared effective on June 7, 1978.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million of
July 28, L978; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Loan signed bul: not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 cu m/day capacity and
transmission tunnels and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metropolitan area through 1982. A complementary project financed
by Asian Development Bank (ADB) includes trunk mains, distribution pipes,
tubewells and purchase of water meters. All contracts of the IBRD project
have been awarded and construction accomplishment, as measured by contractor
earnings, is 43%. Due to delays in the award of contracts, the project
completion will probably be delayed by about 18 months to the last half of
1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's
financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the
water tariffs in line with the increased operating costs, shelved by the
previous Government, have been withheld by the new Government pending general
improvement in water supply.
Loan 1556-TH   Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million of June 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Loan signed but not yet effective.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Loan declared effective on March 24, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Loan declared effective on June 30, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
.
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of about 18 months:
mid 1976 to end 1977.
(b) The project was prepared by TOT.
(c) The Project was first presented to the Bank in September, 1976;
a preappraisal mission visited Thailand in August, 1977.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: October 10, 1977.
(e) Negotiations were held in Washington from May 31 to June 5, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: December, 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action:
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Guarantor has agreed that:
(a) the Government will restrict licensing of new independent private
networks, arrange for all telephone needs of public and private
agencies to be provided, where possible, exclusively by TOT, and
impose a license fee on all private radio systems (para. 29);
(b) the Government will continue with measures established under
Loan Agreement 1253-TH for clearance of past accounts receivable
by TOT from Government, and adopt by September 30, 1979 procedures
to settle outstanding accounts due by the Government and its depart-
ments and agencies so as to settle all such accounts by September 30,
1983 (para. 47).
2.        The Borrower has agreed to:
(a) ensure effectiveness of a loan of $40 million from OECF and commer-
cial bank financing of about $30 million by March 31, 1979 or such
other date as the Bank shall agree (para. 34);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) undertake the ecornomic study of telecommunications in
Thailand (para. 41.); and
(c) maintain tariffs at levels adequate to provide a minimum rate of
return of 10%. From FY80 onwards, the rate of return will be
based on the current value of net fixed assets in operation
(para. 46).






f                                     ~~~~~~~THAILAND
TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND (TOT)
PlMICROWAVE RADIO AND CABLE CARRIER SYSTEMS
-20   B   RM A                         flhiang~.                                WORKS UNDER THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT    20-
__               Ba~~~~~~n P Sok                                                (FY78-82)
Iha. Ban on,
9  OnM., Rak
---t--  B'Pak Thon. Pnao
Chiang Mai4~ Sanaph  K Do MonR.  Nani.
La-lhon.ahU Tan No        haa Nn
Pang Lo                   h Hoa-S., Ton
DanSol                                                                 LAO  PEOPLE'S  DEM. REP.
Loplao   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~9Chiong Khan                Non Khol
LoiSonh ho
S -okhnhl                                N n Bo   n       P Ehga              n Nah  N  ih
v    Tak       Ehinnn        HwagTon                                      BaPoyoggNlTo 
~K EhoK- Ta-   ha Eaa
~, jO~  EanophoongIPhooh.
fHog PMonh-Nao
y                                                                        Rob ~~~~~~n   Solaphom                          gao~~~'phCh..
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Son PhhNoggashnhN.o
Son  BoaDo B      BagPa.       Wn Nob              Kobin Bon
Th.  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .9k.k (PY)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onk
Tahn          nI~hnBago  PIhngn
lPhohn             oBa  o          noogn    oh
o4 tnLDA 41 A N                                                         iDa ~~~~~~~~~RDEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
-12-                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120-
~{iO      /         Tenon  wC   OF rHA~ILAND
Woh.Ba- - aoffaoooo-o'ai
EXINTING MICROWAVE SYSiTEMS                                         0h. '00000 oo~1h,on,nnannecnd
H BOBIER CPS  YBYTMOR U?BOOADeOTO                                  WodBnnOnahoc,ap
BINE EAPACETY                                                    odnnn on neI,oOonooo
MgIgpggoeA5E SYSTBMB0g NJEW ROUTES                                        noofohnoonna
EXISOTINGO CABLE CAEABOBSYTM 
Ranong   Lannggown  ~0      TERMNSAOOB REPEATERSt"DOOMP                      BUA
AL  BRPEATEMSWITHOIT DOggP                           BSA
gB-INTEONATINALBOU0NDABIES                                                 " 
IND A   I                   CHINA
g.,   9  N~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                      3~ BURMA
K N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
ThongSong      .hoaN.KI
n'ono  Eloog  Hoal To   ~     ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~         THAILAND>   o
Kannang  h on~~~~~~~~~~~                              go~~~~                     (DEMOCRATIC)
Ranna om  nakhna  - -                             A,ooto,oonan ~~                MPUCHE
N                                                                                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~aonn  bnNa
-  KIOMETERS                          Baon      Sah  ROK. PoBno la ~b
MALAYSIA 



