CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1620 TH
Loan Agreement
(Third Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
Dated October 4, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1620 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by agreement dated February 24, 1978 (hereinafter
called the First OECF Loan Agreement), the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (hereinafter called OECF) has agreed
to make a loan (hereinafter called the First OECF Loan) to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about
twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000) to assist in the financ-
ing of the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from OECF a further
loan (hereinafter called the Second OECF Loan) in an amount
equivalent to about forty million dollars ($40,000,000) to assist
in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Second OECF Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
(D) by agreement dated February 17, 1978 (hereinafter called
the Local Loan Agreement), the Kingdom of Thailand (hereinafter
called the Guarantor) has agreed to make a loan (hereinafter
called the Local Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount of one hundred million Baht (BahtlOO,000,000) to assist in
the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions therein
set forth;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from a commercial
bank or banks a further loan or loans in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about thirty million dollars ($30,000,000) to
assist in the financing of the project, on  the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement or agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and said commercial bank or banks;
(F) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Guarantee Agreement) between the Guarantor and the Bank, the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower


﻿- 2 -
in respect of the Loan and to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the Project as therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Telephone Organization Act" means the Teleuhone Organi-
zation Act B.E.2497 of the Guarantor pursuant to which the
Borrower has been established, as such Act has been amended by the
Telephone Organization of Thailand Act (No. 2) B.E.2511 of the
Guarantor;
(b) "Development Program" means the "Economic Development
Project 1977-1984", comprising the Borrower's investments being
carried out under a first phase program covering fiscal years 1978
through 1982 and those expected to be carried out under a second
phase program covering fiscal years 1980 through 1984;
(c) "Baht" means the currency of the Guarantor; and
(d) "remittances to the Guarantor's Treasury" means the
remittances established pursuant to the Guarantor's Cabinet
Resolution No. SR05031/V90 of December 7, 1965, as the same may be
amended from time to time.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million
dollars ($90,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1983,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of the Borrower, or
such other person or persons as said Managing Director may desig-
nate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower


﻿-4-
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Bank and the Borrower of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, at all times, manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with sound business, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business and for the execution and operation of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, at all times, operate and maintain
its plant, equipment and other property and promptly make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accoridance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except in the normal course of its business, the Bor-
rower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.03. Before the Borrower shall take any action to
create any subsidiary, the Borrower shall first have satisfied
the Bank that such action would not adversely affect the Project
or the financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1979, or such later date as the Bank may agree, establish
and thereafter maintain as part of its organizational structure a
fundamental planning unit in a manner and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank to undertake, in consultation with the
Guarantor's departments and agencies and other interested parties
concerned with the planning, development or operations of public
telecommunications in Thailand, the study of the long-term (10 to
20 years) development objectives and priorities for the public
telecommunication's sector in Thailand and the determination of
the means and intermediate plans most suitable for the achievement
of said objectives and priorities.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1,
1979, or such later date as the Bank may agree, commence, in
consultation with the Bank, an economic study of the public
telecommunicati,n's sector in Thailand based on terms of reference
acceptable to _ze Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1979, develop and adopt a suitable management information
system designed to provide the Borrower's management with all
such current and adequate technical, financial and other data as
shall be required to enable said management to reach timely and
efficient decisions, particularly as such decisions relate to
investments and priorities for development of domestic telephone
service in Thailand or to remedial measures needed to rectify any
existing or potential deficiencies in the operations of the
Borrower.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1979: (a) establish and thereafter maintain official waiting lists
of potential telephone subscribers for all areas, including those
without telephone service at present; and (b) implement all such
modifications in its administrative and technical procedures
relating to the processing of pending telephone applications and
the installation of new telephone connections as shall be neces-
sary to ensure that telephone service to new subscribers would be
provided simultaneously with the commissioning of new basic
exchange or cable facilities or immediately thereafter.


﻿-7-
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall: (a) evaluate alternatives
to its present system of bill collection through bill collectors
with a view towards its replacement with a new system satisfactory
to the Bank; and (b) not later than October 1, 1980, adopt and
initiate a progressive changeover to the new system of bill
collection so as to complete the changeover to said system by a
date not later than September 30, 1982.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1979, establish and thereafter maintain an assets register set up
on the basis of appropriate techniques satisfactory to the Bank
for classification of assets and determination of assets lives.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of calculating the rate of
return specified in Section 5.07 of this Agreement and except as
the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than June 30, 1979, complete a review and
revision of its assets valuation and revaluation procedures so
as to provide for the valuation or revaluation of its assets
to be carried out at all times in accordance with consistently
maintained methods of valuation or revaluation satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) commencing with fiscal year beginning October 1, 1979,
calculate said rate of return on the basis of the average value of
its net fixed assets in operation as determined each year in
accordance with the methods of valuation and revaluation referred
to in paragraph (a) above. For the purposes of this Section, the
term "value of the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation" has
the meaning assigned to it in Section 5.07 (c) (iii) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿-8-
accordance with .appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalenL lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred'
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, which-
ever shall be the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year
on all long-term indebtedness incurred by the Borrower (including
the debt to be incurred). For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;


﻿-9-
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract or agree-
ment providing for such debt is entered into, but only to the
extent that the underlying debt is outstanding, and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into;
(c) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take account of tel,zommunication tariffs in
effect at the time of incurrence of the debt even though they
were not in effect during the twelve consecutive months to which
such revenues relate, less operating and administrative expenses,
including provision for taxes (if any) and remittances to the
Guarantor's Treasury, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debts;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in Baht debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such valuation is made,
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other cur-
rency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange reasonably
determined by the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank may czherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall from time to time take all such
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to
realize an annual rate of return of not less than ten per cent
(10%) in each of its fiscal years on the average value of its net
fixed assets in operation.
(b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall on the basis of realistic forecasts review the adequacy
of its tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
above for the next following fiscal years, and shall furnish to
the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.


﻿- 10 -
(c) For the,purposes of this Section:
(i) the required annual return shall be calculated
by dividing the Borrower's net operating income
for the fiscal year in question by one-half of
the sum of the current value of the Borrower's
net fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
the end of that fiscal year;
(ii) the term    "net operating income" means gross
revenues from all sources related to the Bor-
rower's telephone operations less all expenditures
incurred on account of such operations, including
expenses of administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, and
provision for depreciation. Interest and other
charges on debt shall not be deducted from gross
revenues; and
(iii) the term "value of the Borrower's net fixed
assets in operations" means the gross value of
the Borrower's fixed assets in operation less
the amount of accumulated depreciation, both as
valued from time to time in accordance with the
methods of valuation or revaluation referred to in
Section 5.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Telephone Organization Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's operations, finan-
cial condition or the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement.
(b) The Second OECF Loan Agreement and the agreement or
agreements providing for the loan or loans referred to in Recital
(E) of this Agreement shall have failed to become effective by


﻿- 11 -
March 31, 1979, provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the First OECF Loan, the Second
OECF Loan, the Local Loan, the loan or loans
referred to in Recital E of this Agreement or
of any other grant or loan made to the Bor-
rower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely the events specified in para-
graphs (a), (b) and (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date January 3, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Telephone Organization of Thailand
Ploenchit Road
Bangkok 5
Kingdom of Thailand
Cable address:                     Telex:
TELTHAI                            2886
Bangkok
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 13 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
By /s/ Klos Visessurakarn
Authorized Representative


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Local telephone              31,000,000     (
exchange equip-                            (
ment                                       (
(2) Telephone cables,            15,000,000     (
associated plant                           ( 100% of foreign
and accessories                            ( expenditures
( for directly
(3) Subscriber facil-             5,000,000     ( imported items,
ities, public                              ( 100% of the ex-
telephones and                             ( factory cost
associated plant                           ( for locally
( manufactured
(4) Microwave systems,           18,000,000     ( items and 65%
UHF systems, multi-                        ( of the cost of
plex equipment and                         ( items procured
associated plant                           ( locally off-
( the-shelf
(5) Station equipment             3,000,000     (
for rural long-                            (
distance call                              (
offices                                    (
(6) Vehicles                      1,000,000     (
(7) Unallocated                  17,000,000
TOTAL        90,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amoutt of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Development Program
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A
(1) Procurement and installation of about 185,000 new lines
of local exchange equipment with associated cables and
subscribers' plant for connecting about 170,000 new
subscribers and about 6,000 public call offices.
(2) Procurement and installation of about 13,000 new lines
in seven existing tandem exchanges in Bangkok for
interexchange traffic.
(3) Procurement and installation of about 15,000 new lines
in existing trunk automatic exchanges for Subscriber
Trunk Dialing Services traffic.
(4) Procurement and installation of about 3,000 lines of
local exchange equipment to replace old equipment and
mobile exchanges in Bangkok.
(5) Procurement and installation of microwave radio systems
on two new routes, upgrading of microwave radio systems
on 12 existing routes and adding of about 12,500 channel
ends,
(6) Procurement and installation of about 200 UHF and other
transmission systems and station equipment for about 210
rural call offices.
Part B
Provision of: (1) buildings and other facilities to house the
installations provided under Part A of the Project; and (2)
vehicles to be utilized in carrying out the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1982.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May I and November 1
beginning May 1, 1984
through   November 1, 1998                   3,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.35%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.10%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.90%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A (1) above,
procurement of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000
or less each, may be procured off-t!e-shelf through prudent
shopping after solicitation of at least three price quotations in
accordance with the Guarantor's regular procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of eva.uation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,


﻿- 20 -
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported


﻿- 21 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the supply of goods esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall,, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.


﻿- 22 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


