Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1013a-BT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
May 10, 1976
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =          0.87 Rand (R)
R 1                        US$1.15
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)          =       3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)  =      10.76 Square Feet
1 Kilometer (km)     =       0.6214 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)       =       2.471 Acres
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......*.*..*..*..*.............................   i - x
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................................... 
II.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ................   .........
Economic Development ..................... a .......1
Manpower Needs for the Modern Sector ....      ...........   3
Manpower Needs of the Rural Sector         .................    10
Distribution of Educational Opportunities .........         11
Conclusion ..    .................. .................       16
Annex II-1 - Comparative Education Indicators ......        17
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ...............   ........      19
Background ...... .................o...e............................  19
The Formal Education System .....      ...................  19
The Nonformal Education System .....................        22
Principal Issues in Education and Training .........    22
Financing Educational Development ...       ...............    26
Education Objectives, Strategy and Investment
Programs .......................... .....................  28
Annex III-1 - Projection of Primary School
Enrollment and Trained Teacher
Requirement and Supply 1975-1985 .....       31
Annex III-2 - Projection of Secondary School
Enrollment and Trained Teacher
Requirement and Supply 1975-1985 .....       32
Annex III-3 - Recurrent Expenditure on Education/
Training, 1971/72 - 1985/86 .... ......    33
Annex III-4 - Projected Recurrent Expenditure of
Ministry of Education, 1976-85 .......       34
Annex III-5 - Education Pyramid - 1974 .       ............    35
Annex III-6 - Structure of the Educational System ..        36
This report is based on the findings of a mission in October 1975 to the
Republic of Botswana composed of Messrs. R. Loken (general educator) and
M. Giuseppi (architect) and Ms. S. Asher (economist) from the Bank Group
and Mr. E. Townsend-Coles (adult education specialist, Unesco).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uwd by recipientu only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT .............................................           37
V. ~    Geea  .............................................           3
General     ..37
Project Items .........  ...........                          38
Junior Secondary Schools               ..                  38
Secondary School Teacher Training        .......           38
The Botswana Extension College                             39
The Youth Brigades ......... . ........... ........        40
The Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center               42
Project Evaluation .43
V.   COST OF THE PROJECT, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS..    43
Cost Estimates             .....            ......... .       43
Financial Plan ..,...........................                 47
Implementation ..                                             48
Procurement   ..49
Disbursements          ..                     ..........  50
Annex V-1 - Summary of Estimated Project Costs                51
Annex V-2 - Implementation Schedule .52
Annex V-3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....          53
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION..   54
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................           55
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File                      56
Key Indicators for Supervision   ..       ...............57
MAP            IBRD   11969



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
Basic Data (Est.)-1974
General
Area                                      570,000 km2
Population                                677,000
Per Capita Income                         US$300
Literacy Rate                             25%
Education
Enrollment in Primary Schools             103,700
(Grades 1-8)
- as % of 6,13 age grouD                  70% (gross)
Enrollment in Secondary Schools            10,300
(Grades 9-12)
- as % of 14-19 age group                 13% (gross)
Enrollment in University of
Botswana and Swaziland                  300
Recurrent Expenditure of Ministry
of Education                            R 4.0 million
- as % of Government Recurrent
Expenditure                             11%
Recurrent Expenditure on Education
and Training                            R 8.0 million
- as % of Government Recurrent
Expenditure                             20%
Total Expenditure on Education
and Training as % of GDP                5%






REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
ATC     -     Advanced Teacher Certificate
BAC     -     Botswana Agricultural College
BEC     -     Botswana Extension College
BTC     -     Botswana Training Center
COSC    -     Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CSO     -     Central Statistical Office
DEMS    -     Division of Extra-Mural Studies
JC      -     Junior Certificate
MFDP    -     Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MLGL    -     Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MOE     -     Ministry of Education
MS      -     Manpower Survey
NBCC    -     National Brigades Coordinating Committee
NCVT    -     National Center for Vocational Training
NDP     -     National Development Plan
ODM     -     British Overseas Development Ministry
PIU     -     Project Implementation Unit
PSLC    -     Primary School Leaver Certificate
PSLE    -     Primary School Leaver Examination
RECC    -     Rural Extension Coordinating Committee
RI      -     Representation Index
TLDP    -     Tribal Land Development Program
UBS     -     University of Botswana and Swaziland
UTS     -     Unified Teaching Service






REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Role of Education in Botswana's Development
1.        At Independence in 1966, Botswana had no public education system;
there were only five secondary schools and all were private. The sector had
developed neither as a result of local initiative nor by the colonial govern-
ment. Rather, education had been introduced by various missionary societies
and the structure and content of the system still bear the stamp of this
origin. At present, the structure of education is similar to that of various
African countries and provides for a seven-year primary education course,
followed by a junior secondary course of three years leading to the Junior
Certificate and by a senior secondary course of two years leading to the
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate. There are also various small post-
secondary courses in institutions of recent creation such as the National
Center for Vocational Training, the Botswana Agricultural College,
the Botswana Training Center, the primary teacher training colleges and the
University of Botswana and Swaziland. In addition, a number of institutions
provide accelerated training and nonformal education; of these, the most
important are the Botswana Extension College and the Youth Brigades. The
growth of the system has been slow and uncoordinated, partly because adminis-
trative responsibility was until recently divided among several Ministries,
parastatals and private agencies. Furthermore, the legacy of the system's
origins is still reflected in the heavy emphasis placed on arts and literature
and the comparatively low priority given to scientific and practical subjects.
As a result, the sector fails to provide the manpower required for the
expanding modern sectors of the economy and the skills necessary for improved
farm productivity and rural development. The illiteracy rate of the adult
population is estimated at 75 percent. Including overaged students, school
enrollments are equivalent to 70 percent of the relevant age group at the
primary education level and to 13 percent at the secondary level.
2.        At Independence, Botswana had a very small pool of trained local
manpower. Despite the efforts made by the Government since then, rapid
economic growth in recent years has resulted in a widening gap between the
demand for and the supply of educated manpower. At present, some 80 per-
cent of university graduates in wage employment are expatriates. Foreigners
also account for nearly half the workers with senior secondary schooling and
for some 20 percent of those with a junior secondary certificate. The
shortages of educated manpower are so acute that less than half of the re-
quests for employment of secondary school leavers can be met. In addition,
the educational background of those in wage employment is among the lowest
in Africa. Among those in professional and technical occupations, only ten
percent have had university education and over 60 percent have left school
after junior secondary education. Shortages of trained manpower and the low
educational background of the population in general and of those in wage



- ii -
employment in particular are becoming a major constraint to economic growth.
Projections of future manpower requirements indicate that the output of general
secondary schools would need to double by the late 1980's in order to sustain
expansion in the modern sector of the economy and allow for a gradual replace-
ment of expatriates. Current government plans for education are geared to meet
somewhat more conservative projections of manpower needs. However, it will be
possible to increase educational facilities in the early 1980's if it then
appears that needs are larger than expected by the Government at present.
3.        Education plays an important role in determining the level of wage
earnings in Botswana. For instance, in wage employment monthly earnings of
Batswana with university degrees are five times greater than those with only
primary education and ten times greater than those who are unskilled.
Opportunities for access to education need to be expanded by devoting spe-
cial attention to the geographical areas and the target groups that have
been comparatively neglected in the uncoordinated education development of
the past. Although the geographical distribution of primary school enroll-
ment is satisfactory as compared to other developing countries, funds for
new school construction need to be directed towards a number of areas, and
a vigorous program of bursaries to assist needy and deserving students
should be developed.
4.        In spite of the rapid growth of the modern sector and of wage em-
ployment, a large proportion of Batswana will continue to derive their live-
lihood from agriculture, cattle raising and the informal sectors of the urban
areas. In particular, some 70 percent of those in the 14-18 years age group
are not likely to find jobs in the modern sector in the foreseeable future.
As a part of the government program to promote agricultural development,
nonformal education is to be strengthened and improved. Programs like the
Botswana Extension College and the Youth Brigades, which address themselves
to increasing rural skills of youths and adults and providing "second chance"
education for those who had no access to the formal school system, will be
stressed.
The Reorganization of the Sector
5.        To respond to the needs outlined above, the Government has initi-
ated a major reorganization and restructuring of the sector. Administration,
control and financial responsibility for the formal education system are now
centralized in a much-strengthened Ministry of Education that until recently
exercised little control over teacher qualifications, teaching methods and
materials, and the quality of school facilities. Within the Ministry, a Plan-
ning Unit, a Curriculum Reform Unit, a Unified Teaching Service and an Educa-
tion Evaluation Unit have been established. The quality of teaching at both
the primary and secondary school levels is being upgraded. While one-third
of the primary school teachers are presently untrained, a major in-service
training program is underway and facilities for pre-service training are
being expanded. At the secondary school level, where 80 percent of the
teachers are expatriates, the quality of the system has been plagued by the
brief average tenure period. The length of the initial contract has therefore
been extended to five years. A vigorous recruitment program has been launched



- iii -
and plans have been formulated for increasing the supply of Batswana teachers.
In addition, a National Commission for Education has been established to
review the content of the education system and new curricula and syllabi are
being introduced.
6.        Determined efforts are also being made to promote cooperation
among the agencies involved in the various nonformal education programs. A
Rural Extension Coordinating Committee has been established recently and its
membership includes all the Ministries involved in rural development. Under
this Committee, the Government has also established a special sub-committee
to focus on nonformal education.
Strategy and Programs for Education Development
7.        With a strengthened and reorganized education administration, the
Government has laid the basis for maximizing the contribution of the sector
to Botswana's economic and social development. In the next National Develop-
ment Plan (1976-81), which is now under preparation, the Government intends
to: (i) continue the planned growth of primary education; (ii) expand and
improve the secondary and post-secondary systems, together with curriculum
reform and with special reference to the needs of the rural population;
(iii) provide rural educational centers for both formal and nonformal educa-
tion, as appropriate to the needs of the community being served; and (iv)
increase the emphasis on nonformal education by enlarging the facilities for
distance teaching (e.g., radio and correspondence courses) and improving the
facilities for skill training. With the Government's planned investment
program over the next Plan period, primary enrollments should rise to 80
percent of the 7-13 age group and universal primary education should be
available by the late 1980's. The sparsely and widely scattered pattern of
population distribution in the desert regions prevents reaching these targets
at an earlier date. Through extensions to existing schools and the addition of
five new schools, enrollment in the secondary system will be expanded to
accommodate 40 percent of those who complete the primary cycle; this expansion
is justified in terms of manpower requirements to replace expatriates, and is
in compliance with the policy of spreading the benefits of growth throughout
the country. Students eligible for enrollment in secondary education who
cannot afford the costs would be subsidized by government bursaries. There
would also be an expansion of primary teacher training from 190, the present
annual output, to 410. The output of secondary school teachers from the
University of Botswana and Swaziland would be increased from the present 24
per annum to 85 per annum. Post-secondary institutions such as the Botswana
Agricultural College, the Botswana Training Center, the National Center for
Vocational Training and the University would also be expanded and improved so
that enrollments can be increased gradually in line with manpower needs and
the availability of students and teachers.
8.        The development of rural education centers would help bring edu-
cational opportunities to all sectors of the population. About five centers
would be constructed to provide training in health, nutrition, agriculture,
animal husbandry and rural skills, and each would include facilities for a



- iv -
junior secondary school. Opportunities would be further expanded by increas-
ing the work capacity of the Botswana Extension College and the number and
size of the Youth Brigades which provide training for primary school leavers.
There would also be improvements at national and regional levels for the
coordination of activities in nonformal education, to ensure that unnecessary
duplication of effort is eliminated. Finally, there would be a concerted
effort to develop close links between the schools and the communities they
serve.
9.        To reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of educa-
tional programs, the Government would: (i) continue to support the work on
curriculum reform in the primary schools to make primary education more
productive and responsive to the needs of rural development; (ii) make the
changes necessary in the secondary curriculum to ensure that the emphasis is
on preparation for employment and rural development; and (iii) reorient the
teacher training programs in line with the changes in the curricula to ensure
that the emphasis is shifted accordingly and that teachers are able to play a
direct role in village and community development.
The Project
10.       The proposed project was identified by Bank missions that visited
Botswana in August 1974 and April 1975 to review Botswana's education develop-
ment plans and priorities. A government request for Bank assistance was made
in May 1975. The project was appraised in October 1975 by a Bank mission
which also assisted the Government in completing project preparation. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington from April 26 to 28, 1976. The Botswana
delegation was led by Mr. M. Stevens, Director of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of Finance and Development Planning.
Objectives and Description of the Project
11.       The proposed project would be the first phase of the Government's
education investment program which is designed to meet the manpower require-
ments of the economy in the early 1980's. It consists of a number of mea-
sures to increase the output of the existing system. The proposed project
would supplement the capacity of this system in order to meet projected
requirements. It would be specifically designed to: (i) increase the number
of secondary school places by 30 percent; (ii) provide additional secondary
school teachers to replace expatriate teachers and meet expansion needs;
(iii) expand adult education programs to provide formal and nonformal educa-
tional opportunities for out-of-school youths and adults; (iv) assist ex-
pansion of the Youth Brigades Program to train primary school leavers for
wage employment; and (v) provide a rural education development center to
serve the needs of the western Kalahari region. The project would consist
of:
(a) the provision of buildings, furniture and equipment
for the following:



(i) five new junior secondary schools providing 2,100
student places;
(ii) expansion of secondary school teacher training
facilities at the Botswana branch of the
University of Botswana and Swaziland for 96
additional trainees;
(iii) expansion of the adult education facilities at
the Botswana Extension College to provide a service
center to develop materials for radio and correspon-
dence training programs which would reach about
9,000 additional adults;
(iv) expansion of the Botswana Youth Brigade Program
including the establishment of a National Brigade
Development Center, to provide places for an additional
1,500 primary school leavers; and
(v) one multipurpose education center in the Kalahari area
to provide education and rural skill training for about
3,600youths and adults per annum as well as a junior
secondary school for 320 places; and
(b) professional services, technical assistance and operational
expenses in support of the items under (a) and for project
evaluation and preparation of future education projects.
Project Items
12.       Junior Secondary Schools.  Following the 1972 Manpower Survey (up-
dated in 1975), the Government began an active program of expanding exist-
ing schools. The expansion program has now reached its limits and additional
schools are required. The Government intends to build five new junior sec-
ondary schools in addition to the school in the Kalahari Center (paras.
18-19). Two of the proposed schools would be day schools and three would
be mixed day and boarding schools. The day schools would be located in
Gaborone and Francistown where the age-group population density is high.
The other three schools would be located in areas adjacent to potential growth
points which do not have secondary schools: one near the diamond mine (Orapa);
one near the abattoir (Lobatse), which provides major employment, and one near
the copper-nickel mine (Selebi-Pikwe). The population density in the areas
surrounding these schools is sufficient to provide the required student
flow. The schools would provide facilities for practical subjects such as
workshops, domestic science, handicrafts and agricultural skills. During
off-hours and vacation periods the schools would be used by adults and out-
of-school youths for crafts, agricultural and other special skill training.
The schools would be integrated closely with village and community development
programs.



- vi -
13.       Secondary School Teacher Training.  Currently, Botswana has 350
secondary school teachers, 80 percent of whom are expatriates. Due to the
low output of local secondary school teachers, half the teachers in 1980 will
still be expatriates. The low annual output of local secondary teachers is
the result of the shortage of qualified candidates and the lack of training
facilities at the University where secondary teacher training is provided.
Enrollment in secondary teacher training programs is now about 120 giving an
output of about 40 per annum. The Government is planning to increase the
number of places by 96 which will increase the output of teachers to about 75
per annum. With this output and the projected increase in secondary school
enrollment, 90 percent of the expatriate teachers would be replaced by 1985.
The project would provide the facilities for this planned expansion and, in
addition, would provide quarters and equipment for a center which would
develop simple teaching materials.
14.       The Botswana Extension College.  This College, established in 1974,
provides distance teaching through the combined use of correspondence courses,
radio programs and some face-to-face teaching. The Government intends to
incorporate it into the permanent nonformal education program in the country.
Its expanded roles would be to provide (i) support to all the nonformal exten-
sion work in the rural areas, (ii) in-service assistance to primary school
teachers, particularly to those working in rural areas, and (iii) "second
chance" courses at whatever level is in demand.
15.       At present, the College is providing radio and correspondence
courses for approximately 1,000 students per annum. The courses are primarily
directed towards the completion of academic qualifications for education
certificates. The College has developed an active training program for
members of the Botswana 4-B Club, an association of young farmers, which
reaches about 3,000 youths on a regular schedule. The College is engaged in
the preparation of materials for a radio and correspondence program which
would explain the new land use policy to the rural population. The project
would provide the College with permanent service center facilities in Gaborone.
With these additional facilities and programs, the College could reach more
than 10,000 youths and adults per annum with radio, correspondence and group
training services. To be capable of fulfilling the tasks assigned to it, the
present staff of the College is now being increased from 11 to 19, with
budgetary allowance for part-time course writers. In addition, the College is
being given an adequate allocation of radio time at periods in the day which
are suitable for adult listening.
16.       The Youth Brigades.  The Botswana Youth Brigades were developed over
the past ten years as a means of providing skill training for primary school
leavers. The system is voluntary; the trainees, both boys and girls, undergo
three years of on-the-job training, their work and resultant products generat-
ing much of the resources needed to maintain the Brigades. The Brigades
originate through local initiative; each Brigade teaches a particular skill
(carpentry, building, dressmaking, farming, motor mechanics, forestry, weav-
ing, etc.), and several Brigades in a locality join for administrative pur-
poses into a Youth Brigade Center. The Brigade centers consist of a collec-
tion of very modest buildings built by the trainees. Each center is governed
by a Trust, or Board, made up of interested local residents. Every proposal



- vii -
for a new Brigade activity is reviewed by the Trust and, if approved, the
proposal is forwarded to the National Brigade Coordinating Committee. Gov-
ernment financing of a new Brigade proposal is dependent upon the approval
of the National Committee. This method of project approval assures a con-
trol on the creation of Brigade centers and additions to existing centers.
It also ensures that all new Brigade activities are originated and approved
by the local community. At present, there are 12 centers, with 66 individual
Brigades and about 2,000 trainees. However, since the centers. are concen-
trated in the eastern section of Botswana, a wider geographical distribution
is desirable. The project would provide the Brigades with two features
urgently needed for their continuing development:
(a) A National Brigade Development Center at Gaborone -
This would serve as the administrative and accounting
center for the movement as a whole and as a training
center for instructors and administrators.
(b) The establishment of three new Brigades Centers and the
improvement of existing Centers - Locations of the three
new Brigade centers and specifications for the improve-
ment of the existing centers would be identified by the
National Brigade Coordinating Committee and reviewed by
the Project Implementation Unit. Bank review of the
individual subprojects would be carried out in the
course of project supervision.
17.       The project would result in an improved Brigades system, and enable-
the Brigades to develop and expand during the forthcoming Plan period by some
70 percent, from an enrollment of 2,000 to about 3,500 with the establishment
of the new centers and improvements to existing centers. The required upgrading
of instructors and administrative staff would be the task of the proposed
National Youth Brigade Development Center.
18.       The Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center.  The proposed Center
in the Kalahari area would: (i) provide nonformal education for youths and
adults, both male and female; (ii) offer training in rural skills; and (iii)
include a secondary school for 320 pupils with a curriculum designed for rural
students. The Center would be provided with facilities, including a few
vehicles, for training about 3,600 adults per annum in short courses and
seminars. The Center compound would also include facilities provided by
Ministries other than Education; e.g., offices, training facilities and stores
for Agricultural Extension, a clinic operated by the Ministry of Health and a
depot for the library services. An interministerial committee is being formed
to coordinate the work involved. A Center Council, consisting of local in-
habitants and representatives of all ministries participating in the program,
would be established and given autonomy in the operation of the Center.
The Center will, however, be under the ultimate jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Education. In order to be effective, the Center would be provided with
appropriately trained staff including: (i) a Director to be in charge; (ii)
three staff for the nonformal program who have had training in this type of



- viii -
education; and (iii) 17 staff for the secondary school component who could
also work in nonformal education.
19.       In regard to the efficient establishment of the Center, assurances
have been obtained that the Borrower would submit to the Bank for comment
within one year of the date of the Loan Agreements, (i) a plan for the
organizational structure of the Center, (ii) a plan for training the teachers
and instructors, and (iii) a curriculum for the rural junior secondary school.
Project Cost and Financing
20.       The total project cost is estimated at US$15.0 million equivalent,
excluding taxes and duties amounting to $0.5 million equivalent. About
US$10.5 million equivalent, or 70 percent of the project cost, would be for
expenditures on goods and services outside Botswana. The proposed conven-
tional Bank and Third Window loans (US$10.5 million equivalent) would cover
all of these expenditures. The balance would be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation and Evaluation
21.       A Project Implementation Unit would be established in the Ministry
of Education to administer the project and to provide for the physical plan-
ning of possible future projects. The Unit would include a manager, an
architect, a quantity surveyor, a procurement specialist, an accountant
and a clerk of works as well as supporting staff. The estimated foreign cost
of the manager, procurement officer and clerk of works would be financed by
the proposed loans. Qualified staff have been selected, but not appointed, for
all positions except the clerk of works. Recruiting for this position is
underway. The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit and the appoint-
ment of the project manager, the architect and the procurement officer have
been made conditions for effectiveness of the proposed loans. Moreover, the
Borrower has agreed that any future appointments to these three positions
would be made only after consultation between the Borrower and the Bank.
The project is already well advanced in its formulation and preparation.
Standardized plans already exist for most of the buildings to be constructed.
Private architectural services would be required for the University construc-
tion but these would be minimal because the hostels to be constructed would be
duplicates of existing structures. The Unit would oversee the implementation
of the project, train counterparts to replace expatriate specialists, maintain
liaison with the Bank and assist in the plannning of possible future education
projects. In addition, the Unit would cooperate with the efforts of the
Education Evaluation Unit, which has been established recently (para. 5).
The Evaluation Unit would evaluate the project and develop a tracer system
to follow up school graduates in the labor market. In addition to the key
staff of the Implementation Unit, the proposed loans would help finance the
operating expenditures (excluding local salaries) of the Implementation Unit
as well as consultants' services for civil works, project evaluation and
preparation of future education projects.



- ix -
Procurement and Disbursements
22.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group Guidelines for procurement except for: (a) civil works costing less
than US$200,000 equivalent each which are small units to be constructed in
scattered locations primarily by the Youth Brigades; (b) construction of new
and expansion of existing Youth Brigade Centers that would be carried out on
force account; (c) furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent which can be purchased more economically locally since
the small amounts involved and the variety of the lots are not likely to
interest foreign suppliers; and (d) locally procured construction materials
and transportation services. Contracts for items procured under (a), (c) and
(d) above would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures which have been reviewed by
the Bank and found acceptable. In those cases where international competitive
bidding is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing suppliers. In addi-
tion, local civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
23.       Review of tender evaluation documents for civil works by the Bank
prior to award would be required only for contracts above US$200,000 equiva-
lent; for furniture, equipment and construction materials, review prior to
award would be required for only contracts above US$50,000 equivalent.
24.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (a) 64 percent of total
expenditures for civil works and construction materials; (b) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for directly imported furniture, equipment and
vehicles; (c) 90 percent of local expenditures for locally manufactured
furniture and equipment; (d) 80 percent of total expenditures for imported
but locally procured furniture and equipment; (e) 80 percent of total ex-
penditures for consultants'services; (f) 85 percent of total expenditures
for technical assistance for the Project Implementation Unit; and (g) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 30 percent of local expenditures for
the other operating expenditures (excluding local salaries) of the Project
Implementation Unit. Expenditures on consultants' services and the Pro-
ject Implementation Unit that are incurred after February 1, 1976, would
be eligible for disbursements from the loans. These expenditures are estimat-
ed to total less than US$150,000 equivalent, of which US$100,000 equivalent
would be eligible for reimbursement. Disbursements would be fully docu-
mented. However, disbursements for project administration and for civil works
carried by the Youth Brigades would be made against certificates of expenditure,
documentation which would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained
by the Borrower and reviewed in the course of project supervision. Disburse-
ments would be made pro-rata from the conventional Bank loan and the Third
Window loan. Upon agreement between the Government and the Bank, any funds
remaining on completion of the project would be used for project related
items.



x
Benefits and Justification
25.       The proposed project would:  (i) provide a 30 percent increase
in student places at the secondary level; (ii) enable an additional 9,000
adults annually to take radio and correspondence courses; (iii) enable about
500 primary school leavers annually to receive on-the-job skill training;
and (iv) provide rural training facilities for about 3,600 youths and adults
in the Kalahari area, which is the most disadvantaged region of Botswana.
The principal risk is that the innovative non-formal education features of the
Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center, which would serve as a prototype
for future centers in the rural areas, might not achieve full success because
their operation depends upon effective cooperative of several ministries.
To minimize this risk, the Government has established inter-ministerial
task forces to develop the adult education programs and the modified secondary
school curriculum to be used at the Center. Also, close monitoring of all
project items would be done by the Evaluation Unit. The only other important
risk in the project relates to the Youth Brigade program, which offers an
unusual opportunity to provide employment-oriented training for primary
school leavers. The success of the Brigades has already been demonstrated and
the proposed project would provide needed support for their continued develop-
ment. However, since development in the past has been exclusively through
local village initiative, there is a small chance that Government involvement
might reduce this initiative.
26.       The objectives of the project and its expected benefits point to
its suitability as a part of Botswana's overall strategy to improve the
productivity of the rural sector, provide amenities for and raise the living
standards of the rural population, reduce manpower shortages and gradually
replace expatriates, and improve the efficiency of the education sector.
Agreements reached and Recommendations
27.       Agreement was reached with the Government on the following princi-
pal points with regard to the Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center:
within one year after the date of the Loan Agreements, an acceptable organi-
zational structure, a plan for training teachers and a curriculum will be
developed for the Center (para. 19).
28.       In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment of the
Project Implementation Unit and the appointment of the project manager,
the architect and the procurement officer would be conditions of loan
effectiveness (para. 21).
29.       Retroactive financing is recommended for:  (a) the services of
consultant architects; and (b) Project Implementation Unit expenditures
(para. 24).
30.       Subject to the conditions above, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$7.0 million equivalent and a "Third
Window" Loan of US$3.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Botswana, both
for a term of 25 years with a seven-year grace period.



I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      Prior to Independence in 1966 Botswana had no public education sys-
tem. The few schools which did exist were under the control of tribal autho-
rities, private interests and church missionary societies. There were only
five secondary schools serving a population of some 580,000. Although the
system has expanded since Independence, particularly during the last five
years, the sector still cannot produce enough secondary school graduates to
meet the manpower requirements of the modern sector. Despite the fact that
80% of the population is dependent upon subsistence farming, the school
curricula are overly literary and include little which would prepare the
students to earn a living on a farm or in the wage economy. Aware of these
quantitative and qualitative shortcomings, the 1976-81 National Development
Plan will place much greater emphasis than in the past on educational improvement
and development, particularly in the rural areas.
1.02      Bank missions in 1974 and early 1975 visited Botswana to review the
educational plans and assess priorities. In October 1975, a mission composed
of Messrs. R. Loken (general educator) and M. Giuseppi (architect) and
Ms. S. Asher (economist) from the Bank Group and Mr. E. Townsend-Coles
(adult education specialist, Unesco) simultaneously prepared and appraised
the project.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Economic Development
2.01      Botswana is currently going through its Third National Development
Plan, 1973-78, (NDP III).1I/ The principal objective of development is the
extension of the benefits of development to all Batswana. 2/ Within this
broad objective, three major aims are envisaged under NDP III: (a) rapid
economic growth, (b) improved distribution of income and wealth, and (c) sus-
tained production. The Plan proposes a two-stage strategy to achieve these
aims. In the initial stage, intensive capital investment in mining and modern
industries is contemplated. The revenues generated from these investments
are expected to finance the second stage, which would place emphasis on invest-
ments in agriculture, labor-intensive manufacturing, rural infrastructure and
education.
2.02      Economic growth has been rapid during recent years.  Real GDP has
grown at an impressive rate of about 20% p.a. since the late 1960s. Per capita
income has increased five-fold during the last decade and now is estimated at
about US$300 equivalent (Annex II-1). The Government's domestic revenue has in-
creased from R 6.4 million in 1968 to R 24.2 million in 1973 (at 1970 prices).
1/ Botswana revises its 5-year plan every three years.
2/ Batswana is the name of the people of Botswana.



-2-
The Botswana Treasury is no longer dependent upon a British grant-in-aid.
Furthermore, the economy which in the past suffered from an acute resource
shortage is now in the position to generate savings. This rapid economic
growth has been primarily the result of (a) mineral exploration which has
led to the exploitation of diamonds, copper, nickel and coal deposits, and
(b) renegotiation in 1969 to operate more favorably than in the past within
the South African Customs Union which includes Lesotho, Swaziland, and the
Republic of South Africa in addition to Botswana.
2.03      While the country is heading towards sustained economic expansion,
new problems have arisen. Economic growth derived from capital intensive
investment in mining and modern industries has benefited mostly the urban
population, which accounts for only about 13% of the total population.
The rural-urban income disparity is estimated to be about one to four. There
is also a high degree of income inequality among economic sectors. In 1974,
average monthly earnings of Central Government emloyees were twice the average
monthly earnings for the total population employed for wages. The earnings of
Central Government employees were six times greater than those of the wage
earners in the agricultural sector. These problems indicate the limited
success of NDP III in attaining its distribution targets.
2.04      The next development plan, NDP IV (1976-81), would still emphasize
the mineral-led growth of the economy. But the Plan is also expected to give
priority to the diversification of economic and trade patterns in order to
sustain production and improve distribution. The Government intends to make
a more concerted effort than in the past on the agriculture sector and on rural
areas. Investment would be directed towards the development of rural infra-
structure including feeder roads, water supply and rural schools. This effort,
in turn, is expected to help attain improved distribution of development
benefits.
2.05      As an important program toward rural and agricultural development,
the Tribal Land Development Program (TLDP) has already been formulated. Under
the present system of land tenure, people cannot fence the tribal land but
can keep as many cattle as they wish on the communal land in tribal areas.
This system has inhibited investment in agriculture in general and the incen-
tive to conserve the grazing lands in particular. The TLDP will divide the
tribal land which is most valuable, occupying a half of the total land area
of the country, into three areas: (a) commercial farming areas; (b) communal
grazing areas; and (c) reserved areas. With a view to improving the manage-
ment of land, fencing will be introduced. Herd owners will be given control
over the fenced areas where their animals graze, thereby encouraging them to
conserve and improve grazing lands.
2.06      The implications of the changing emphasis in the development stra-
tegy on the education and training sector can be summarized in three broad
groups: (a) those related to the supply of trained manpower for the modern
sector; (b) those related to the formulation of programs for the rural,
agricultural sector; and (c) those which would assist in promoting the in-
come distribution targets of NDP IV.



- 3 -
2.07      At Independence, Botswana had a very small pool of qualified man-
power, and the expansion in school enrollments is of recent origin. Mean-
while, the economy has grown so rapidly that the country suffers from a
widening gap between the demand for and the supply of educated manpower.
To fill this gap, the country is dependent upon a large number of expatriates.
Of the highly qualified personnel in Botswana today, almost 80% are expatriates.
In the coming years, Botswana will have to produce trained local manpower to
close the present gaps and also to meet the increasing demands in the mone-
tized, urban sectors of the economy. In addition to supplying manpower for
the modern sector, the education sector is now expected to provide the know-
how and skills necessary for the development of the rural, agricultural sector
in line with the national development objectives (para. 2.01).
2.08      The income distribution objectives of the Plan hold a special sig-
nificance for the education sector. Education plays an important role in
determining the level of earnings in Botswana where the educated are still
a small minority and there is no rigid social structure. The 1972 Manpower
Survey (MS) conducted by the Government included a study of the wage and
salary structure of skilled manpower. It showed that-the average monthly
earnings of Batswana who had attained degrees were five times greater than
those who had finished only primary education, and ten times higher than un-
skilled workers. The survey also revealed that the highly educated Batswana
in the modern sector earned more than twenty times as much as workers engaged
outside the modern sector, whose number was approximately 18 times greater than
the number of wage emloyees. Therefore, the distribution of education oppor-
tunities appears to have a major bearing on future distribution of incomes.
Manpower Needs for the Modern Sector
2.09      When the Population Census was conducted in 1971, the population was
estimated at 630,000, of which 46,000 were outside the country mostly working
in the Republic of South Africa. At present (1975), the population is estimated
at 677,000. The major characteristics of the population are its very low density
(1.2 per km2) and its high migration rate. The number of workers who left
the country to seek jobs in the mines or on the farms in South Africa increased
from 36,000 in 1964 to 46,000 in 1971. As long as a significant difference
exists in the minimum wage between Botswana (R 44 per month) and South Africa
(R 92 per month), external migration is expected to continue. Internal migra-
tion is also high. Most people live for a part of the year at "lands" and
cattle posts, which are 20 kilometers or more away from their villages. In
addition, migration to urban areas to look for jobs in the mines and in the
establishments is high. For instance, the population in Selebi-Pikwe, the
copper-nickel mine town, grew from 5,000 to 18,000 in the past four years. On
the whole, the population in four townships (Gaborone, Francistown, Lobatse and
Selebi-Pikwe) increased at 13.5% p.a. between 1971 and 1975. Rapid internal
migration is expected to continue because of the anticipated expansion of
employment and incomes in the modern sector. Another major characteristic of
the Botswana population is its concentration in the eastern part of the country.
About half of the population resides in the two districts in the east (Central



- 4 -
and Kweneng). 1/ About 13% of the total population live in urban areas which,
in the official terminology of Botswana, are defined as the areas with town
councils. At present there are five such areas, all spread along the eastern
edge of the country. About 73% of the total resident population aged 10 and
above (or some 300,000) are economically active, participating either in wage
employment or in family agriculture.
2.10      Wage employment in 1968, soon after Independence, was only 24,700 but
increased at a high rate of 13% annually until 1972, when the number stood at
40,200 (excluding about 8,000 domestic servants). In 1974 there was a total
of 48,800 wage employees, who comprised about 16% of the active labor force.
The percentage distribution of wage employment by sector in these three years
is as follows:
1968            1972            1974
Commerce/Finance/Services                27%             24%             23%
Central Government                       24              23              24
Agriculture                              17              13               11
Education                                 7               7                7
Manufacturing/Electricity/Water           7               7                6
Construction                              6              16               14
Transport                                 5               3                3
Local Government                          4               3                4
Mining and Quarrying                      3               4                8
All sectors                  100             100              100
Commerce, finance, services and Central Government together comprised about
half of wage employment in all three years. During the past six years, how-
ever, important structural changes in the economy have taken place, and are
reflected in the change in the sectoral distribution of employment.  While
the share of agricultural wage employment declined, the shares of construc-
tion and mining increased. In particular, the share of the mining sector in
total wage employment doubled between 1972 and 1974. Employment in construc-
tion expanded rapidly from 1,600 workers in 1968 to 6,800 in 1974.
2.11      The Government projected that during NDP III (1973-78), wage employ-
ment would increase at 9% p.a. on the assumption of an output elasticity of
employment of 0.64.  The available data indicates that between 1972 and 1974
wage employment increased at a rate of 11% p.a. rather than at the projected
9% p.a. Thus, with a 20% average annual growth rate in output (para 2.02), the
Government assumption about output elasticity of employment seems broadly valid.
This indicates that the production structure is capital intensive, and that the
marginal productivity of labor is relatively high.
2.12      The long-term projection of employment generation for the 1980's
mainly depends upon the assumption made about the prospect of future economic
growth. The Government manpower estimates assume three alternative annual GDP
1/   There are nine districts altogether in Botswana.



growth rates for the 1980's: (a) 10% (high); (b) 6% (medium); and (c) 2%
(low). Corresponding with each of these and assuming the output elasticity
of employment of 0.64, employment would increase in the 1980's at 6% p.a.,
4% p.a., and 1% p.a., respectively. On the basis of these assumptions, wage
employment would increase from 66,600 in 1978 to 119,200, 98,600 or 73,600
by 1988. The labor force will grow on the average by 5,100 p.a. for the
1971-78 period, and by 7,900 p.a. for the 1978-88 period, while employment
opportunities will increase, assuming a 6% output growth rate, by 4,500 p.a.
and 3,200 p.a. respectively during these periods. To cope with a rapidly
growing labor force, the overall development efforts are expected to give
priority to more labor-intensive techniques and investments.
2.13      According to the 1972 Manpower Survey (MS) 1/, 32% (12,800) of
total wage employment (40,200) were skilled workers whose occupations re-
quired education or training above the primary level. The Central Government
employed the highest percentage (40%) of total skilled workers followed by
education (22%), and services including commerce and finance (18%). Thus,
80% of total skilled workers were absorbed by these three sectors as shown
below:
Total           Citizen         Non-Citizen
Total Skilled Workers           100%             100%             100%
(12,800)         (10,300)        (2,500)
Central Government               40               46               20
Education                        22               23               20
Commerce/Finance/Services        18               16               20
2.14      In projecting skilled employment in 1978, the MS made separate cal-
culations for mining, Central Government, and the rest of the economy. For
the mining sector, the future expansion of existing mines and likely new pro-
jectswere reviewed in detail in order to project total employment in the sec-
tor. Then, "a skill intensity ratio" (skilled employment as a percentage of
total wage employment) of 30.3% based on an actual survey of the industry was
used to derive the number of skilled workers required for the sector. For the
Central Government the future recurrent expenditure was estimated and then the
staffing requirements were derived from these estimates to take account of bud-
getary constraints. The skilled employment projection for the rest of the econ-
omy (the private and parastatal sectors) was made on the basis of the growth
rates of the value added by the various economic sectors. An elasticity of one
was postulated between the growth rates of value added and skilled employment.
The projections show that over the 1972-78 period the mining sector and the rest
of the economy would each generate skilled employment at an average rate of 15%
p.a. while the growth rate of skilled employment in the Central Government would
1/   The 1972 MS was revised in 1975 using the same base year of 1972 and
target years of 1978 and 1988.



- 6 -
be at a rate of 11% p.a. By 1978, there would be some 25,000 skilled jobs, which
would be about 38% of the total wage employment.
2.15      A projection of manpower requirements for the 1980's is obviously
approximate and based on uncertain parameters. In Botswana, manpower fore-
casting beyond 1980 is particularly hazardous because the industrial base is
small but growing rapidly, the impact of one or two major mining projects
on skilled employment can be dramatic and the expected introduction of new
technology has an important bearing on labor productivity. If the economy
grows at 6% p.a. in the 1980's, total skilled employment in 1988 would be
43,500, but if the economy expands at 10% or 2% per year, it would be in
the order of either 56,700 or 33,900 respectively.
2.16      The occupational structure of skilled employment in 1972 showed a
concentration in the professional and technical (37%), and clerical (23%)
occupations. It compares with the structure in 1988 as follows:
1972                      1988
Professional/Technical      37%                        33%
Clerical                    23                        25
Production/Transport        15                         21
Service                     13                         10
Others                      12                         11
All occupations            100                        100
(12,800)                  (43,500)
While the absolute figures of skilled employment are expected to rise in all
the above occupations, the production and transport sectors are to gain sig-
nificantly in relative size.
2.17      The 1972 data on educational requirements of various occupations
were based on observed educational attainment of job holders, which was then
lower than what was judged to be the minimum level required. Accordingly,
the MS adjusted observed educational attainments to derive the educational
requirements of the various occupations. In projecting the relationship
between occupation and education requirement for 1988, the Government made
almost no allowance for the upgrading of educational qualifications. As a
result, the required educational qualifications for various types of occupa-
tions in Botswana, as projected for the late 1980's, would be lower than those
now prevailing in other African countries such as Kenya, Malawi and Ethiopia.l/
1/   For example, in 1973, in Ethiopia 30% of the professional and technical
jobs were filled by the higher education graduates, 60% by senior
secondary school leavers and 10% by junior secondary school leavers.
The Botswana MS, on the other hand, assumes that in 1988 11% of the
same jobs will be filled by higher education graduates, 22% by senior
secondary school leavers and 64% by junior secondary school leavers.



- 7 -
2.18      If the occupation-education matrix provided by the 1972 MS and a
6% growth rate p.a. for the 1980's economy, are assumed as a basis for the
projection, Botswana will need the following output at the different educa-
tional levels for the 1972-88 period:
Form III la      Form V /b      Degree       Total
1972-78             7,500            2,300            700      10,500
1978-88             9,700            3,500          1,000      14,200
Total          17,200            5,800          1,700      24,700
/a   Junior secondary school leavers.
/b   Senior secondary school leavers.
If assumptions of the low (2% p.a.) and high (10% p.a.) rates of economic
growth in the 1980's are applied to skilled manpower demand projections, the
following education output will be required for the whole 1972-88 period:
Form III       Form V      Degree       Total
Low economic growth           11,800         4,200        1,100       17,100
High economic growth           24,500        8,200        2,400       35,100
The above estimates indicate that required education outputs at the levels
of Form III, Form V and degree could be higher or lower by about 30% than
the Government projection which assumes a 6% rate of GDP growth in the 1980s.
This indicates the sensitivity of estimates of manpower requirements to growth
in output.
2.19      The present stock of skilled local manpower is far below the demand.
The gap has been filled by expatriates (para 2.07). At the time of the 1972
MS, 80% of degree holders were expatriates. The expatriates also constituted
50% of workers with senior secondary schooling (Form V) and 20% of those with
junior secondary schooling (Form III). Because of this severe shortage of
educated Batswana, the Central Government generally reserves the right to
employ them before other potential employers. This is accomplished by an
arrangement of the Directorate of Personnel, which is responsible for allocat-
ing most skilled personnel to public, parastatal and private sector employers.
The 1974 records of the Directorate of Personnel show that employers sought
613 junior secondary school certificate holders (JC) and 337 Cambridge Over-
seas School Certificate holders (COSC). According to the same records, how-
ever, the total supply of JC and COSC graduates including those who failed the
examinations but who were available for the labor market, was only 333 and 57
respectively. As a result, the Directorate of Personnel could meet only 55%
of the requests from various employers for the JC graduates and 17% of those
for the COSC graduates.
2.20      In 1972, there were 136 Batswana employees who had degrees, of whom
88 were employed by the Central Government. This comprised 60% of all degree



-8-
holders (including expatriates) working for the Central Government. The
parastatal and private sector employers had to resort more heavily to expa-
triates who constituted 90% of employees holding degrees in these sectors.
The numbers of employees at the levels of Form V and Form III were 777 and
2,076 respectively. The ratios of expatriates to Batswana in the public sec-
tor were 1 to 2.2 at the Form V level and 1 to 16.6 at the Form III level.
The same ratios for the parastatal and private sectors were 1.1 to 1 at the
Form V level and I to 2.3 at the Form III level.
2.21      During the 1972-88 period, total secondary school output 1/ is pro-
jected to increase at an average rate of 7% per year, from 1,000 in 1972 to
3,000 by 1988. The labor force participation rates used in the projection of
education output available for the labor market were 70% for junior secondary
school leavers, 80% for senior secondary school leavers, and 95% for university
graduates. In calculating the secondary school outputs, not only those who
would obtain the certificate but also those who would not obtain it were in-
cluded. As for the wastage rate (death and retirement), an average rate of
1.6% p.a. was applied for the whole economy over the entire projection period.
2.22      Based on the assumption of a 6% GDP growth rate in the 1980's and
the planned expansion of secondary education output, the demand for and
supply of educated manpower are summarized below andthe further details are
presented in the following table (p. 9);
Form III /3    Form V        Degree
1972 /1
Batswana                            6,200          1,100         180
Expatriates                           800             700        580
1978
Required Stock                     14,600          4,200       1,450
supply /2                          11,000          3,300         480
Balance                            -3,600           -900        -970
1988
Required Stock                     24,200          7,700       2,410
Supply /2                          22,300         11,700       2,160
Balance                            -1,900         +4,000        -250
/1   Existing manpower by "required" educational attainment.
/2   Includes Batswana remaining from 1972.
/3   Includes an allowance for output from programs equivalent to junior
secondary (e.g., Youth Brigades).
The above figures indicate that by the end of the 1980's there would be no
overall shortage of educated manpower except at the university level. Thus,
the country's target to localize all the personnel except in very specialized
areas by 1990 appears to be feasible.
1/   Including the failures in school leaving examinations.



EDUCATED MANPOWER: REQUIREMENT AND SUPPLY, 1972, 1978. 1988
Std. 7     Form I      Form III      Form V      Degree
1972 -
Batswana                                      2,020         670        6,230        1,140         180
Expatriate                                      210          70          820          710         580
1978
Requirement                                   3,750       1,280       14,550        4,190       1,450
Supply                              2/
Batswana Remaining from 1972 -           1,830         600        5,640       1,030          170
Additions from Ed./Trg. System,
1972-77 4/                              -  3/     1,340        5,330        2,270         310
Shortage (-)/Surplus (+)                                    -      (-)3,580        (-)890     (-)970
1988
Requirement                                   6,850       2,300       24,220        7,710       2,410
Supply
Batswana Remaining from 1972             1,560         510       4,800           870        140
Additions from Ed./Trg. System,
1972-78 4/                                 -  3/    2,290       17,460       10,860       2,020
Shortage (-)/Surplus (+)                        -        (+)500    (-)1,960    (+)4,020        (-)250
1/ Existing manpower by required educational attainment.
2/  Average annual wastage rate of 1.62% was used based on the model life tables of the Botswana
population in the 1971 census report. A retirement age of 60 was used.
3/ Supply of primary school leavers far exceeds requirement.
4/ Participation rate used: Jr. Secondary - 70%, Sr. Secondary - 80%, and Degree - 95%.
Sources: Manpower and Employment in Botswana, 1973.
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.                                January 1976
Bank Staff Estimate.



- 10 -
2.23      However, there would be some imbalance at the secondary education
level. While there might be a surplus of 4,000 at Form V, there would be
a shortage of about 2,000 at Form III. In other terms, 4,000 students who
leave at Form V would have to accept the jobs which now require less than
Form V schooling, assuming that the education and occupation relationship
would remain constant over the projection period (para.2.17). In turn,
2,000 of those with Form III schooling would have to lower their job expecta-
tions. The net result would be the upgrading of educational qualifications of
4,000 jobs, resulting in the upward adjustment of the education and occupation
relationship. Such an upgrading is desirable because, as depicted in para.
2.17 above, the present level of education qualification in Botswana is
among the lowest in Africa and perhaps the lowest among the developing
countries with a per capita income of about US$300 p.a.
Manpower Needs of the Rural Sector
2.24      In order to support development in rural areas, the education
sector will have to provide the knowledge and skills required for increased
rural   productivity.  The main constraints to agricultural development have
been the tribal land tenure system and the low overall skill level of the
rural population. The land tenure system is being reformed (para. 2.05) and
as the reform progresses, the need for managerial, agricultural and cattle
rearing skills and knowledge would increase at the level of small farmers and
cattle owners on tribal lands. The Botswana Agricultural College (BAC) at
Sebele has an output of 30 technicians p.a. in animal health training and
agricultural training, but this number is not adequate to meet the Ministry
of Agriculture's development plans for the extension service. The country
suffers from a shortage of the required personnel especially because of the
discontinuation of the animal health training course at BAC over the past
five years.
2.25      In addition, nonformal training programs are needed for the youth
who cannot be absorbed either by the modern-sector labor market or by the
formal education system. At present, there are some 66,000 primary school
leavers in the 14-18 age group. Of this total number, 12,000 are at school
on a full-time basis and 6,000 are employed either as skilled or unskilled
workers in the modern sector of the economy. This leaves 48,000 young people
in the activities in the nonmonetized sector. They consititute more than
70% of the age group.
2.26      There are various nonformal training programs addressed to this
target group under several ministries, such as the Youth Brigades, the
Botswana Extension College (BEC), the National Center for Vocational Train-
ing (NCVT) and the Division of Extra-Mural Service (DEMS) under the Ministry
of Education. In addition, the Office of the President provides the Botswara
Training Center (BTC). Under the Ministry of Agriculture there are the Rural
Training Centers and the BAC. The Ministry of Health operates nursing courses
to staff the hospitals and clinics of the Central and Local Governmenxts. All
of these programs, although numerous in general, have only small capacities.
For instance, each Brigade can take only about 30 trainees p.a. and the



- 11 -
estimated total trainees at 12 Brigade Centers are 2,000 at present. This
total enrollment is equivalent to about 18% of the annual primary school
output. In the light of contribution which the Brigades can make to local
communities (para 4.12), the intake capacity needs expansion.
2.27      There are three Rural Training Centers at Maun, Mahalapye, and
Sebele respectively, which can together accommodate 180 persons for one week
to four months of training. The problem is not only the small capacity to
accommodate farmers, women and school teachers, but also the shortage of
staff. To reduce these constraints and to further improve the skills and know-
ledge needed for rural and agricultural development, the expansion of the BEC
and the establishment of an education center in the Kalahari area with a
capacity to train more than 3,000 adults and youths p.a. under the proposed
education project would be of significant value.
Distribution of Educational Opportunities
2.28      Wage employment opportunities are unevenly distributed geographical-
ly in terms of both the relationship between population and employment, and
of the sectoral distribution of employment. The 1974 survey of employment
conducted by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) shows that total wage employ-
ment (43,000) 1/ and the population (650,000) in 1974 were distributed among
districts as follows:
Employment  Population                   Employment   Population
Urban areas /1   60.0%        13.4%      South East         3.6%          3.4%
Central           15.8        37.2       Ghanzi             3.4           2.0
North West         4.5         8.9       Kweneng            2.5          11.0
Southern           4.0        11.8       Kgatleng           1.4           5.3
North East         3.8         4.4       Kgalagadi          1.0           2.6
Total          100.0         100.0
/1 Gaborone, Francistown, Lobatse, Selebi-Pikwe.
Obviously, the employment opportunities are concentrated in the urban
areas in the eastern edge of the country. With 13% of the total popula-
tion, the urban areas offer 60% of total wage employment. The Central
district with almost three times the population of the urban areas had only a
fourth of the jobs offered in the urban areas. Also the Southern, Kweneng and
Kgatleng districts with a combined population of 28% had only 8% of total wage
employment.
2.29      As indicated above (para 2.08) earaling capacity varies widely by
sector. The 1974 average monthly earnings of Batswana employees in different
sectors are listed below (in Rand):
1/   Excludes domestic servants estimated at 10,000, and industrial class
employees of the Central Government estimated at 3,000.



-12 -
Agriculture                    19     Central Government       121
Mining and Quarrying           65     Local Government         52
Mfg. Electricity and Water   53       Transport, Finance,
Construction                  57      Services                 45
Education                     78      All Sectors              59
2.30      The following table shows the geographical distribution of employ-
ment in the Central Government, education, mining and quarrying, and construc-
tion sectors, in which earnings are relatively high, and in the agricultural
sector, which generates the lowest earnings among the sectors:
Central                  Mining &  Construc-                   All /1
Government   Education  Quarrying    tion       Agriculture   Sectors
Urban Areas    77.7          16.9        77.9        86.1         23.3        60.0
Central          9.5         41.5        20.0         6.3         30.8        15.8
North West       3.6          4.5         2.1         6.3            -         4.5
Southern         2.9          7.9           -           -        12.5          4.0
North East       0.7          5.6           -           -          4.2         3.8
South East       0.7          3.4           -         1.3            -         3.6
Ghanzi           1.4           1.1          -           -         25.0         3.4
Kweneng          1.4         11.2           -           -            -         2.5
Kgatleng         1.4          5.6           -           -            -         1.4
Kgalagadi        0.7          2.2           -           -          4.2          1.0
Total       100.0         100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0
/1   Includes manufacturing, electricity, water, transport, finance and
Local Government, in addition to the sectors listed above.
Employment opportunities in the sectors with a high earning capacity are con-
centrated in certain geographical areas. For example, besides the obviously
highest concentration of Central Government jobs in the urban areas, which
include the capital of Gaborone, 86% of construction jobs and 78% of mining
and quarrying jobs are also located in the urban areas. The education sector
and the Local Government sector are the only ones with the employment distri-
bution broadly similar to the population distribution.
2.31      The educated Batswana are also concentrated in certain sectors and
locations. The Central Government and education sectors are skill intensive.
All in the Central Government (except industrial class workers) and 96% of
the employees in the education sector are skilled workers possessing at least
primary schooling. In contrast, only 7% of those employed in agriculture had
education above grade 7. Therefore, as employment and earnings opportunities
are concentrated in certain geographical areas and economic sectors and as
educational attainments open the door to those opportunities, it is important
to examine how educational facilities and input are distributed in order to
assess whether the present pattern promotes equity and to identify gaps to be
filled.



- 13 -
2.32      The degree of geographical concentration of educational opportuni-
ties in Botswana has been calculated by the Bank staff. For the analysis, the
country was geographically divided into nine districts and four urban cities.
The 1974 population in each of those areas was extrapolated on the basis of
the 1971 Population Census, which provided the basis for calculating the popu-
lation age groups relevant to primary and secondary education. On the bases
of these data, the measurements of education equity were derived by calculat-
ing the Representation Index (RI) for each district and urban area and the
Gini coefficient to summarize countrywide inequity. 1/
2.33      In 1974, there was an estimated population of 144,800 in the 6-13
age group, and 103,700 students enrolled in primary education. This popula-
tion group and these enrollments were distributed geographically as shown
in the following table together with the resulting RI. The RI indicates that
the Southern, North West, Kgalagadi and Kweneng districts are under-represent-
ed in that order. If the Government plans to raise the present gross enroll-
ment ratio 2/ of 70% to closer to 90% by 1985, approximately 30,000 student
places will have to be created. To attain a more equitable distribution of
primary education, those student places should be provided to the disad-
vantaged areas as depicted through the RI.
1/        Percent of distributed good  (e.g., enrollment,
teachers, recurrent cost per student)
RI = Percent of distributional basis
(e.g., age group population, enrollment)
The Gini coefficient is a measure of the degree of inequality in
the distribution of two variables arranged cumulatively in the Lorenz
curve, e.g., the percentage of an age-group population and the per-
centage of enrollment. It ranges from 0.0 for absolute equity to
1.0 for absolute inequity.
2/   Gross enrollment ratio includes overaged pupils.



Distribution of Primary and Secondary School Enrollment by District, 1974
Primary School                               Junior Secondary School                        Senior Secondary School
Age Group                                      Age Group                                     Age Group
6-13         Enrollment       RI1'              14-17       Enrollment      RI               18-19        Enrollment      RI
(%)            (7.)                           (%)             (M)                            (%)            (%)
North East               5.0             6.7         1.35                4.9           5.2          1.06              4.3           10.5          2.42
Central                 38.0           39.7          1.04               37.8          34.4         0.91              36.8           35.9         0.98
Kgatleng                 6.1             6.3         1.03                6.1           7.9         1.31               5.3            9.5          1.80
Kweneng                 12.0            10.9         0.91               11.6           9.8         0.84              11.1            7.3         0.65
Southern                15.6            10.8         0.69               15.3          10.4         0.68              14.0            9.4         0.67
South East               4.0             4.1         1.02                4.1           4.9         1.20               3.8            8.3         2.17
Kgalagadi                2.8             2.5         0.89                2.4           0.6         0.29               2.5            1.8         0.79
Ghanzi                   0.6             1.6         2.67                1.1           1.4          1.24               1.9           1.1         0.55
North West               8.4             6.0         0.71                7.1           2.2         0.31                7.4           2.5         0.35
Gaborone                 2.2             3.7         1.68                3.1           6.2         2.01               4.4            4.8          1.09
Francistown              3.0             3.5         1.17                3.7           7.6          2.06              4.6            5.7          1.24
Lobatse                  1.8             2.4         1.34                2.1           8.9         4.22               2.7            2.6         0.96
Selebi-Pikwe             0.5             1.8         3.60                0.7           0.5         0.76                1.2           0.6         0.55
Total            100.0           100.0         1.00              100.0          100.0         1.00             100.0          100.0         1.00
(No.) 2/       (144,800)       (103,700)                        (53,500)      (9,100)                        (21,400)       (1,200)
1/ Representation Index.
2/ Includes students in private schools.                                                                                         January 1976
SOURCE: Bank staff estimates.



- 15 -
2.34      Overall, primary school enrollment is not so unequally distributed in
comparison to the situation in some other countries. Th'e Gini-coefficients
for some developing countries are compared below 1/:
Botswana   Thailand   Kenya   Tanzania   Nicaragua   Ethiopia
(1974)      (1973)   (1974)   (1972)        (1970)      (1974)
0.13       0.10       0.11      0.14      0.21          0.27
In fact, primary school enrollment is more evenly distributed in Botswana
than in Nicaragua and Ethiopia and the situation is about the same sas in
Thailand, Kenya and Tanzania.
2.35      Trained teachers, classrooms and recurrent expenditure per pupil
are also comparatively well distributed in primary education. The Gini
coefficients are 0.09, 0.07 and 0.08 respectively, which are lower than
the Gini coefficient of enrollment, 0.13. However, certain areas are com-
paratively under-represented: the North West, Southern, Kweneng and Central
districts in trained teachers; the Kweneng, North West, Central and North
East in classrooms; and the North West, Kweneng, Southern, North East and
South East in recurrent expenditure per pupil.
2.36      In 1974, the 14-17 age-group population numbered 53,500 and junior
secondary school enrollments, 9,100. In senior secondary schools, there
were 1,200 students enrolled as compared to 21,400 in the 18-19 age-group
population. The gross enrollment ratios of junior and senior secondary
education were thus 17% and 6% respectively. The previous table (p. 15)
summarizes geographical distribution of the relevant age group population and
enrollment, 2/ and the RI.
1/   Gross national Gini coefficients should be viewed primarily as orders
of magnitude due to some difficulties in the comparability of data.
2/   Students are grouped into districts where their parents are ordinarily
resident rather than where the school happens to be located.



- 16 -
2.37      The degree of geographical concentration appears to be low in
comparison to those of some other countries. The Gini coefficients of junior
and senior secondary school enrollment in Botswana are 0.25 and 0.24 respec-
tively, which compare well with 0.33 and 0.56 respectively in Thailand, or
with 0.34 in Nicaragua for secondary enrollment as a whole (both junior and
senior), and with 0.38 in Tanzania for the same level. Nonetheless, some
areas need urgent improvement. In particular, the Kgalagadi and North West
districts are much disadvantaged in terms of junior secondary enrollment.
To obtain the same proportional share in this enrollment with that of Lobatse
where the RI is now 4.2, these two districts would need additional 900 and
2,600 student places respectively. As for senior secondary education, the
North West and Ghanzi districts and interestingly the urban city of Selebi-
Pikwe, are most under-represented in enrollment. Selebi-Pikwe is under-
represented mostly because of high migration of the youth (para 2.09) which
greatly exceeds the available education facilities. At the moment, this is
the most rapidly growing urban area in the country.
2.38      In brief, this analysis of equity in education opportunities indi-
cates that overall, primary education is well distributed at least quantita-
tively in comparison with some other countries. The enrollment ratio is also
relatively high. The above analysis also shows that secondary education oppor-
tunities too are relatively well distributed in different parts of the country
in comparison with other countries at similar level of development. However,
certain areas such as the Kgalagadi and North West districts are disadvan-
taged and need a greater access to secondary education, provided that future
migration leaves the present population pattern substantially unchanged.
Since several of the sites for new institutions in the proposed project are
in these disadvantaged areas, the proposed project would assist in correcting
these imbalances.
Conclusion
2.39      In summary, the development strategy of Botswana calls for the
education and training sector to:
(a) expand,outputs greatly at all levels to reach 1,200 JC p.a.
and 700 COSC p.a. in the late 1980s from 600 JC p.a. and 300
COSC p.a. in the mid-1970's (para. 2.22);
(b) improve and expand nonformal educational programs both to
assist upgrading of the labor force in the modern sector and
to help develop the knowledge and skills required for agri-
cultural development (para. 2.27); and
(c)  gradually improve opportunities through a more even
geographical distribution of facilities and input,
specifically at the secondary school level (para. 2.38).



vii    051   092   ti 0 I         (A I       91t       3yo?l   z II
GO'Et   A (Ji 2         1) k        0 t       Olt                                               2L       6 1    Z2      Us      a IV?       S."       3016       3 It      I A               rk3w
Dole         01       ASS           CIV       all            62          9?          to         Su       Qz     51    I$         6111    8.1          Ofiii     W 2        et          AVntVtVo
00, 1        02       X29           6 i       1) 9           I S.                   Ago       vib                       it    OL I 6 I me's           3000      31 10    171              v t, v  n
Abtb'to         "I                                              of
Dole                                o 6                                              let        69   Abfti AO?# ACSO           31 0        t'i         091        SIq      IL           at](jvr 33
0 1                              u 0            4f          oz          AD        fL       cc      VI    St        6,01    01 I?        3006       36,11   ot            v 191,0103
WO:.,                AG"O                                   AfiLt         ...    AQXITI    ...   AOOV AOSI AChi                  A9,01   Agle            coo        olut   Z4                ill"3
AM          wol         . I I       ...         AU2          ...         xow         61      Li       0 ?    20      30'et    I'D          30fl,    02 166   tit               'It z v Nib
.............
v3lajmv iircs
Agob'z          Sa        60           S I       0 Is           if          L9         x 516       06        I     La      is       6 1 fo I  I,%,       Z046      Zoll       I t         cvulsiml
10 I A      "?        I I         i 6          .&           it          1 2                    AS        I     I I     L to               s'e         of 9     1. I I i   tL           56 v o I N
A 311 19        f e       6 I          S 9         .fi          4 "         I S                    9 A      2 1    P2      0 5                .0 I e     30SL      211"s   0 L                0 LA 3 ol
AbLIO         6 I    A it ?1.                      I           e S                  AX901        9V      All   A22   Aft             6 ; W V             0 19      6I I     t L            3 I v I, t f
Dull         9 I      Rot           ;I        1 :9           I I                    x,to        ?S       k      I I     lpq    US'42       61i         0 17 V     L I 2    2 4
a Doll         te        I           0 C.         .S           S"        LS?           ?2       fg 0 a    9       t I     114    uglq        6I u        oil          a     2 i
A bli I a     1. z       4           69          .i            St          90          a 4       41       0 1     1 2    Ss       419 1      '. I      )U?b       ;%,S      it         vlvwgivns
AbSt'll    AJ12   A3KqI              -;-         I I I       A3,j          ...    A31ii         AVOS        ti     S       19       w'fe      gli        30of      zi of      Si     4CUVAlfb  13
0014         02         S 1          9       -io'l           as          t I         OQ         Is       22     02      20   wASIS I       sle         Glib       2 "I    2t,d3b NV31NIACC
A3111it         ioe     A2d           Ws        Olt            62          sq       A399          66       II    St       LS       L lee     e1b,
Avolpli)                 Nsi           02          ...          4s         I           xsb         it       01    29       Do       Slil                 3011      :S,"    Si                Viel-Tz
AV96 I 0                   it          S 9         019          0 ol                    19         S 1    361   at I Zas          2t, It DU'S             Apt        b,te   tj
AbIblo          Se         I           Oa          O'vt         low        ...          u I        S        il     01    59         bli?      V.,         tq         q's      I
Ab91.'Q         II   AIXW            Vol           ...          14 f       ...    A3xV*          Vs?      uiil  ter   00"   haq, I t No I S              Ooc i    zI ti I
I?        9 I         ti          019           to          lw         ?I         %S       VI    to       Ai       V'S?      t.q        JV61      Ot's       it             I b
312         z           A           ...          6 ti       ...         9 No        19       i I "I    qi            o'il   Nils          30 1 1    :2 I I I Di           v I h I
ol 1        02     AU141         ...          o I L         of          ze          99        V?       2 1     92     L I      A'al   Vj'n            09d          ti    2 L       LNillzvmo
Si             ft        sip         6L          of         S I      et     62      to       2 't I    , .,
kip I
ol I        VT                                olst          SS          16          t I                        9 1    LS       gli        ...       3ow        Z61?      I j
AWW O           1 2      xii           Se        IC")           if          St         iff       AS i       ot    91       ti      *It2       t, I f     Out I     21 I.,    it   INL31 Vtbilfi
A31111          he       x I I                                  vo                     xvt         St    Vs       Igo   vat   has'll   NOIV              30si      -C-*       It           ITIUJI
AOit'O          it         e                                     1%                     14;        U      ...    ...    ...    ".,I   3it 'I           JPV09       OA 't     it             104110a
A2jh I U     A J02         R                                 A3,f          ...    A3X6t          ...    vot   vee   v 0 it           ...   149 It        UV I      U-69   it                it 3t 1 t,
Ole         t I      A S I                                               2        xes        499       6       Le     "O      filst   ;IV IS        3i) it    Zs-St   " 4             L33C1,L%
43to, 1         Ul         I S                                                                                                                            0 of      Co    it            bn L I i or v,,
all,                               0j                             w "         A.'
"e        f                                                             sit                                        olle       sle       3061    ;21 t        01       vihyllhrvl
it        I           L IL        01111         oft         el          I I       0 1    WI I gas   191            i Iek   hqln         301       olls       bi                I,,1VK
02       AO           OD          Q.L           0 f.        99        xqs                                                     I:i       3:0 1      :1:1    *A
6i                                               't;                                        S,                                    VI,
6%                                                              3 1       ;S          t           VIO .4 blI
to'u                    w                                                            69         go     30?   3sl   360           olai        I 0      206       :610    IL              LNLC&31
-te        a                                                           xkol        Oil      I I     t I             OIL?      clq        JOA I     w el   tj                  VAFj
Abfw'l                                             U."                     ...
Ab1W   I        se         0 1       ...            I . I       9w         VLS          is       V6       Al IAsti  Aute           L'02    1 19           Get       I'S    at        1691J.1 AbEAl
Atirt I 0    A 391       k t I         Ol           ...    A30t             iq      A3x9s        ...    oft   thst   Ott   Ifullwa            L.,        3011      2t14       11              vhwh..
3 &.1     Joe         Vol           0           39w         251      AVNVOI    ...           I 9    6      St       9,0?       o I f.    3060       Oslo    It                 Kivt
ue")         ot         2                                    Os          to         3LI         L        91    61    to          U'vi      ill         of       36 se   II              Loll. lo. la
AJWR'2         AS"         ble                                                        31:f 1    40S   AISI AVSJ  OSV               , 14i     V I,#      360i      2g, I     I&          (bm puz
0     A.1 R 2                                    99                  IX?          L        0       it     LL       ilbi    S Is
AbIS'g                                                       AVV              :    A                                                                     300       W (       at                Lvm;
Atol U      AHLO      A"                                    A 3S41        liz       A299        ...    ...    6 t        96       olce   Nfi I 0       3091    2q, t        Oi              4,V,3
A3Uh,V    A312            fe         I I            ...    AOtS                         et       ...    All   A62   Att             0 1 ad    Olt       3001       20,10   1AL           40.bllo TZ
Absilo       AVII   AOXi             ...            ...    A491                     Avxie        ...      ...    ...    ...         ...       ...         04        9-t      a&            tubnbns
AOI'O          6 I      lif i        ,a          a I ri        St          St        Not         St       ri I    01     of       elge       v's         set       Ale      *I          TOWNS401
A;)** I a      mot       bL          mf VI       tiolse        114%        tOA       lots          t I      0 1    la      Lo       elitL    I I 6      30, 1      3612    tt                 kIskis
Ob'i         v?       10 I          Li          919          to          92          La       tse        9 I    2f      to       ...    1916          30io      2110 I ILA              v loislv
Vogl,#         of       wba                                  vst         ...         vib        V66     ASS   AU       A*$      valst   told           3041 1 129 I ipt,   I't              f-side
A*914        ...    AA%v                                     .0.         ...        A1116       ...      ...    ...    ...        ....       ...        Ott        aIG      el          191rikof
voolt         61         SL         VSSS           ...        it         V"           46         26     AVI   Aig   Aft    FJ6,1 t           ill.       evil I got          el           chvljbl
poll I    AIP         A$$         VOA                                               AS41      was      Al I AOZ   AIS            11 is    ila        340011 3460          ti
VAPP    f161          Et         ...          Ole         nst           66         66         66       it ess,   ...           *'Si    0,9           #OS'%,  b'IAVE it                         u
...        of         ...          V6         96     a..    ...    ..*         Noti    O's          304911  :116%   gi                        or,
S,          ;1,           ...        A 1         66                    66       1 1     0 t    9t       $lot    Ole          3469 I, 3111         VI             MaGims
Go, 91       I S       qi          66          61 I          of          06          66                 t I     ti     as       alti    got            Off it   *It       at             AT10110
ov,NZ        6 I        iq          6*           ...         to          66          66         66       61     we    69          S..    to%         300614  3601    I A          ONVIV34 01314
00, it       GI         It          to          Olt          62          S6          66         66       *L    St    at    al'bi    Sol                tob'd   I It I U           lGhT143"Ailk
uoolve       Out        066         360          012         2st         266         006         66       at    Vs       69       1101       flis      M t of  36,901 I A                   blewr
A 306 '4 1      te         14          6*           ...         I t         ob           16        66       ge  *Ott   Il*          el* I     V*          :60i :1   :::v   filelb'a Atilt-big
galb         it         a*          66          Ole          92          we          60         V6       61    vf       at       N,bt    L'i,            0    0at                        OGVN93
Oa,$         61         Is          66         -toll         it          to          ob         66    002   oil   oto            Ole       ile        30161d  3611    iL                vii.1sof
*433hvotv
.................................................................................................................................
I    0M          M )l    M ll        (11)  I    (011    4 (6) 0            (V)    I    (1) a       (9) I         (6)         I   to)    I      (1)   I (to    is (to 4
438   41) I          (11) I   VIJdT3  I    dilIM 31306   (1) I(SAM4118'104 '339  '18418 'flOA   I (AlkO  SIM II(00*148A
sullon  "J1,14i   1,114 3 '23t Di$ idool fil  1j43V3j6'H3O'Iba2   IJWI   AJ Ill                                   Sul        I    at I         .dqa  103311161 ldcd4
111ONNIO   OW             11061'101,1 NLIMAII NUILV1391   aid'OLA AAVNJ UIIVVI liTh   803AV3011V dK31Q3AGAJQt4l1%n4) AIJUS10*1                                             a
lAwd NoleNt Auqlvotolw3us                  Naltilleowit            A2V8    imistio3ile  I 'dxi   "nuJ CJL I I* I                           I
3         s   nlgs I3jjS                                      -nils -jjdwL31 load  S -ulitll    majiv3nQ3  i 3IjqSnd#QjjCA3Q  gwjj*q3,                                      I
3361           I                  'fed'AVO IledS                                                       IC   tilvick It   dho I  S /dhg  6                    I
..........................................................................................................    ......                                                                  ......
qL61 '6 AoVnNVV
;0    I    as*,&                                                                                 3AjLVmTdku3



CONPASATTVE EUCKATIOw  INDICATDUI   (CORTO)                                    Page  2  of  2
.    .........................                                     ........... ..............   ....      ....
I      GMR/ I I Su.  I1 TOTALIE  Of PUSIIC I                                    :  Pil. IAV.pRI*   a                    : asC   s 
I  OCARTAI  IOVO?IIOMIU C I UoWatiSSl   ILITER.1I POI. ICO4PLE. 1ITU. IsCM.TtAC14sPRrO6aSS.I  Sec. 18111. g
a  a  AT   a TO IO5U.1  [VP.   a  cmECUmU        RACY     SENRIOLLITION       111E'47U1SALARV INgION RalfSNOLKNSNBEI
a  a"ARKlt  IPULIE,0(VcrT90,EKP ALLOCaTES,  *ATl sUAytI  ISATE FoRapER   IIILATIIW.  FAaf"" P0I.I441IO  SPIER  sLNIWOaLL
*P29. a"P0UCISI:  PI,.    S    TO    S      TO       its OF   i NET  sPQI.8Cw.aTEAcms  to Bstpj gTu SWc.  I NgT  ITIAEN. SaTIll
YRIteOSS  I CUJSS): ONILY)  I  [Du. :Pal. SIC. 1EI.1ADULTS)l (1)  ICVCLIM3)ER    I CAPITA   I  El)                    I (11  lall   I (XI  I
I       I        I          I        I                I         I        I          I      I           I            a       I       I       I
S (I) to  fit) I  (3)    I  (4)  I           (Si      I  MA     a (7)  I  (a)    I (9) I  (lo)    I (oil            MI!)   MI)3   Meh) I
Asia AND O3CEANIA
....ale    73  Tp.5g      ?*C      i.a    am.'       .        .....* i          %*a       *.        m           .  ...             3is    PA
CNTIt"IAmi.a   73  1S.1c    seec       1.3      CS.    as    01   Ila      of       96        96        40        ia.0       9'       is       84.    IS.0o
101311           It 503.bc    11E        RAW1  *-         ..*.. ...   89              TIx       ...      4as         ...       ...      801      lOll   **O*ay
I11$3119e1a      13 183.SE    alec       1.0R   1I*o      I3   83    la      aa       *3        go        31         3.6      9i        oa       I6      ",'IO
TO&"             vs  24.ec    eSeC       s.s    ia.6      ise   iee   III   so        ?I        74A       ii         %.On     mAG       la       38       a.Yacv
Isis             la  16.1      M7        A.?    16Ien  ..    *0   0*.   lA            Aidv      ...      88         O...       ...      ?6yCY  84.       6.25EV
JORDAN           73    a.ar    170C      I.s     5.5      SR   Is    iit    S9        911       Ta       30         q.om      4a        sow       p      4.e0
Ko"&       ~73  38.3C    Bloc        a.'    10.S      A4    81     S     98       97        96       33         S40m    75          It       39      6,go
LCIAIs"m         is    a.'     l.e       s.s    is.       30   a4    to       *       64.       AS        59         l*.0 no    3       ?111    PS      13*ftp
WALOVRIA         it  11.e    SIM         *.       av ..         **.7  *..    10       9,1       ...       38         ...       *...     331      84.
3064N            78    0.*     US9       a.s      3*g     9b                 as       Pax       99        33         7.00      ...        0.5W    9       ...
PA4?ITAN         73  66.?E     13C lst      1.     8 e   05   as    to      at       all       s   30  39            80      *...      Ivy      in      t
PUILTPPI'IER    Ta  39.1C   88cC         8.3    14.0      73    Is    la      5T     to4I       ...       34         Is        ...      a611    ...  I21.00
SINSAPORE       ita   aIs   lii          3.1w   16.a      aa   II    Is      734    107m        78       33          *..      99        a ?      jaar
THA1LAND       73  le*3       neoc      3.@N   IS*?      03     .   Is      ma       #71       'SC       38         3.eoiJ   91C       811    lU         ;.00
Iu9edy          78  37.0       lit       *.    13.6m ..    .              ....       tosicy    ...       3acY        *.        ..        aa      ??UV   S. II 01
lVEN41          73    1.3      1o0       0.3     8.0      Asp  lIP  lIP    10         131       is       36         s..a      73l                j9     ft.430v
VE414 P.Ml.$.  78    3.5       too       1.3A  12.1       79    18           IO       lax       31       at        10.00      99        Ill      jo      0.09AV
RuVIAmy v3m DEVELJP`INB COUNITRIISI
dJN4(91 OF cltjNTRl!S1                   I?     4.7      II    so   St      Al       73        45       72           I#      41        71       4.'      l7
.. ......... .(0.3.  (3.5.  (as- l0.  (0-    (S-                    (10-     (17-      f19-       (1.6.    (1-        (.a-   (9-       (.Ol.
9*.  1  38.3)  9th I SI)  10)   90           tsogu    99 I      I6I        158.01    99)       75.0)  8'.)      ;1. 01
20JA6TILEStUPPE" I4.7   aa.0                           37    31    t0      II      9 I       74.       'S           1       70        . 7,    20 8s.79
HEOIANI                   8.0    10.1      so    87    Is      s0       71       54        so          0         13       II      21       ?.00
LnWEm I                   3*0    to*0      Al    57   II       80       04       83        33          3        83         4       19      0.33
SYISOLS,...  DATUM U------------                           ........B--OR-----------T------- SCN1UUF                             ------------
4 ACNITUDE  N1L MI NIGLISIRLE 0.1971                             N.gDp                                      !!_
T  OUE3TIONASLE                      Cu97                          P!CmL'IDING FO EIGQNVAID                    CZLMNSI)  AID 2 WOOLO RANK
-INCLUDES PAC  TW    TDNT    .930C ENTRAL GOVT.,  ONLY                                                                            T
COMeINED  .017W  3RINARV          E3l976                       RENINISTPY OF EDUCATION  ("n11  ThITL                 3 fi'l IA  lOIRD MTSOl(1N9
SUNDF ANDI STATE C-)VT. ONLY                                   s..Dono uNtscn
TBEXCLtIDLING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATTSTICAI
IimPURLIC ONLY                                                 yF OlsnnK
V3INCLkITTNG PRIVATE EXPE'4fITIJNE
WRINCLIJDImc nvEMAGES) sIuDEmTs
YSuNESCIJ SnuRCES
...................................................................
CDV0PAATIVF EDUCATIIV 5ATA ARE USEFUL IN. TUE EVALUATIONd Of VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND) ANALYSIS OF IWELATIAF lAoFS UP FIOUCATIUNAL
DEVELOPMENT REFTWIEN VARIlUM COUNTRIES. MOwEVER.DN THE OASIS OF TWE PRESENT DATA,CA03S.4ATION4L CUIqPARISON SHOULO BE APPRrJ&CI4FD WTTW
OmAT CAUTION. DATA P49SE11110 IN IHE A90VE TASLE NAvE SEEN CnLLECTED LAAGELY SY T"sj RANK missinks rpn0w GrIVERNMENT CUtiRCER; TUE
11E4AINDE41 ARE STAFF ESTIMATES 10 DATA FRM'O uNESCn. EFFOnTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDARnI7E nFFTI.ITIUVNS AND) hkIioI LIMITS. Tn CwEc% 14u
AC'URACY OF THE! DATA, NEVER7UELISS,SUCU DATA ARE STILL IMPESFECT IN SEVERAL mESPICTS AND THE SANK IS .ORKIN& ILI IMPInVON THFM
PR3GmESSTVFLV ON THE 3CCASI3N OF ITS OPER4TIDNAL WORK. IN Tn! USE If ThESE DATA. THE FOLLOWINQ UIiALIFICATIIINS SUOULI, 1NP RONE 11.
WIND0S
Ml)IOUC&TtDNN AS OEF1NED IN TUE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AkD lIWAINING, Ft)RNAL AND NON.FITRMALI
M?)PqTmAlly EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECOk0ARY- EDUCATInN NFFFRS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THA SECO.)orv40
LEVEL REGARDLESS OIF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL)I
C31*LITERAC" RATE30(CflL.6) ARE OFTEN OSTAINED FRO" COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCtIUNINIES T14FY ARE nIL)' APPRnxIIAyPnms AND IT 15
DOUBSTFUL 70401 &MY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF "L1TERAT[E &A R EEN FOLLOwED CONSISTENTLYI
t4flSU9LYC EXPENDITURE IN EDuCATIoqN(cnLS.4.A AND 51 REFER 1f. AL CAPItAL Alln RECURRWENT EXVFNDITftlRFY IYvnlrfr In FrIocAITIUN AY
P'tRLIC AND 0UA3I.PURLIC AGENCIFS:
(S)"ENROLLNEjNT R1ATI985(COLS T. I? AND 1A) REFER To scUlIlL YEAR AND WEAN THE PEQCFNTAGE IIF FL1(;IOALE [HILTAlIN FNRILLYU) F~!Lt-T!ME
IN TUE APPQOPRIATE SCHOnt., PORLIC AND PRIVATE My LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUNJFCT TLI A .191 -MARGIN OF ERlIUR TN IHL DFVFLnPTJr.
CIJPJTRIES3 OWIN TO VARIATION IN TUE ACCURACY OF SA31C DATACI.E. AGE.SPECIFIC POPULATION ANOt) LVHLLMENTS). EkkULLHfNT FIGuIRES
FREOIIENTLY ARE -I1GUES THAN TUE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCDonL. nvFRAGFD STLUnENTS WHnSE  INCL,ISInN 10 INnITATFI)  RV
PrIITNOTFS ALSO CAN 1NFLATF T4E RATIOS.



- 19 -
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
3.01      Assessment of the present Botswana education system must take into
account its historical origins. Unlike most countries the education system
neither evolved as a result of local initiative nor was it developed by the
former colonial government. Rather, it was introduced and developed by var-
ious religious missionary societies, and the structure and content of the
present system still bear the stamp of this origin. This, in large measure,
accounts for the heavy emphasis, which still exists, on arts and literature
and the comparatively low priority given to science and practical studies.
The legacy of 100 years of religious instruction is difficult to modify
since those in charge of the system today, including the local teachers, are
themselves products of the old system.
The Formal Education System
3.02      The primary school cycle includes the first seven years of the sys-
tem and successful student leaves with a "primary school leaver's certificate"
after passing the examination at the end of the seventh year. At the second-
ary level, there are two cycles: the junior secondary (grades 8-10) and the
senior secondary (grades 11-12). Because of the need for manpower with
junior secondary (Junior Certificate - JC) qualifications (paras. 2.18-2.20),
the Government has decided that 50% of the secondary school students should
leave school after grade 10. Only half of the junior secondary school leavers
have the opportunity to continue through the senior secondary school cycle and
take the examinations for the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC).
Of the students who take the examinations only half obtain passing grades
which limits the number of students qualified for many post-secondary educa-
tional programs. The quantitative aspects of the primary and secondary school
system are presented in Annexes III-1 and III-2 and summarized below:



- 20 -
Official Sector Primary and Secondary Schools
(1974)
% of        No. of           Number   % of Un-       % of
Number     Age         Students        of Total  qualified  Expatriate
Enrolled   Group /1  Completing p.a.  Teachers   Teachers   Teachers
Primary
School
(grades 1-7)  104,000    70%          11,000            3,000       33%          10%
Secondary
School:
Junior       5,800                  1,500
(grades
8-10)
Senior
(grades
11-12)      1,300                    500
Total
(grades
8-12)       7,100    13%           2,000              350       10%          80%
/1     Includes overaged students.
3.03      The post-secondary education system is designed to provide trained
personnel to meet specialized manpower needs. Since expansion of the enroll-
ments in secondary schools has been slow, Botswana has only a small pool of
students qualified for places in post-secondary institutions. The principal
institutions which provide skilled and semi-skilled manpower are: the National
Center for Vocational Training (NCVT) which trains craftsmen and technicians;
the Botswana Agricultural College (BAC) which trains agricultural technicians
and community development workers; the Nurse Training School which trains
nurses at three levels; the University of Botswana and Swaziland (UBS) 1/
which provides both diploma and degree level education; and the teacher
training colleges which train teachers for the primary schools. The quanti-
tative aspects of these post-secondary educational institutions are presented
below:
1/   The University, until August 1975, served Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland (UBLS). Lesotho withdrew from the federated University
in September 1975 leaving only Botswana and Swaziland in the federa-
tion (UBS).



- 21 -
Post-Secondary Institutions
Institution                            Enrollment              Teachers
National Center for
Vocational Training
(grades 11-17)                         250                      18
Botswana Agricultural
College (grades 11-14)                 180                      15
Nurses Training School
(grades 11-15)                         300                      10
University of Botswana
and Swaziland                          300                       75
Teacher Training:
Primary (grades 11-12)                 380                       35
Secondary (grades 13-15)                72                        6
3.04      Primary and secondary education are designed to prepare students
for the next level of education rather than to give them the background on
which to build on-the-job training and experience and play a productive role
for the development of the country. Too little time and attention are de-
voted to practical studies in agriculture, handicrafts or domestic science,
although a new course in development studies has recently been introduced
and includes some of these elements.
3.05      The administration and operation of the education system has been
rather inefficient and inadequate until recently, largely because of the
lack of qualified administrative staff. For example, in 1974 there were
only 10 inspectors to cover the 310 primary schools scattered over the coun-
try whose area is as large as that of Kenya. In the past, the recurrent and
capital costs of primary education have been the responsibility of the Local
Councils with only limited government grant support, and the Ministry of
Education (MOE) exercised little control over teacher qualifications, teach-
ing methods and materials or the quality of school facilities. However,
beginning in 1976, the MOE will recruit and pay all teachers and will con-
trol all subventions for school construction. In addition, the Government
has taken several steps to strengthen and improve educational administration.
Among these are the appointment of experienced senior administrators, the
establishment of a planning unit and the development of a Unified Teaching
Service (UTS) to supervise teacher recruitment, promotion and salary plans
and the creation of a curriculum reform unit. A National Commission for



- 22 -
Education has been established and the Commission is undertaking a review
of the content of the system with technical assistance from the Ford Foun-
dation. These changes indicate that the Government is taking concrete steps
to reorient the formal education system.
The Nonformal Education System
3.06      The National Development Plan for 1973-78 states that "during the
Plan period, it is planned to draw up a national policy on nonformal education."
To achieve this aim the Plan states that "the portfolio responsibility for
nonformal education is vested in the Ministry of Education, and it is planned
to establish in the Ministry a post for an Adult Education Officer who will
be responsible for the coordination of nonformal education activities."
Little, however, has been done to provide a national structure for nonformal
education. The present situation is that there are a great many agencies
involved, among them the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Finance and
Development Planning, Local Government and Lands, Education, Commerce and
Home Affairs and the Office of the President. There is also the Extra-Mural
Department of the University, Radio Botswana and a considerable number of
independent community organizations. Within the Ministry of Education
there are two of the most important providers of nonformal education; namely,
the Botswana Extension College and the Youth Brigades. The Youth Brigades
provide vocational training for wage employment for primary school leavers.
3.07      The content of nonformal education falls into three categories:
(i) skill training of considerable variety, provided mainly by the opera-
tional ministries and the Youth Brigades, and, in the case of women, by com-
munity organizations; (ii) "second chance" education, including literacy;
and (iii) programs designed to develop greater social awareness and involve-
ment in the life of the country.
3.08      Each agency is largely responsible for developing its own programs
and course content. Determined efforts, however, are now being made to pro-
mote cooperation between the agencies through the newly established Rural
Extension Coordinating Committee (RECC) of the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning (MFDP) whose membership includes all of the ministries
involved in rural development.
Principal Issues in Education and Training
3.09      Administration and Management.  As noted in para. 3.05, in the
past, the education system has suffered from weak planning and management.
Though steps are being taken to correct these deficiencies, it will take
some time for these measures to take effect. The fact that the MOE has
had no fiscal responsibility for the primary school system has led to virtual
lack of control of the content and quality of the teaching program at the
first and most important level of the formal education system which, as a
result, rests on a weak base. The absence of central control over teacher
recruitment, evaluation and promotion has led to increased teacher turnover,
lower quality of teaching and general dissatisfaction and low morale. The
changes which are now underway, should improve many of these deficiencies and
should be carefully monitored to ensure that they are effective.



- 23 -
3.10      More than ten government agencies and ministries are involved in
Botswana's educational training efforts, particularly, in the rural train-
ing programs. This has led to duplications of efforts, staff and facili-
ties and to inter-ministerial rivalries and disputes. Two years ago, the
MFDP set up the RECC to oversee all of these activities, to eliminate dupli-
cation and to replace rivalry with coordination and inter-ministerial support
(para. 3.08). The Committee included representatives of all of the relevant
ministries, was given full authority to arbitrate disputes and, since it was
chaired by a representative of the government's financial arm,-et has de-
veloped considerable authority. It is too early to evaluate its effective-
ness but it appears that the Committee is making progress in developing
inter-ministerial cooperation.
3.11      External Productivity.  The principal objective of education in
Botswana is to provide trained manpower to carry out the nation's development
plans. However, this objective has not been attained and the economy suffers
from a serious shortage of trained manpower (para. 2.19). The enrollments at
the secondary and post-secondary school levels fall far short of providing the
trained manpower required. In addition, the present curricula are not de-
signed to prepare students for effective participation in the modern sector
(para. 3.04).
3.12      The nonformal education and training programs provide only a small
supply of trainees prepared to enter the modern sector. The largest supplier
is the Youth Brigades which produce approximately 700 skilled and semi-
skilled workers p.a. The short-course, in-service training programs at the
NCVT for technicians, and the Botswana Training Center (BTC), which trains
government clerical and administrative personnel, make important but insuffi-
cient contributions. At present, there is no facility for training commercial
employees for the private sector. The Government has recently completed an
agreement with the British Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) to construct a
facility for this purpose on the BTC campus. Teachers and teacher trainers
will be supplied by the ILO. The Ministry of Health trains nurses and health
assistants but not in sufficient numbers to meet the demands. The two exten-
sion services, the Botswana Extension College (BEC) and the UBS Division of
Extra-Mural Services (DEMS) make only a modest contribution to training for
wage employment. All of these programs are in need of improved direction
and staffing and all should be enlarged and improved to enable them to make
greater contributions to the modern sector. The shortage of teachers and
instructors emphasizes the need to carefully define development priorities
so that maximum use of scarce resources can be made.
3.13      At the third educational level, student places are limited and
the number of students who qualify for advanced education with acceptable
scores at the COSC level is below the number of student places available
for further training at the UBS, the NCVT, the BAC and other post-secondary
educational institutions (para. 3.03). This is the result of several
factors:  (i) the low level of teachiing quality and inappropriate curricu-
lum at the secondary level; (ii) poor student performance in mathematics and
science at the secondary level which precludes their entry to many post-
secondary educational institutions; and (iii) inappropriate examinations



- 24 -
at the JC and COSC levels. At the university level also, the majority of
students enroll in arts and social studies courses because of their inadequate
background in mathematics and science. The UBS task force is investigating the
future role of the UBS. It has the mandate to make specific recommendations
regarding this arts-science imbalance and to make suggestions regarding the
introduction of a two-year terminal university course. In contrast with the
present four-year degree course, this could provide a larger and more rapid
supply of "junior" specialists who would be encouraged to return to the
university after a period of employment.
3.14      The formal education system provides little support for the
traditional, or small holders sector of the economy, even though this sec-
tor accounts for 80% of the total population. And despite the fact that most
of the primary school leavers cannot find places to continue into secondary
schools, the primary education curriculum is still directed toward prepara-
tion for entry into secondary education rather than preparation for life
and work in the traditional agricultural sector (para. 3.04).  One of the
major efforts of the National Commission of Education will be to reorientate
the primary school curriculum to provide a meaningful terminal education
for the large majority of primary school leavers who are not expected to
have access to secondary education.  The only available channel, other than
secondary education, as a route into the modern sector for 11,000 primary
school leavers is the Youth Brigades Program which can accommodate about 700
participants p.a. The secondary school curriculum is also in urgent need of
redirection and reform.  However,-because of the limited enrollments and the
demands of the labor market (para. 2.07), most of those who complete at either
the junior (JC) or senior (COSC) secondary levels have almost automatic access
to wage employment or further specialized training.
3.15      The nonformal education and training programs, though limited in
scope and size, have responded much more directly to the needs of the tra-
ditional sector. The agricultural and veterinary extension program is meet-
ing part of the needs though a great deal remains to be done (paras. 2.26-
2.27). In the health services field, the village health training provided
by trained nurses and medical technicians is supported by the schools and
Radio-Botswana and appears to be effective in reaching large segments of
the population.
3.16      The two adult education institutions, BEC and DEMS, are poten-
tially important agents in rural education. The BEC has a radio/corres-
pondence training program directed at the 4B clubs (young farmer clubs similar
to the American 4-H Clubs) 1/ and is preparing a major educational program to
be launched in 1976 to explain and support the new Tribal Lands Development
Program which gives the Central Government control over the distribution and
use of all agricultural and grazing land (para. 2.05). The DEMS has been
actively engaged in a variety of rural education programs, most notably their
successful effort in 1974 to explain the national development plan to the
farmers and to enlist their support and participation. These nonformal
1/   The four "Hs" in the American version stand for:  Head, Heart, Hands, and
Health. The 4-B Botswana version is similar but using Setswana words.



- 25 -
education efforts and others are well-intentioned and useful but they lack
the staff, facilities and expertise to meet the needs of the scattered and
dispersed farm population.
3.17      Internal Efficiency.  The completion rate of primary school students
was approximately 50% until recent years. However, in the last three years it
has been improving steadily and is now approaching 80%. Much of this improve-
ment is due to a 1973 reduction in students' school fees. At the secondary
level, it is the policy of Government to allow only 50% of the students to
continue beyond the JC (three year) level to the full COSC (five year) level
(para. 3.02).
3.18      The supply of Batswana teachers at the primary and secondary school
levels is inadequate. One-third of the 3,400 teachers at the primary level
are untrained and 80% at the secondary level are expatriates. A major in-
service training program is underway to upgrade the teaching ability of the
untrained primary teachers. Enrollments at the three primary teacher training
colleges will be increased by 100% during the next five years and by 1985 90%
of the teachers are expected to be qualified. At the secondary level, the
major problems are the brief average tenure (two years) of the expatriate
teachers and the variety of educational backgrounds from which they stem.
Both of these disrupt the continuity of the teaching process and have serious
negative effects on the level of student learning. One of the first tasks of
the recently established Unified Teaching Service (para. 3.05) has been to
extend the length of the initial contract to five years, increase the
emoluments and mount an active recruitment program in West African countries,
i.e., Ghana and Nigeria. In addition, the Government plans to double the
present annual output of secondary school teachers by 1980. Even with this
increase, 10% of the secondary school teachers will still be expatriates in
1985.
3.19      The Botswana Examination Council operates under the UBS and
prepares the Primary School Leaver Examinations (PSLE) and the JC examina-
tions. The COSC is prepared and graded by the Cambridge Overseas School
Certificate Council in England. The pass rates have been high at the PSLE
level (90%) and the JC level (82%) but low at the COSC level (48%). This
poor performance at the COSC level has led to a comprehensive evaluation
of the external examiner system. The Government is considering the possi-
bility of gradually phasing out the external examinations and replacing them
with locally prepared and graded examinations under the Examinations Council.
It is expected that this will result in examinations which are more pertinent
to the curriculum and the Botswana school situation and, therefore, a higher
pass rate. First steps towards this revision will be taken during 1976.
3.20      Equity in Education Opportunities.  The government's goal is to
provide universal primary education by 1990. The progress toward the univer-
sal primary education goal is retarded by the widely and sparsely scattered
population patterns in the desert regions. This situation was partially
corrected during the recent (1972-1974) Accelerated Rural Development Pro-
gram during which the Government built 400 additional classrooms. This pro-
gram will be continued, at a slower pace, through the 1980s. Secondary



- 26 -
schools are almost entirely concentrated along the eastern section of the
country where population concentrations are heaviest (para. 2.09). Although
most schools provide some boarding facilities, and the top 24% of students
passing the PSLE are assigned places as close to home as is possible, those
living in the Central and Western sections do not have equal access to
secondary education because of the additional costs of sending students away
to boarding schools and the lower quality of primary education in these sec-
tions. Most of the new secondary schools will be sited in these rural areas.
However, expansion will need to be controlled primarily because of the lack
of teachers.
3.21      Conclusion.  To summarize, this review of the issues of Botswana
in education development points to the following educational priorities:
(1) to expand enrollments at all levels of education so as
to provide the additional manpower required, to equalize
educational opportunities and to reduce inequalities in
future incomes;
(2) to revise the curricula of the formal education system to
make them more relevant to Botswana's needs and to better
prepare students for urban and rural employment;
(3) to strengthen and expand the education and training
programs for youths and adults in the rural areas;
(4) to expand and improve the nonformal education programs
including the BAC, DEMS, farmer and health training; and
(5) to improve and strengthen the administration of the educa-
tional system and inter-ministerial coordination with
respect to nonformal education programs.
Financing Educational Development
3.22      Since 1970 the Government has begun to take increasing responsi-
bility for education financing, both for capital and recurrent costs. At
the primary school level, the Government has provided financial support
through grants for education to the District and Town Councils through the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands (MLGL). The Government has now rec-
ognized that this method of financing deprived the MOE of control over
teachers' qualifications, course content or school facilities. Accordingly,
from 1976 all primary school teacher's salaries will be financed by the MOE
(para. 3.05).
3.23      At the secondary school level, the Government has taken full finan-
cial responsibility for ten of the 15 existing official schools. The other
five schools are provided with grants through the MOE and all schools must
meet the MOE standards of teacher qualifications, curricula, student/teacher
ratios and other criteria. By the end of 1976 the MOE will, therefore, be in
control of the formal school system.



- 27 -
3.24      The present and projected recurrent expenditure for education is
presented in Annexes 111-3 and III-4 and is summarized below. The increase in
expenditure for the MOE from 1976 over 1974 reflects the shift of the cost of
primary school teacher salaries from the MLGL to the MOE budget.
Recurrent Expenditure on Education
1974 - 1985 Projections
(in Rand million)
Projections
1974       1976            1980            1985
MOE Expenditure        4.0        12.0            18.0           22.0
Expenditure of other
Education Programs    4.0          3.0             4.0            5.0
Total Expenditure      8.0        15.0            22.0           27.0
% of Total Public
Expenditure           20%        25%              27%            26%
In view of the projected increases in government revenue during this period,
these estimated increases in recurrent expenditures for education appear to
be reasonable.
3.25      Student support, in the form of bursaries, is now provided for
secondary school students who cannot afford to pay school fees and boarding
costs. In 1974, one-fourth of the secondary school students received
bursaries which covered all or part of the students' costs. This financial
support, which amounted to 8% of the MOE recurrent budget in 1974, insures
that, by and large, qualified students have the opportunity of attending
school even though the family cannot afford to pay all of the costs.
3.26      Projections of capital expenditures for education for the 1976-
1981 period reflect the fact that the rate of expansion is limited by the
supply of teachers available and other factors. The projected costs, and
the expected sources of finance, are presented below:
Capital Costs of Education
Sources of Finance (in R million)
Estimated Capital Investment:                    Botswana    Bilateral       World
Government    Donors         Bank
1976 to 1981 = R 15.0 million
4.0         2.0          9.0
Bilateral donors, identified at the present time, include the following:



- 28 -
Donor                    Institution                            Amount
ODM                      Commercial Training College            R 500,000
Denmark (ILO Trust)      Commercial College Instructors           500,000
Sweden                   Rural Development Projects               200,000
USAID                    Curriculum Revision                      200,000
Ford Foundation:         BEC (technical assistance)               200,000
Education Sector Survey                  100,000
UBS Management Training Institute        300,000
TOTAL                                          R2,000,000
Capital expenditure on education and training are expected to account for 5%
of the public investment programs over the 1976-1981 period. This proportion
could be increased and a more ambitious program developed if constraints on
teachers availability were reduced.
Education Objectives, Strategy and Investment Programs
3.27      The central objective of the National Development Plan is "Kagisano"
- the spreading of the benefits of development to all the people (para. 2.01).
In this context, the objectives of educational development in Botswana are:
(i) to expand enrollments and to improve access to education so that educa-
tional opportunities may be open tb the maximum number of people, (ii) to
ensure that the expansion of educational facilities is undertaken with due
regard to the needs of rural as much as urban dwellers of all ages, and
(iii) to reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of educational
programs so that the country is provided with the trained personnel required
(paras. 2.39 and 3.21).
3.28      To improve access to education and to place proper emphasis on the
needs of rural areas, the government strategy consists of (i) continuing the
planned growth of primary education, (ii) the expansion and improvement of
the secondary and post-secondary systems, with special reference to the needs
of the rural population, (iii) the provision of rural educational centers to
provide both formal and nonformal education, as is appropriate to the needs
of the community being served, and (iv) increasing the emphasis on nonformal
education through enlarging the provision of distance teaching and improving
facilities for skill training for men, women and youths. During the Plan
period, primary enrollments are expected to rise to 80% of the 7-13 age group
and universal primary education will be available by the late 1980's. Enroll-
ment in the secondary system will be expanded to accommodate 40% of those who
complete the primary cycle (Annex III-2). This expansion of secondary school
enrollment is justified in terms of the manpower requirements of Botswana, by
the need to accelerate localization, and in compliance with the policy of
spreading the benefits of growth throughout the country. Any student eligible
for enrollment in secondary education who is unable to afford the costs will
be subsidized by government bursaries (para. 3.25). During the period there
will be an expansion of primary teacher training at the Colleges from the
present annual output of 190 to 410.  The output of secondary school teachers
from UBS will be increased from the present 24 p.a. to 85 p.a.  Enrollments



- 29 -
in post-secondary institutions such as nursing training, the Agricultural
College, the NCVT and the University will also be increased gradually in line
with manpower needs and the availability of qualified students and teachers.
3.29      The development of rural educational centers concerned with both
formal and nonformal programs is expected to help bring educational provi-
sion to all sectors of the population. This will be further strengthened
by increasing the work capacity of the Botswana Extension College and the
number and size of the Youth Brigades. There will be improvements at national
and regional levels for the coordination of activities in nonformal education,
thus ensuring that unnecessary duplication of effort is eliminated and con-
sequently releasing more resources for the educational system as a whole.
Finally, there will be a concerted effort to develop close links between the
schools and the communities they serve.
3.30      To reorient the content and increase the effectiveness of educa-
tional programs so that the country is provided with the trained personnel it
requires, the Government will (i) continue to support the work on curriculum
reform in the primary schools to make primary education more productive and
responsive to the needs of rural development; (ii) make the changes necessary
in the secondary curriculum to ensure that the emphasis is on preparation for
employment and rural development; and (iii) reorient the teacher training
programs in line with these changes in the curricula to ensure that the
emphasis is shifted to the practical subjects and that teachers are trained to
enable them to play a direct role in village and community development.
3.31      The Government investment program in education is based on the
strategy outlined in the previous paragraphs and on their Fourth National
Development Plan and comprises:
(a)  expansion of the secondary school enrollment, through
extension to existing schools and the addition of five
new schools over the next five years;
(b)  improvement and expansion of the teacher training programs
for both primary and secondary school teachers. Changes
in the content and methods of teaching will be required
to reflect the planned changes in the curricula at both
levels;
(c)  expansion and improvement of existing post-secondary educa-
tion programs including those at the UBS, the BAC and the
NCVT;
(d)  support and expansion of the adult education program in all
of its elements: health, nutrition, agriculture, animal
husbandry, literacy, etc. The principal vehicle for these
improvements would be the Botswana Extension College
(para. 4.08). Facilities and staff would be provided and
additional time on Radio Botswana would be allotted;



- 30 -
(e) expansion and improvement of the existing Youth Brigades
Program to provide training for employment for primary
school leavers; and
(f) development of a rural education program, both
formal and nonformal, for youths and adults in several
centers easily accessible to the rural population.
Initially, only one of the centers would be constructed
to allow a period of experimentation and exploration.
After the trial period, and as a second stage, three to
five additional centers would be constructed or added to
existing facilities such as junior secondary schools and
farmer training centers.
Cost and financing of the investment program are outlined in para. 3.26.
3.32      The proposed project would assist the Government in the first phase
of its education development program. The outcome of the studies which the
National Commission for Education is now undertaking (para. 3.05), will
provide detailed guidelines for the future development of the education
system. The following are important, however, among the needs for long-term
educational development: (i) expansion and diversification of the primary
school system; (ii) provision of facilities required to develop and dissem-
inate the teaching and learning materials related to the curricula reform
program; (iii) additional support for the development of an effective adult
education system including facilities for radio and correspondence courses;
(iv) assistance to the UBS in the conversion from a two-year to a four-year
degree granting institution; (v) expansion of the present BAC program to
provide increased numbers of agricultural, veterinary and community develop-
ment technicians; (vi) expansion of the Rural Education Center program
initiated in the proposed project, which might include the provision of
additional rural training facilities at the three rural secondary schools
included in the project; and (vii) support for the further expansion of the
Youth Brigades Program. These, and other programs emerging from the studies
of the National Commission for Education, could provide the content for
possible second and third Bank-assisted projects in the late 1970s and early
1980s respectively.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTION OF PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND TRAINED TEACHER REQUIREMENT AND SUPPLY
1975-1985
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1983       1985
(actual) (estimate)
1.  Total Enrollment 1.          103,710   115,600   124,510   133,180   141,610   148,270   150,890   153,270   158,030   162,790
2.  Teachers Required 2/           3,050      3,400      3,660      3,920     4,170      4,360       4,440      4,510      4,650      4,790
3. Teachers Available
(a)                 2,050      2,190      2,370      2,540      2,690      3,030      3,360       3,680      3,990      4,280
(b)                 2,050      2,150      2,290      2,410      2,520      2,820      3,100       3,370      3,620      3,R50
4. Teacher available as
% of total required
(a)                  67.2       64.4       64.8       64.8       64.5       69.5        75.7       81.6       85.8       89.4
(b)                  67.2       63.2       62.6       61.2       60.4       64.7        69.8       74.7       77.8       80.4
5. Wastage of Teachers
(a)  3/                 50         60         60         70         70         80         90        100        120        120
(b)  4/                 90       100        100         110        110        130        140        160        180        190
6.  New supply of teachers           190        240        220        220        410        410        410        410        410        410
7. Net increase of teachers
(a)                   140        180        160         150        340        330        320        310        290        220
(b)                   100         140        120        110        300        280        270        250        230        220
(All figures are rounded)
1/    Enrollment increase is calculated on the assumption that the number of Standard I streams will increase by 10 p.a.
2/    Derived from the number of streams, i.e., one teacher per stream.  On average, teacher/pupil ratio is I to 34.
3/    An assumption of 3% p.a.
4/    An assumption of 5% p.a.
Sources' Ministry of Education and Bank Staff estimates.                                                               January 1976



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTION OF SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND TRAINED TEACHER REQUIREMENT AND SUPPLY
1975-1985
1974     1975      1976     1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1983       1985
1.  Total Enrollment 1/              7,055    8,434    9,580    10,150    10,750    11,440    12,220    12,650    13,000    13,100
2.  Teachers Required 2                396       436      485        523        568        616       653        675        685        685
3.  Teachers available 3/               70        92       133       175        216        260       307        353        470        610
4. Teachers available as
% of teachers reqtiired           17.7      21.1     27.4       33.5       38.0      42.2       47.0       52.3       68.6      89.1
5. Wastage of teachers
(3% p.a.)                            2         3        4          5          6         8          9         11         14        18
6.  New supply of teachers
(a)  A.T.C.    4/             12        20         -        18         20         25         25        25         55         55
(b)  Graduates 5/             12        24        24        28         30         30         30        30         30         30
(c)  Total                     24       44        24        46         50         55         55        55         85         85
7.  Net increase of teachers            22        41        20        41         44         47        46         44         71         67
1/  Includes only government and aided secondary schools.
2/ Calculated by taking total number of classes in all schools and multiplying it by 1.5. Headmasters and practical subjects
teachers are then added to that total to arrive at figure for "Teachers Required".
3/ Trained local teachers only. In 1974 there were about 280 expatriate teachers.
4/ Teachers from the three-year Advanced Teachers' Certificate course at the UBS.
5/  Teachers from the four-year course at the UBS.
Sources: Ministry of Education  and Bank staff estimates.                                                   January 1976



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
RECTRRENT EXPENDITUlE ON EDUCATION/TRAINING. 1971/72 - 1985/86
(Rand 000s)
Central 2/       Local Council Exrenditure         Total -/                Education/Training Exoenditure                   Educ./Tra. ExP. as 7. of Total ExPenditure
Gov't Exp.    From Central   From                  Public        Ministry           Other 5/                                         6           6+7           9
gov't 3/     Others   Total        Exp.       of Education       Ministries       Councils       Total              I            1            5
(1)             (2)          (3)      (4)        (5)              (6)              (7)            (8)           (9)            (10)           (11)         (12)
1971/72                18,347              435       2,435    2,874      20,782           1,762              800           1,715        4,277             9.6          14.0         20.6
1972/73                20,642              470       2,937    3,407      23,579            2,046           1,000           1,955        5,001             9.9          14.8         21.2
1973/74                26,506            1,325       2,506    3,831      29,012           2,494            1,100           2,385        5,979             9.4          13.6         20.6
1974/75                37,590            3,085       2,449    5,534      40,039           3,959            1,500           2,582        8,041            10.5          14.5         20.1
1975/76                46,889            3,756       6,173    9,929      53,062           5,022            1,900           4,520       11,442            10.7          14.8         21.6
1976/77                49,233            3,500       8,000   11,500      57,233          11,714 -/         2,100             600 -    14,414             23.8          28.1         25.2
1980/81                69,500              -           -         -         -             17,760            3,190             -           -               25.6          30.1          -
1985/86                93,000              -           -         -         -              21,730           3,880             -           -               23.4          27.5          -
Average Growth Rate p.a.
1971/72-1975/76           26.0             -           -       36.0        26.0             30.0            24.0             _           28.0
1976/77-1980/81            9.0             -           -         -         -                11.0            11.0             -             _
1980/81-1985/86            6.0             -           -                                     4.0             4.0             -             -
1/    1971/72 to 1974/75 expenditures are actual, 1975/76 revised estimate, 1976/77 estimate, and 1980/81 and 1985/86 expenditures are projected at 1975/76 prices.
2/    Excludes public debt and appropriations (to Development Fund, Revenue Stabilization Fund and Public Debt Servicing).
3/    Includes school fee subsidies and deficit grant.
4/    Includes only columns (1) and (3) to avoid double counting.
5/    Includes training programs under the Directorate of Personnel and the Ministry of Agriculture.
6/    A preliminary estimate.  The introduction of the Unified Teaching Service will transfer the primary school teachers' payment, about R 6 million
in 1976/77, from Local Councils to the HOE.
Sources:   Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
Ministry of Local Government and Lands.
Ministry of Education and Bank staff estimates.                                                                                 January 1976



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED RECURRENT EXPENDITURE OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION. 1976-85
(R 000s at 1975 prices)
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981        1983       1985       1976-1980    1980-i985
Administration                          330        370        410       450        490        520         560        600         10.5         4.1
Primary Education                     5,500      6,220      6,780     7,330      7,920      8,480      9,720    11,140           9.6           7.1
Secondary Education 2                 2,930      3,170      3,400     3,590      3,760      3,800      3,870      3,920           6.5         0.9
Primary Teacher Training                240        240        350       450        450        450         450       450         17.1             -
Vocational Training 3                   630        760        970     1,150      1,330      1,460       1,520     1,580          20.7          3.5
4/
Higher Education                      2,070      2,480      2,980     3,430      3,810      3,970      4,050      4,050          16.5          1.2
Total                                11,700    13,240    14,890    16,400    17,760    18,680          20,170    21,740          11.0          4.1
1/ Includes allowance for the Botswana Extension College.
2/ Includes technical secondary schools.
3/ Includes the National Center for Vocational Training and Brigade.
4/  Includes the UBS and higher education costs in other third countries.
5/ The total recurrent expenditure generated from a proposed first education project is estimated at R 1.4 million in
1981 when all the proposed facilities are expected to be fully utilized. This expenditure will be about 7.5% of
the projected total expenditure of the Ministry of Education.
Sources:  Ministry of Education; Bank staff estiuate.                                           January 1976



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID - 1974
AS A % OF    EDUCATION
AGE GROUP  LEVEL                                                        MALE                    FEMALE                                                                   TOTALS
60  40                                                                                 100
LESS THAN    UNIVERSITY                                                              70 40                                                                                  110
1%            YEARS
44 15                                                                                   59
78  31                                                                                 109
378
319    212                                                                                531
13%       SECONDARY                                                          426      294                                                                               720
3%   FORMS
FORMS  859 _  791                                                                          1650
947    845                                                                                  1792
1103              1259                                                                        2362
7055
6178                                                                         J 7633                                     13811
5030                                                             6273                                            11303
5083                                                            *6289                                             11372
7%   PRIMARYI
70%
5190                                                              6177                                             11367
6419                '                                                            7837                                    14256
9460                                                                                                               11386                 20846
9738                                                                                                                11018                  20756
_    I l    l    l        I    I l    E     l    l    l     l    l  l    l                l l r   I      I    I     I    I    l                  103711                 >
12   11   10   9    8    7    6    5   4    3    2    1    0    1   2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11  12
(IN THOUSANDS)
World Bank-15490



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
TECHNICIAN
CRAFT TRAINING    TRAINING
TYPIST              SECRETARIAL
TRAINING            TRAINING
1                      1i
PRIMARY              SECONDARY
TEACHER              TEACHER                   THIRD LEVEL
BRIGADES            TRAINING             TRAINING                   TRAINING ABROAD
JUNIOR              SENIOR               U.B.S.                     U.B.S.
PRIMARY                                   SECONDARY           SECONDARY            PART I                     PART II
EMPLOYMENT                                                           EMPLOYMENT
AGRICULTURAL         AGRICULTURAL
CERTIFICATE LEVEL    DIPLOMA LEVEL
TRAINING             TRAINING
PUPIL NURSES'        STUDENT NURSES'
TRAINING             TRAINING
EMPLOYMENT           EMPLOYMENT
World Bank-15491



- 37 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The educational development objectives of Botswana are to meet the
manpower needs of the modern sector, to improve the knowledge and skill levels
of the adult population, to prepare primary school leavers for employment
in the wage economy and to provide access to educational opportunity and skill
training for the rural population to increase their productivity (para. 3.30).
To help attain these objectives the proposed project would: (i) increase the
available secondary school places by 30%; (ii) provide additional secondary
school teachers to replace expatriate teachers and meet expansion needs; (iii)
expand existing adult education programs to provide formal and nonformal
educational opportunities for out-of-school youths and adults; (iv) develop
the Youth Brigades Program to train primary school leavers for wage employment;
and (v) establish a multipurpose education development center to serve the
needs of the western Kalahari region. The proposed project consists of:
(a) the provision of buildings, furniture and equipment
for the following institutions;
Existing    Approximate Number of
Capacity     Additional Capacity
Type of Institution           (Places)    Full-Time   Part-Time    Total
(1)  Secondary Schools         8,400        2,100           0       10,500
(2)  Additional facilities
for Secondary
Teacher Training             24           96           0          120
(3)  The Botswana Extension
College                   1,000 /I         0       9,000       10,000 /1
(4)  The Botswana Youth
Brigades                  2,000 /1    1,500            0        3,500 /1
(5)  The Kalahari Multipurpose
Educational Center            0         320 /2    3,600 /3    3,920
TOTAL                    11,424        4,016      12,600       28,040
/1   Indicates number of participants p.a. rather than "student places."
/2   Places in Junior Secondary School.
/3   Assuming two-thirds occupancy of 320 student places for one-week
courses during the four-month vacation period equals 3,600
part-time adults p.a.
(b)  development of a Project Implementation Unit; and
(c) evaluation and pre-investment studies.



- 38 -
Project Items
4.02      Junior Secondary Schools.  The development of Botswana's secondary
school system has been slow as compared with neighboring countries. One in-
teresting feature of secondary school development is that only one of the 15
existing schools was built by the Government. All the others were started by
private interests, tribal groups or missionary societies. This lag in the
development of secondary schools has left the country with a very small pool
of COSC level graduates. This has had adverse effects on the supply of high
and middle level manpower, has retarded development plans and has forced the
country to rely greatly on expatriates (para. 2.19). Following the 1972 Man-
power Survey, the Government recognized the urgency of increased secondary
school enrollments and began an active program of expanding the existing
schools. The program of expansion of existing schools has now been completed
and additional schools are required. The Government has decided to build five
new junior secondary schools in addition to the school to be provided as part
of the Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center (para. 4.16). Two of the
proposed schools would be day schools and three would be mixed day and boarding
schools. The day schools would be located in Gaborone and Francistown where
there is sufficient population density to provide the students required. The
other three schools would be located in rural areas adjacent to potential
growth points: one near the diamond mine (Orapa); one near the meat process-
ing center (Lobatse); and one near the copper-nickel mine (Selebi-Pikwe). The
population density in the areas surrounding these schools is sufficient to
provide the required student flow.
4.03      The schools would cater to boys and girls and in the initial phase
would provide education up to the JC (grade 10) level. Facilities for the
senior level (grades 11 and 12) would be added at a later date. The schools
would provide facilities for practical subjects such as workshops, domestic
science, handicrafts and agricultural skills. The practical studies facilities
at the three rural schools would be constructed in a manner to make them
readily convertible to the Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center model
(para. 4.16) when that institution has been judged successful. During off-
hours and vacation periods the schools would be used by adults and out-of-
school youths for crafts, agricultural and other special skill training. It is
the intention of the Government to integrate the schools closely with village
and community development and they would therefore become focal points of the
development program. Teachers and students would be expected to become active
participants in development activities which would provide additional emphasis
to the practical aspects of secondary education.
4.04      Secondary School Teacher Training.  There are 350 secondary school
teachers, 80% of whom are expatriates. More than one-third of the expatriate
teachers are volunteers from the Peace Corps and similar institutions, and
those teachers hired on contracts serve short periods of service.  The average
tenure for both groups is about two years (para. 3.18). This rapid turnover,
plus the wide variety of educational background represented, disrupts the
teaching process and interferes with the students' learning. This is particu-
larly true in the mathematics and science areas, both of which are vital for



- 39 -
student success in the post-secondary school institutions. The level of learn-
ing in these two areas is so low that the UBS has found it necessary to develop
six-month pre-entry courses in these subjects to enable the students to perform
satisfactorily at the university level. These, and other problems led to the
establishment of the Unified Teaching Service in the MOE (para. 3.05). In
addition to revising the terms of service for all teachers, the Unified
Teaching Service has given special attention to expatriate teacher recruitment
at the secondary level since, due to the low output of local secondary school
teachers, a half of the secondary school teachers in 1980 will still be
expatriates. In addition to increasing the emoluments for expatriate teachers,
the Unified Teaching Service has extended the contract period to five years
and has launched an aggressive recruiting program in West Africa (para. 3.18).
4.05      The low annual output of local secondary teachers (40 p.a.) is the
result of the shortage of qualified candidates and lack of training facili-
ties at UBS where secondary teacher training is provided. There are two
levels of teacher qualification:  (a) the Advanced Teacher Certificate
(ATC), a three-year post-secondary diploma course which qualifies teachers
at the junior secondary school level; and (b) the four-year Bachelor of
Education degree course which qualifies teachers at the senior secondary
school level. At both levels teachers specialize in subject areas
(English, science, mathematics, etc.) and are given general pedagogical
training as well. The MOE is increasingly interested in the ATC program
for two reasons: (i) enrollees do not need full COSC accreditation to
qualify since it is diploma, not a degree, program; therefore, therte are
more candidates available; and (ii) the wastage rate of ATC teachers is
lower than that of the degree teachers because they are not as vulnerable
to outside employment offers since they do not have university degrees.
However, the ATC program is relatively new and ATC teachers are promised
the opportunity to return to UBS for degree work after three years of teach-
ing service.
4.06      There are now 120 students enrolled in junior secondary teacher
training programs and the output is about 40 p.a. The Government is plan-
ning to increase the number of places by 96 which would increase the output
of teachers to about 75 p.a. If this output is continued, and the increase
in secondary school enrollment is controlled as planned, 90% of the expa-
triate teachers will be replaced by 1985. The proposed project would provide
the facilities for this planned expansion and, in addition, would provide
quarters and equipment to develop simple teaching materials. Changes in the
secondary school curriculum, the addition of practical subjects and the
increased emphasis on community development involvement, justify the inclu-
sion of this curriculum/materials development center in the proposed project.
4.07      The proposed project would provide a 96-bed hostel accommodation
and the teaching materials development center. The materials development
center would include space for a seminar room, offices, a workshop for the
fabrication of teaching aids and facilities for the assembly and handling
of course materials.
4.08      The Botswana Extension College.  The purpose of this College is
similar to that of "extension" colleges found in several developing coun-
tries, namely, the provision of education through the combined use of



- 40 -
correspondence courses, radio and such face-to-face teaching as is possible.
The College was established two years ago with private funds, and it is the
intention of the Government to incorporate it into the permanent nonformal
education program in the country. The College works closely with all the
agencies active in nonformal education, though it is under the supervision
of the Ministry of Education. Its expanded roles would be to provide (i)
support to all the nonformal extension work in the rural areas, (ii) in-service
assistance to primary school teachers, particularly to those working in rural
areas, and (iii) "second-chance" courses at whatever level is in demand.
4.09      At present, the College is providing radio and correspondence
courses for approximately 1,000 students p.a. These are courses primarily
directed toward the completion of academic qualifications for educational
certificates. In addition, the College has developed an active training
program for the Botswana 4-B Club members (para. 3.16) which reaches about
3,000 youths on a regular schedule. The College is engaged in the prepa-
ration of materials for a radio and correspondence program which will be
directed to the rural population to explain the new Tribal Land Develop-
ment Program (para. 2.05). If additional staff and facilities are made
available, the College would take on major responsibilities for the in-
service training program for primary school teachers. With these addi-
tional programs the BEC could reach more than 10,000 youths and adults p.a.
with radio, correspondence and group-training services.
4.10      The project would provide facilities for a service center for the
College in Gaborone. The building would include office accommodation for the
administrative and clerical staff and study rooms for the course writers.
There would also be an area where course material would be produced and
assembled. In addition to storage for bulk supplies of paper, there would be
printing and preparation areas, a dark room and equipment for the production
of teaching aids, a recording studio for radio programs and storage for
completed material.
4.11      To be capable of fulfilling the tasks assigned to it, the College
should have a realistic establishment and budget. The present staff is now
being increased from 11 to 19, with budgetary allowance for part-time course
writers. In addition, the College is being given an adequate allocation of
radio time at periods in the day which are suitable for adult listening.
4.12      The Youth Brigades.  The Botswana Youth Brigades have been developed
over the past ten years as a means of providing mostly cost-covering skill
training for primary school leavers. The system is voluntary; the trainees,
both boys and girls, undergo three years of on-the-job training, their work
and resultant products generating much of the resources needed to maintain the
Brigades. The Government subsidizes the Youth Brigades by paying R 185 p.a.
per student place and giving some assistance for capital expenditures. The
Brigades originate through local initiative; each Brigade is in a particular
skill (carpentry, building, dressmaking are the most common, but there are
also Brigades in farming, motor mechanics, forestry, weaving, etc.), and
several Brigades in a locality join for administrative purposes into a Youth
Brigade Center. At present, there are 12 Centers, with 66 individual Brigades
and about 2,000 trainees. The Youth Brigades Centers are located at Maun,
Tutume, Tonota, Serowe, Palapye, Mahalapye (two Centers), Mochudi, Molepolole,



- 41 -
Ramotswa, L.ebatse and Kanye. There is thus a concentration of Centers along
the eastern suction of Botswana. The purpose of the project is to provide the
Brigades with two features tirgently needed for their continuing development:
(a) A National Brigade Development Center at Gaborone - this faci-
lity is needed to be (i) the administrative and account-
ing center for the movement as a whole and (ii) a training
center for instructors and administrators. Both of these are
needed if Brigades are to be more efficiently administered
and instructors are to learn improved pedagogical skills.
While the instructors are at the Center, they would also
attend upgrading courses at the nearby National Center for
Vocational Training. The Brigade Development Center would
contain the following accommodations: national offices,
dining room and kitchen, library/reading room, group teaching
facilities, and single study-bedrooms for 30 students. The Center
would be built to cater for 50 students, of whom 20 would be non-
residents.
(b) The establishment of three new Brigades Centers and the
improvement of existing Centers in locations and with
specifications (i.e., programs, courses, facilities, etc.)
to be determined by the National Brigade Coordinating
Committee following the procedures outlined at paras. 4.13
and 4.14 below.
4.13      The Brigades Centers consist of a collection of very modest build-
ings built by the Brigade trainees, comprising an administrative office,
teaching space, simple dining and sleeping quarters, and workshops accord-
ing to the particular skills being practiced. Each Center is governed by a
Trust, or Board, made up of interested local residents. Every proposal for
a new Brigade activity is reviewed by the Trust and, if approved, the pro-
posal is forwarded to the National Brigade Coordinating Committee. Govern-
ment financing of a new Brigade proposal is dependent upon the approval of
the National Committee. This method of project approval imposes controls
on the creation of new Brigade Centers and additions to existing Centers.
It also ensures that all new Brigade activities are originated and approved
by the local community. This accounts, in part, for the success of the
Brigades in recovering most of their costs since only projects which are
viable and needed gain local approval. Each Brigade Center has an accountant
and each Brigade within each Center has a bookkeeper. A standard bookkeeping
system has been installed in all Centers and the chief accountant of the
National Committee audits the books regularly.
4.14      It would be neither desirable nor feasible to attempt to predeter-
mine at this stage the locations for the three new Youth Brigade Centers nor
the range of programs which would be required at any given location and the
related improvements in facilities at existing Centers. Therefore, the exist-
ing procedures that maximize community involvement will be adopted. Requests,
after approval by the local Trust and the National Coordinating Committee,
woti4d be supported by details of locations, programs and facilities for
which expenditures are to be made, together with copies of lists of furniture
and equipment and proposed construction contracts with local artisans (if any).



- 42 -
They will be reviewed by the Ministry of Education who would decide whether
they should be supported. Bank staff would review individual sub-projects in
the course of project supervision.
4.15      The project would result in a greatly improved Brigades system, and
would enable Brigades to develop and expand during the forthcoming Plan period.
It is intended that the capacity of the Brigades would increase by some 70%
as a result of the funds available for new Centers and improvements to existing
Centers. This would increase the present enrollment of 2,000 to about 3,500.
Such expansion, however, should be paralleled by upgrading of the instructors
and administrative staff, which would be the task of the proposed National
Brigade Development Center.
4.16      The Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center.  The need to establish
an educational facility in the Western Desert is recognized by Government
on both social and economic grounds. The improvement of the quality of life
in the rural areas is at the center of the Fourth Development Plan (para. 3.31).
A conventional secondary school in the Western Desert would not be appropriate
because the social and economic requirements in that area are different from
those in the Eastern Region where most of the population is clustered. Rather
it is proposed to establish a multipurpose educational facility, catering for
all the diverse needs of the people in the locality. It would thus be a cen-
ter for continuing nonformal education for youths and adults both male and
female, offering training in rural skills; it would be a primary teacher up-
grading center; and it would include a secondary school for 320 pupils using
a curriculum especially designed for rural students. The need to re-examine
the secondary curriculum is recognized by Government (para. 3.14) and the
Center will make a good place to experiment with a reoriented rurally biased
program. The number of adults who would use the Center cannot be determined
with precision; assuming two-thirds of the boarding accommodation is used for
four months of the year during school holidays, 3,600 adults could attend
courses and seminars of one-week duration. The Center compound would even-
tually include facilities provided by Ministries other than Education; e.g.,
offices, training facilities and stores for Agricultural Extension, a clinic
run by the Ministry of Health and a depot for the library services.
4.17      The site chosen would be near the township of Kang, its exact loca-
tion dependent upon the best supply of potable water. Kang is on a main north-
south road which will be improved in 1976-1977 as the major link from east to
west. It is near three concentrations of population and there are 25 primary
schools in the vicinity. The buildings would be designed to meet the needs
of a multipurpose center, but they would be, by and large, based on available
standard plans. The buildings required would include workshops, classrooms,
communal and dining facilities for 320 students and storage facilities. The
boarding facilities for 290 students are required because many of the students
would come from distant localities. In view of the location of the Center and
the envisaged program of work, it would be provided with vehicles, including
one four-wheel drive car for general purposes, one small truck, one minibus,
one large bus and one vehicle equipped for movie projection.
4.18      To be effective the Center would have an establishment of appro-
priately trained staff as follows: (i) a Director with experience in nonfor-
mal education rather than a secondary school headmaster; (ii) three staff for



- 43 -
the nonformal program who have had training in this aspect of education; and
(iii) 17 staff for the secondary school component who can also work in non-
formal education. A Center Council, consisting of local inhabitants and
representatives of all ministries participating in the program, would be
established and given as much autonomy in the operation of the establishment
as possible. The Center would, however, be under the ultimate jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Education. Assurances have been obtained that, within one
year from signing of the Loan Agreements, an organizational structure for the
Center will be developed and discussed with the Bank including the plans for
training facilities of other ministries; a plan for training teachers and
instructors for the Center will be completed; and a suitable curriculum will
be developed for the junior secondary school which would be part of the
Center.
4.19      The benefits of the Center would be twofold.  First, it would pro-
vide the people of the Western Desert with a much needed educational facility,
and in particular, it would ensure that the requirements of all sections of
the community are being heeded and it would promote externalities, specifi-
cally a development pole in the Western Desert. Secondly, it would provide
a prototype for future educational developments in the rural areas; the
lessons learned in the Kalahari will be of general value. The facilities
and programs which are proven successful might be added as part of a later
project to the three rural junior secondary schools to be constructed under
the proposed education project (para. 3.28).
4.20      Project Evaluation.  The proposed project contains several elements
which are innovative and experimental. For this reason, the development of
each element should be carefully monitored and the relative effectiveness
of these elements should be evaluated continuously. As one means of eval-
uating the effectiveness of these changes, the Government is now planning
a student follow-up system which would provide regular information as to
how well students perform in employment situations and how efficient the
educational system is as a supplier of trainees to the labor market. Addi-
tional methods of project evaluation would be developed by che Evaluation
Unit which is being established in the Ministry of Education and would work
in collaboration with the Project Implementation Unit (para. 5.10). After
completion of the project, the Government will prepare and send to the Bank a
report providing a preliminary assessment of the project, of its results and
of the lessons learned during implementation.
V. COST OF THE PROJECT, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEIIENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$15.5 million
equivalent including taxes. The estimated cost and foreign exchange com-
ponent of the various categories of expenditures are given in Annex V-1 and
summarized as follows:



- 44 -
Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditure
Percentage
Rand (million)             US$ (million)    of total
Category             Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign Total base cost
1. Civil Works:
Site development 0.41       0.72      1.13    0.47   0.83    1.30          13
Academic &
communal         0.95      1.68      2.63    1.09   1.93    3.02          29
Student boarding 0.50       0.89      1.39    0.57   1.02    1.59          15
Staff housing    0.52       0.93      1.45    0.60   1.07    1.67          16
Sub-total       2.38      4.22      6.60    2.73   4.85    7.58         73
2.  Furniture          0.14      0.41      0.55    0.16   0.47    0.63          6
3.  Equipment          0.11      1.04      1.15    0.12   1.20    1.32         13
4.  Professional
services /I
and pre-
investment
study            0.04      0.08      0.12    0.05   0.09    0.14           1
5. Technical
Assistance       0.06      0.38      0.44    0.07   0.44    0.51           5
6. Project
Administration  0.14       0.06      0.20    0.16   0.07    0.23           2
Total Base Cost   2.87       6.19      9.06    3.29   7.12   10.41         100
(April 1976)
7. Contingencies:
Unforeseen
events (8%)    0.25       0.50      0.75    0.29   0.57    0.86
Price increase
(37%)           1.19      2.44      3.63    1.38   2.80    4.18
Sub-total         1.44      2.94      4.38    1.67   3.37    5.04
TOTAL PROJECT COST   4.31        9.13    13.44    4.96  10.49   15.45
/1   Includes architectural services for UBS (US$0.04 million equivalent) and
preparation of future project study (US$0.10 million equivalent).



- 45 -
Estimated Cost by Project Ttems
%of        % of
Rand (million)        US$ (million)       Total       Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Base Cost  Exchange
A.   Secondary
Schools         1.38   2.97   4.35    1.59   3.41  5.00         48          68
B.   UBS Teacher
Training        0.12   0.25   0.37    0.14   0.29  0.43          4          67
C.   Botswana
Extension
College         0.04   0.07   0.11    0.04   0.08  0.12          1          67
D.   Youth Brigades   0.58   1.31   1.89    0.66   1.51  2.17          21         69
E.   Kalahari Multi-
purpose
Educational
Center          0.51   1.07   1.58    0.58   1.23  1.81         18          68
Sub-Total        2.63   5.67   8.30    3.01   6.52  9.53         92          68
F.   Professional
Services
and Pre-in-
vestment
Study           0.04   0.08   0.12    0.05   0.09  0.14          1          70
G.   Technical
Assistance      0.06   0.38   0.44    0.07   0.44  0.51          5          85
H.   Adminis-
tration         0.14   0.06   0.20    0.16   0.07  0.23          2          30
Total Base        2.87   6.19   9.06    3.29   7.12 10.41       100          68
Cost (April
1976)
I.   Contingencies:
Unforeseen
Events (8%)     0.25   0.50   0.75    0.29   0.57  0.86
Price Increase
(37%)           1.19   2.44   3.63    1.38   2.80  4.18
Sub-Total         1.44   2.94   4.38    1.67   3.37  5.04
TOTAL PROJECT COST    4.31   9.13  13.44    4.96  10.49 15.45



- 46 -
5.02      Construction, furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on
available drawings as well as information obtained from contractors, archi-
tectural firms and government agencies which have been involved in school
construction, and from recent tenders received by the Government for similar
institutions. The average cost per square meter varies from US$107 for con-
struction in the capital Gaborone, to US$166 in the Kalahari Multipurpose
Educational Center, the differences accruing to the cost of material trans-
pyrtation and site development. These costs compare favorably with costs per
m in other East African countries, e.g., (at 1974 prices) Ethiopia US$120;
Lesotho US$140; and Swaziland US$120.
5.03      Areas per student place and cost per student place in the proposed
new secondary schools, excluding contingency allowances, professional fees and
administration cost, as compared with median gross area and cost, are as
follows:
Median gross
area per stu-           Cost per Student Place
Gross area    dent place        Site
per student   Bank-assisted   devel-   Build-  Furni-  Equip-
place           projects        opment   ings    ture    ment   Total
2               2- - - - -- - - -us$s-- -- - - - -
(M)             (M)
a. Academic
& commu-
nal        6.8            8.5           186       803     83       314   1,386
b. Boarding   7.8             7.8          235    1,030    119         -    1,384
To control costs, standardized designs have been prepared so as to ensure that
the schedules of accommodation are economical. Double bunking will be used in
all secondary institutions and only minimal communal facilities would be pro-
vided: e.g., the function of the gymnasium, auditorium and dining area would
be served by a single multipurpose hall. The cost of boarding and staff hous-
ing would be equivalent to 31% of the total project cost. This high propor-
tion is necessary because of the sparsely distributed population pattern which
precludes the operation of many day schools. Maximum use will be made of exist-
ing standardized school building designs and master lists of furniture and
equipment. The schedules of accommodation are economical and appropriate to
the planned student enrollments. Detailed furniture and equipment lists are
being finalized and would be reviewed by the Bank before procurement.
5.04      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for
the proposed project would be exempted from direct customs duties and taxes
in line with the practice of the Botswana Government to grant customs and
tax exemption to imports for educational purposes. Some of the building
materials to be used in the construction of the proposed project's institu-
tions would be acquired on the open market and would accordingly have beer
subject to customs duties and/or taxes. Of the estimated civil works costs,
about US$0.50 million equivalent would represent customs duties and/or taxes.



- 47 -
5.05      Contingencies Allowances.  For unforeseen events, 10% has been added
to the base cost of civil works and professional services and 5% to furniture
and equipment costs. Estimated price increases are based upon the following
annual rates for which the price escalation has been calculated from the base
cost date (April 1976) in accordance with the implementation schedule, shown
in Annex V-2.
Professional
Services Technical
Assistance and
Furniture and           Project
Year       Civil Works            Equipment         Administration
1976          14%                      10%               7-1/2%
1977          12%                       8%               7-1/2%
1978          12%                       8%               7-1/2%
1979          12%                       8%               7-1/2%
1980          10%                       7%               7-1/2%
5.06      The foreign exchange component of US$10.5 million equivalent has
been calculated by Bank Staff as follows: (a) civil works, 64%; (b) furniture,
75%; (c) equipment and vehicles, 90%; (d) professional services and pre-invest-
ment study, 70%; (e) technical assistance, 85%; and (f) project administration,
30%. The US$10.5 million equivalent proposed to be financed by the Bank
represents 68% of the total project cost of US$15.5 million (including con-
tingencies and taxes).
Financial Plan
5.07      The total project cost of US$15.5 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:
US$ million equivalent
Botswana          Bank
Category                                Government        Group            Total
1.   Civil works and construction          3.57           6.00              9.57
materials
2.   Furniture, vehicles and
equipment                            0.25           2.00              2.25
3.   Professional services                 0.05           0.14              0.19
4.   Project Implementation Unit           0.34           0.60              0.94
5.   Unallocated                           0.74           1.76              2.50
TOTAL                      4.95          10.50             15.45
Of which taxes:            0.50            -                0.50
5.08      The Bank Group would finance the foreign exchange component. The
maximum government capital contribution to the project is not expected to
exceed US$1.4 million equivalent in any one year through the next five years.
Recurrent costs generated by the proposed project are estimated at US$1.5



- 48 -
million equivalent p.a. at 1976 prices or about 8% of the estimated recurrent
cost of education in 1981/82. The Government attaches high priority to the
proposed project and is expected to be able to provide for these expenditures
and for its share of the capital costs.
Implementation
5.09      The project would be implemented over a period of five years plus
six months for completion of payments and withdrawals from the Loan account
(Annex V-2). The proposed Closing Date would be March 31, 1982.
5.10      Administration.  A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be estab-
lished in the MOE to administer the proposed project; the Unit would work in
close cooperation with the other Ministries involved. The Unit would include
a manager, a procurement specialist, an accountant and a clerk of works em-
ployed by the MOE, in addition to supporting staff. It would also include an
architect and a quantity surveyor to be seconded from the Ministry of Works
and Communications. Qualified staff have been selected but not yet appointed
for all positions except the clerk of works. Recruitment for this position
is underway. The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit and the
appointment of the manager, architect and procurement specialist would be
conditions of loan effectiveness. In addition to administering the pro-
posed project, the PIU would be responsible for training counterpart replace-
ments for expatriate staff members,, for liaison with the Bank, maintaining
records and introducing through the Education Evaluation Unit a system of
education evaluation. To ensure the availability of key personnel, a pro-
vision of 11.5 man-years, estimated at US$500,000 equivalent (US$40,000
equivalent per man/year), of technical assistance is included in the proposed
project to cover the cost of the project manager, the procurement specialist
and the clerk of works. The Youth Brigade trainees would construct their own
facilities and, therefore, special procedures would be required for review
and approval of designs and master list of equipment and furniture. Master
lists of furniture and equipment, standardized designs and related documenta-
tion for the construction of the centers would be prepared by the Brigades
and reviewed and approved by the PIU and the Bank.
5.11      Professional Services.  Standardized plans already exist for most
of the buildings to be constructed under the proposed project. The buildings
for the Kalahari Center would be specially designed by the project architect
since these facilities must be suitable for desert climatic conditions.
Private architectural services would only be required for the UBS construction
but would be minimal because the hostels to be constructed would be replica-
tions of already completed designs. The Ministry of Public Works' education
architect, seconded to the PIU, would design and supervise construction of the
remaining buildings. In addition to the US$40,000 equivalent required for
architectural fees, the proposed project would include US$100,000 equivalent
to cover professional fees for specialists required to develop the evaluation
and pre-investment programs (para 4.20) as well as to start preparation of a
possible second education project. Because of the urgent need for these
facilities design and construction work should be undertaken promptly and
retroactive financing is recommended for the services of consultants and



- 49 -
the initial operating expenses of the Project Implementation Unit. Retro-
active financing would cover expenditures from February 1, 1976. The amount
of expenditures before the date of the Loan Agreementsis not expected to
exceed US$150,000 equivalent, of which US$100,000 equivalent would be
eligible for reimbursement.
5.12      Site Selection.  Satisfactory sites are available for the BEC, the
National Brigade Development Center, the secondary teacher training facili-
ties at UBS and all of the junior secondary schools. The exact site of the
Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center will be determined by a water survey
now in process.
5.13      Botswana's Building Industry.  In spite of rapid growth over the
last six years (para 2.10), Botswana's building industry is small in compari-
son with adjacent countries and is comprised primarily of local subsidiaries
of foreign construction enterprises. The only local capacity is that of the
Ministry of Works and Communications (3% of total volume) and of the Youth
Brigades. There is a shortage of skilled, local artisans. Locally available
raw materials, such as stone aggregates, sand, clay, timber etc., have not
been developed. Despite these deficiencies the construction industry, though
dependent upon foreign management, has been able to meet construction demands
in recent years. In fact, for the past year, the industry has been under-
utilized to the point where bids on construction projects were lower in 1975
than they were in 1974. The construction demands of the proposed project
will not over-burden the present capacity of the industry.
Procurement
5 . i4    Ccatracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group Guidelines for procurement except as follows: (a) civil works costing
less than US$200,000 equivalent each which are small units to be constructed
in scattered locations primarily by the Youth Brigades; (b) construction of new
and the expansion of existing Youth Brigade Centers would be by the Youth
Brigades (Force Account Method); (c) furniture and equipment contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent which because of the small amounts involved and
the variety of the lots are not likely to interest foreign suppliers and can be
purchased more economically locally; and (d) locally procured construction
materials and transportation services. Contracts for items procured under
(a), (c), and (d) above would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which have been
reviewed by Bank Group staff and found acceptable.
5.15      Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of con-
struction materials, furniture and equipment have already been reviewed by
tile Bank for most of the items and would be reviewed for the items still at
the design stage. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to permit
bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents for civil works by
the Bank prior to award would be required only for contracts above US$200,000
equivalent; for furniture, equipment and construction materials, review prior
to award would not be required for contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent.
In those cases where international competitive bidding is used, domestic



- 50 -
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of
15%, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and qualified domestic civil
works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid
prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement (Annex V-3)
5.16      Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(a) 64% of expenditures for civil works and locally
procured construction materials;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
furniture, equipment and vehicles;
(c) 90% of the expenditures for locally manufactured furniture
and equipment;
(d) 80% of expenditures for locally procured furniture
and equipment;
(e) 80% of total expenditures for consultants (architectural/
engineering services), project evaluation and pre-
investment studies;
(f) 100% of foreign or 30% of local expenditures for the Project
Implementation Unit operating costs including transportation,
office expenses, supplies and insurance but excluding local
salaries; and
(g) 85% of total expenditures for technical assistance for the
Project Implementation Unit.
Disbursements would be fully documented with the exception that disburse-
ments for project administration and for civil works carried out by the Youth
Brigades Centers would be made against a certificate of expenditure documenta-
tion of which would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the
Borrower and available for review in the course of project supervision. Upon
agreement between the Government and the Bank, any funds remaining on comple-
tion of the project would be used for project related items.



B01Ts6ANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(IN ThOUSANDS OF RAFDS AND US DOLLARS)
Planned Capacity                                       Building Construction                  Total                    Equipmnt           Professional                                                   Total
at'        "reirlne    'oarcillp     Site         Acedepic &                 Staff                Site &                       &                Services 6         Technical                           in Rand.   iD US $
Aeprop .      Places       Places    Develooni-t       Cononocsi    Boarding    oiusing   Total    Buildincs    F-rniture    Vehicles        Pee-investmnt Study    Assistcnc-       Ad,iintstratinn      (000's)    (OOns)
A. Secondary Schools
1.  Ihotoco                              3.100        420                        76             2S9          -           -       289        365             30          73                                                                         46i        539
7.  Ernrl-   o,n                         2.900        420          -            101             773          -           -       973         374            20          69                                                                        471         547
3.  Letlhak.no                           6,000        470         197           159             301        172         280       753         912            81         144                                                                      1.137       1.307
4.  Centrel Region 1                     6.000        490         197           159             30T        177          280      753         912            81         144                                                                       1137       1,307
5.  Central Region 7                     6.000        470        19'            159             301        172         780       753        912            80          144                                                          I           1t137       13307
Snb-Toral                         74 000     2.100         576            654           1 465       516          840    2 821       3 475            301         574                                                                      4350        5 002
B.  U5 Te-cher Teiaing                      1 713          _          96             20             30        257           24      311         331             25          18                                                                        374        430
C.  Ro5rs    entenion  Eullec                   360         -           -             15              57         -            -       57          72              7          26                                                                        105         t21
D, tooth Briegdes
1   Bridec-G-.orone                      t 000         50         3'             76              50         37           13      103         129            10          40                                                                         179         206
-hree - e  Centors                   3 500        400        144            105             140        77          134       359        464             34         134                                                                        622         716
3   Additison  to Eoisttsg C nters       9 900        600         740            50             495        139          149      776         U26             60        20' 789                                                                              1 251
8 b-Totl                         14 400      1,050        4A6             181             701       745          796    1 238         419            '04         366                                                                      1889        2.173
E K inhar tialtipeteese                      77,00        310         2R9            260             373       371          294    1,038       1,298            110         168                                                                      1,576       1,812
Ed Mutational Cente
FP  Pr-fessio..l Service-  end                                                                                                                                                                 118                                                     118         136
Pre-inv-rtment Study
G.  Techsical Assistance                                                                                                                                                                                           440                                 440         506
H.  Ad,isiotrstion                                                                                                                                                                                                                   200               200         230     -
--Total Project Coat Excluding C.nting..ciss:   (April, 1976 prico)
In RANDS:                                                1,130         2,626     1,385        1,454    5,465       6,595            547       1,152                 118                 440              200             9,052
IN US$;                                                  1,299         3,020     1,593        1,672    6,285       7,584            629       1,325                 136                 506              230                        10,410
--Contingencis. is %
1.  Unforoseen Events                                                                 10%                                           10%         10%             5%          5%                10%                   -                -
2   Price Increase                                                                    40%                                           407.        40%            27%         27%                402                  307.             30%
--Tstsl Contingencieni
IN RANDS:                                                  610                                         2,951       3,561            183         385                  62                 132               60             4,383
IN uS$:                                                    701                                         3,394       4,095            210         443                  71                 152               69                         5,040
--Total Pro-jct Cost Including Contingencies
IN RANDS:                                                1,740                                          8,416     10,156            730       1,537                 180                 572              260            13,435
IN US$:                                                  2,000                                          9,679     11,679            839       1,768                 207                 658              299                         15,450
--Foreign Exchenge CoR.ponest:
IN RANDS,                                                1,114                                          5.386      6,500            547       1,383                 127                 486               78             9,121
IN US$:                                                  1,280                                          6,195       7,475           629       2,591                 146                 559                90                         10,490
IN %                                                        64X                                            64%         64%           75%         90%                 70%                 85%              30%
D.cehber 2, 1975



30TSWANA
VnIr.ATION PROJRCT
iMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Estimated
Effective                                                                                                                  Closing
Date                                                                                                                       Date
9/76       3/ 7                3/78                  3/79                  3/80                   3/81                      31/82
QUARTERS               1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20    21               22
A.  Secondary S.hoola
1.  Civil Works:
a.  Gaborone                       xxx  x**  0oo0o0 0   000  000  age  gas
b.  Francistown                          xxx  xxx  ***ooo  ooo 0000  000  sOS Sss
c.  Letlhakane                           xxx  xxx  ***  oo0  000  000  000  000  000  ass  SSS
d.  Central Region I                                     xxx  xxx  ***  ooo  ooo  ooo  000  000  000  sss  ass
e,  Central Region 2                                                                 xxx  xxx        000  000  000  000  000  000  sIx  ass
2.  Furniture and Equipment        xxx  xxx  x**  **o  ooo  ooo  000  000  000  000  gas
B.  UBS Teacher Ixainina
1. Civil Works:
a.  One Storey Hostel                            0  ooo  000  000  sOs  sas
b. Multi-storey Hostel                                   000  000  000  000  8ss  ass
c.  Educational Resource
Center                                          xx  xxx  x**  000  00o  008  sss  as
2.  Furniture and Equipment              xxx  ***  ooo  000  000  ooo 0    ss
C.  Botswana Extension Collegle
I.  Civil Works                       x  xxx  xxx c ***000  000  000 0oo    o  nw 
2.  Furniture and Equipment               xx  xxx  ***  000  000  0oo   *8   Sao  e4$  a
D.  Youth Brix*W
1. Civil Workts:
a.  Gaborone Center                xxx  xxx  **o  ooo  ooo  000  I.  ass,
b.  Three New Centers                                     00  000  000  00   000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000
c.  Additions to Existiug
Centers                                          00  000  000  00   000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000
2.  Furniture end Equipment                   xxx  xxx  ***  *00  ooo  00   000  000  000  000  000  000  BOB
Kalahari MultipurpoSe
Educational Center
1.  Civil Work.                         xxx  xxx   xx  xxx  xxx  xxx x Z          xxx I *         o00 ooo  000  0o00  000  000   oo       as    ass
2.  Furniture and Equipment             xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx   xx   xxx                       000  000  000  000o  as
Legend:   x  Design and Review of Tender Documents
*  Tender Period and Contract Awarding
o Construction or Delivery Period
s Maintenance or Warranty Period
Source:  Ministry of Education, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 53 -
ANNEX V-3
BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(In US$ 000's)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarters Li    Disbursements            Disbursements              Balance
1                                                              10,500
2                   -                      -                   10,500
3                  100                    100                  10,400
4                  230                    330                  10,170
5                  400                    730                   9,770
6                  740                  1,470                   9,030
7                  710                  2,180                   8,320
8                  750                  2,930                   7,570
9                1,580                  4,510                   5,990
10                  480                  4,990                    5,510
11                  870                  5,860                   4,640
12                  550                  6,410                    4,090
13                  580                  6,990                    3,510
14                  730                  7,720                    2,780
15                  520                  8,240                    2,260
16                  610                  8,850                    1,650
17                  630                  9,480                    1,020
18                  550                 10,030                      470
19                  280                 10,310                      190
20                  110                 10,420                       80
21                   70                 10,490                       10
22                   10                 10,500
/I Starting from date of Credit effectiveness.
Source: Bank staff estimates.



- 54 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project is part of the Government's educa-
tion investment program to improve and expand vocational, rural, teacher and
secondary education and nonformal adult education and training. The princi-
pal objectives of this program are to improve the knowledge and skills of the
rural population, to improve access to educational opportunities, particular-
ly in the rural areas, and to help meet the manpower needs of the expanding
modern sector (paras. 2.39, 3.21, 3.28 and 4.01). In this stage, the program
places particular emphasis on the training of youths for wage employment and
on providing education and training opportunities in the desert regions.
6.02      The benefits expected from the proposed project can be summarized
as follows to: (a) increase the enrollment in secondary schools; (b) in-
crease the supply of secondary school teachers; (c) expand and diversify the
adult education program; (d) expand the programs for training youths for
employment; and (e) strengthen ongoing education programs for the rural
population.
6.03      In statistical terms, the inclusion of the above items under the
proposed project would give the following benefits: (a) the addition of five
junior secondary schools would provide an increase of 30% over the present
secondary school enrollment; (b) increasing the student places in the secondary
school teacher training program would provide the teachers required for en-
rollment expansion and reduce the number of expatriate teachers required;
(c) expansion of the BEC adult education program would make it possible to
reach at least 9,000 additional adults p.a. with educational radio and
correspondence courses; (d) expansion of the Youth Brigades Program would
provide training for employment for 500 additional primary school leavers
p.a.; and (e) establishment of the Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center
would provide rural skill training and education for about 3,600 youths and
adults, and 320 places in junior secondary school, in a section of Botswana
with few educational facilities at the present time.
6.04      Risks Involved in the Project.  The principal risks involved relate
to the desert location of the Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center since
it would introduce several innovative elements into Botswana's educational
system. New approaches and new training programs must be developed if the
education and training programs for rural adults are to be effective. Unless
these programs are carefully monitored there is the possibility that the
emphasis will be on the secondary school at the expense of the rural skill
training program. In addition, modifications in the secondary school curric-
ulum will be required to relate the educational program more directly to the
needs of the students who will live and work in the Kalahari area (para. 4.03).
Finally, since successful operation of the Center requires the cooperation of
several different Ministries, a method must be devised to ensure the required
interministerial cooperation. The successful operation of the Center is of
special significance since it would be the model for additional, similar
centers in other rural areas in Botswana. The Government has assigned
special task forces to develop the adult education programs and the modified



- 55 -
curriculum for the secondary school and has given assurances that the
teachers at the Center would be given specialized training (para. 4.03).
Also, the Rural Extension Coordinating Committee has set up a special sub-
committee for nonformal education. In order to minimize the risks involved,
the Center's development and operations would be regularly monitored by the
Evaluation Unit of the MOE (para 4.20).
6.05      In spite of these risks, the objectives of the project and its ex-
pected benefits point to its suitability as a part of Botswana's overall
strategy to improve the productivity of the rural sector, provide amenities
for and raise the living standards of the rural population, reduce manpower
shortages, and gradually replace expatriates and improve the efficiency of
the education sector.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points with regard to the Kalahari Multipurpose Educational Center: within one
year after the date of the Loan Agreements, an acceptable organizational struc-
ture, a plan for training teachers and a curriculum will be developed for the
Center (para. 4.18).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment of the
Project Implementation Unit and the appointment of the project manager, the
architect and the procurement officer would be conditions of loan effective-
ness (para. 5.10).
7.03      Retroactive financing is recommended for:  (a) the services of
consultant architects; and (b) Project Implementation Unit expenditures
(para. 5.11).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan
of US$7.0 million equivalent and a "Third Window" Loan of US$3.5 million
equivalent to the Republic of Botswana.



- 56 -
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Educational Worksheets
B. Working Papers
C. List of Specifications, Bills of Quantities and Drawings Received
D. Preparation Report
E. Bibliography:
1. National Development Plan (1973-78)
2. Projects for External Financing (Unesco - 1969)
3. Botswana Training Center Report (1973)
4. Vocational Training Scheme Report (ILO - 1974)
5. National Center for Vocational Training Report (1974)
6. Progress Report on the BEC (1975)
7. Report on the Brigades in Botswana (1973)
8. Accounting System - Youth Brigades (1975)
9. Manpower Survey Report (1973)
10. Report on the In-Service Primary Teacher Training Program (1975)
11. Botswana Post-Secondary Students Abroad (1974)
12. Study Guide: The People and the Plan (DEMS - 1974)
13. Village Development Committee Report (DEMS - 1974)
14. Professional Training in Adult Education (DEMS - 1975)
15. Recurrent Budget, 1975/76, District Councils
16. Financial Statements, Tables and Estimates of Recurrent Revenue,
1975/76
17. Recurrent Budget, 1975/76, Town Councils
18. Estimates of Recurrent Expenditure, 1975/76
19. National Policy on Tribal Grazing Land (Government Paper No. 2 of
1975)
20. Statistical Abstract, 1974
21. Education Statistics, 1974
22. Social and Economic Survey in Three Peri-Urban Areas in
Botswana, 1974
23. Statistical Newsletter, 1974 and 1975
24. Guide to the Village of Botswana, 1973
25. Education Statistics: Part I, 1975 Schools, Pupils & Teachers,
Part II, 1974 Examinations, Expenditure & Miscellaneous
26. Employment Survey, 1973 and 1974
27. Report of the Salaries Review Commission, 1974
28. Regulations for Industrial Employees, 1975
29.  Careers Guide for Secondary Schools
30. Household Expenditure Survey, 1968-70
31. Unified Teaching Service Act, 1975
32. Project Planning Procedure, 1973
33. Study of the Building Industry, 1973, 2 volumes
34. Brigades Establishment Register 1976/1977, January 1976
January 1976



- 57 -
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Indicators for Supervision
Physical Indicators
Rand Expended to Date             % of Plan at
(related to items on
expenditure schedule)               Appraisal
Design
Construction
Furniture
Equipment
Educational Indicators
Accomplishments by                 Planned Accomplish-
Date of Supervision                ment at Appraisal/
Mission                          Negotiations
Number of Teachers in
Training
Number of Student Places
Added
Additional Hours of
Radio Time
Staffing for Kalahari
Educational Center
Staffing for BEC
Number of Additional
Trainees in Youth
Brigade Program






ON ~~~~~~)42 ff  ~~~~~~~~~~:;77r  -Er~~~r                                                                                        r              1
ANGQVy~~~~                       7>                     ~~~   UAWM B ~zI A                                     REPU i,-QQ F OTSWANA'
~~r   * ~~>t---  <7~~~~   " tzEDUCATION PROEC
/ N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
                             ~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~c H    OE0  AESET   MREE 7RP
K      MONAL B"EADE E-1EDEM[NT CENTER   ...          ANA CNAWR
NA                              RO~~~~~~~~~~~ADO -IRI tNREE    TM E
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~X                                                              NMIJRAALPEJECTS-
E3~~~~~~EE
NCAMILAND                                                        %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJAEEER                        ELETR
.7/  HA  E ft                   0E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   7.                         Ot~~~~~~~~3eo', D



