Document of
The World Bank
For Official Use Only
Report No. 19513
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
June 29, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may
not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Riyal (YR)
EXCHANGE RATES
Fiscal Year                        Official Rate             Market Rate
May 1988                      US$1 = Yemeni Dinar 0.3450'       N.A.
May 1991                      US$1 = YR 12                US$1 = YR 29
Nov 1998                      US$1 = YR 141               US$1 = YR 141
Before unification of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) in May
1990, the Yemeni Dinar was legal currency in PDRY.
ACRONYMS
CBY            -      Central Bank of Yemen
CPPR           -      Country Portfolio Performance Review
ERR            -      Economic Rate of Return
GOY            -      Government of Yemen
ICR            -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA            -      International Development Association
NWSA           -      National Water and Sanitation Authority
MEW            -      Ministry of Electricity and Water
MOF            -      Ministry of Finance
PDRY           -      People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PEC            -      Public Electricity Corporation
PIU            -      Project ][mplementation Unit
PWC            -      Public Water Corporation (in former PDRY)
SWSSP          -      Sana'a 'Water Supply and Sanitation Project
TS             -      Technical Secretariat
YAR            -      Yemen Arab Republic
(refers to North Yemen prior to unification)
YDR            -      Yemen Democratic Republic
(refers to South Yemen prior to unification)
YEM            -      Yemen ('refers to Republic of Yemen after unification)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:             Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:           Inder Sud
Sector Director:            Jean-Claude Villiard
Sector Leader               Jamal Saghir
Teamn Leader:               Somin MukheriJ



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944 YEM)
PREFACE                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                               i-v
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction ... .                         ...................I
B.   Project Objectives and Design     .....................3
C.   Achievement of Objectives .....................4
D. Project lImplementation ...                                ....................6
E. Project Sustainability ...                                 ....................7
F. Future Operations ...                                     ....................7
G. IDA Performance ...                                       ....................8
H. Borrower Performance ...                                   ....................8
1.  Assessment of Outcome ...                                  ....................9
J.  Key Lessons Learned ...                                   ....................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I: Summary of Assessment .12
Table 2: Related IDA Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4A: CuLIMulative Credit Disbursements .14
Table 4B: Allocationi of Credit Proceeds .14
I'able SA: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
I'able SB: Kev Indicators for Impleenitrtion I)ate .16
Table 6   Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Techlinical Studies .18
Table 8A: Project Costs .18
Table 8B: Project Financiig. .18
Table 9: Economliic Aslysis .19
Table 10: Status of Credit Covenants .21
Table I 1: Complianice with Operational, Manual.l .22
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................... 22
Table 13: IDA Resources. Missions .23
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memoranidiuiml of thInderstanding .......................................... 24
B. Project Review from 13orrower's Perspective .25
C. Comments from Governimlenit . .,,. 26
D. Map Section:  Map IBRI) 19947R .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
1.     This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Al Mukalla Water Supply Project in
the Republic of Yemen, for whichi Credit 1944-YEM  in the amount of SDR8.70 million or US$12.00
million equivalent was approved on July 19, 1988 and declared effective on June 9, 1989.
2.     The Credit was closed on December 31. 1998, atter it was extended twice from  its original
closing date of December 31, 1995. As of April 28, 1999, a total of SDR 8.4 million has beeii disbursed.
The remaining SDR 0.3 million are fully comimiltted and will be disbursed by the end of April 1999.
3.     The ICR was prepared by Mr. Ur;L Kirmanii. Seilior Imiplemilenitationl Specialist: Mrs. Josephine
Masanque, Financial Analyst (MNSID): and Mr. Srinivasa Rangacilar, Economiiist (Consultanit). The ICR
was reviewed by Mr. Jean-Claude Villiard. Sector D)irector, Mr. Amir Al-Khafaji. Lead Operations
Specialist (MNSID); Mr. Jamal Saghir. Sector L.eader: Mr. Somini11 Mukierji. Operations Officer
(MNCYE); and Ms. Tuf'an Kolan. Portfolio Manager (MNCMS). The missionl is grateftil to the officials
of NWSA headquarters and Al Mukalla Branchi Oftfice lfoI their assistance.
4.     Preparation of this ICR began durinig IDA's ftinal supervisioni/comilpletionl missionl in December
1998. The report is based on material in the project file, discussionis with the Borrower, and inforimiation
collected in the field. The comimienlts provided by the Govermilenit on the ICR are containied in Aninex C.
Also attached is an ICR prepared by the Borroxver (Anilex B).



!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I.     Al Mukalla. a major port city on the Gulf of Aden and the capital of Hadramaut Province, was
facing serious water supply shortages in the early 1980s due to over exploitation. This resulted in a very
low per capita consuLimption of water compared with other developing counitries. As the populationi of the
city was growing at a rapid pace, there was an urgent need to obtain additional wNater supplies from a
newly discovered aquifer, and to strengtheni the existing distribution system.
2.     The Governmenlt of the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemeni and the Interilatiolial
Development Association (IDA) initiated the Al Mukalla Water Supply Project in 1988, to alleviate the
increasinlg water shortages which caused contilluinlg adverse effects on the healtil and livelihoods of the
commi111unlity. However, the project did not progress as planined due to various external reasons, includinig
the ullificationl of the formier People's Democratic of Yemenl (PDRY) in the Southi and the Yemeni Arab
Republic (YAR) in the North, whicil took place in 1990, and the Gulf War. Thle situation was further
exacerbated by the withdrawal of the Kuwait Fulid following the Gulf War.
3.  Prior to unificationi, implemilenitation delays occuried due to delays inCredit effectiveeness i.e., in the
appointeilieit of consultants involving other cotinaniciers. wvhichl was a conditioni of Credit effectiveness.
However, after effectiveness, the Public Water C'orporationi (IPWC) started making progress in
implemiienitation. Prior to unificationi, PWC' was in compliancewith the finanicial covenanlts. lImmediately
after the ullificationi, it suffered badly due to sharp increase in wvages and salaries (over 100 percent),
wilich were made to be at par with tihe civil service pay in Northi Yemlein. and also due to the devaluation
of the Yemeiii Dinar by 34 percent.
4.     Thle PWC and the National Water and Sewerage Authorit\ ofthe former YAR were merged on
October 16. 1991, as the National Water and Sanitation Autiholity (NWSA). wvith its headquarters in
Sana'a. The responsibility for project implementation\ was trallnsfrtced to Sana'a. In the intervening
period 1991-1995, NWSA suffered from lack of leadeislip and policy direction and iniherenit institutional
weaknesses. The Civil War in 1994 contributed lIirthli  to tlhc detcrioration of NWSA's performance.
During this period project implemilentatioll sulffred badly.  It was exacerbated as the Arab Fund
suspended its disbursemiielit for the project.
5.     In June 1995, IDA and GOY reviewed the cntire portlolio and agreed on steps to improve project
implemilenitationl. The Project lImpiilieeitationi IhJnit (I1' J) based in Al Mukalla was strengtilenied and the
Project Director was given increased authority in procurem11enit and dishursemient. A Special Account was
transferred from Central Bank of Yemeni (C13Y). Saia'a with C13Y, Al Mukalla Branchi to facilitate small
expenditures related to project implementation.  'I'hese steps, along with the strengthening of



Implementation Completion Report                                                              ii
implementation support at the Resident Mission, contributed towards improving project implementation
from 1995 onwards and led to the successful completion of the project in August 1998.
Institutional Reforms
6.     In order to improve the performance of the water sector, the Government agreed with IDA and
other donors (German and Dutch) on the need to undertake institutional reforms in line with the
macroeconornic reform program agreed with IDA under the Economliic Recovery Credit (Cr. 2840-YEM).
Under Gernan financing, a Technical Secretariat (TS) for the follow-up of the reform  agenda was
established. In addition, NWSA agreed to make Rada Branch as a 'pilot' for implemenitinlg the reform
program. Rada Branch was made fully autonomi1ou0s, with tile authority to set its owIi tariffs and to
manage its cost recovery and investment program. This model has been successfil. NWSA has decided
to give full autonomy to an additional five branchies of N'WSA Llider a phased reform  program. Al
Mukalla Branch is not included in the first phase: however, some institutiotnal improvemiients (see para. 16
of tile maini text) have been made.
Project Objectives and Design
7.     The maill objectives of the project were to: (a) increase * ater productioll tfor Al Mulkalla to a
level required to meet expected demand up to year 2002' (b) strengthienl and expand primary and
secondary water distribution systems: and (c) enilanice the operational and maniagemiienit capacity of' the
NWSA Al Mukalla Branch.
8.     Durinig appraisal, the total project costs were estimated at US$34.7 millioni, of whichi IDA would
finanice US$12.0 millioni. Cofinanicinlg in an amoulilt of US$9.7 millioni each was to be provided by the
Arab Funld and the Kuwait Fund. Using incremental sale of water at the existing tariffs as a minimluum
measure of benefits, the economic rate of retUrn was esthimated to be 6.5 percent over a 50-year period.
The project was a least-cost solutioll for mieetinig Al MuLikalla's water supply needs, and represented the
first stage of a long-terimi program to exploit available water resources. HIowever,after the Gulf Crisis the
Kuwait Fund withdrew its cofinanicinig comilitmiienit. 'I'he proJect scope had to be scaled down to the
equivalenit of US$25.0 millioni, yet the primary objectivc of increasing water supplies remained.
Rehabilitationl and expansionl of the water distributioni systeimi was seveiely reduced. The total costs of the
redesigned project were about US$24.1 millioni eqtiuivalent.  'I'hcse were finaniced by IDA (US$12.2
millioni), the Arab Funid (US$7.6 Illiillioi), and thc (iovernmeilnilt (U IS$4.4 m ill ioni). ILater, in 1996, German
donior (KfW) provided about US$4.3 million equivalcilt to) reilabilitatc about 20 percent of the existing
network. Work is expected to commenilice in 1 999 and is exlpected to be comiipleted by the year 20002.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.     In spite of the prolonged delays, the mainil obiective of mectinig liuttire water demanld for the Al
MuLikalla citizens has been successfully IllCt. lI'ojeCt imlpleeCnCltation could be reviewed in three phases.
Durinig Phase 1(1988-1990) - prior to unification. I'W(' took a goodi start in implemilenitinig the project and
complied with all fiianicial covenanits of the l)evelopnient Credit Agreeimlenit (DCA), signed by the
Governmenit of PDRY. Durinig Pliase II (1990-1995) - pro.iect iipliemiieintationl suffered due to various
reasons, i.e.: (i) unlificationi of the coulitry and (Gull War crisis il 1990: (ii) lack of institutional direction
after the merger of PWC and NWSA in 1991: (iii) withdrawal of'the Kuwait Flund; (iv) Civil War in 1994
and consequenit delay by GOY in providing counterpart linids, whichi in turil delayed the mobilization of
the main contractor, and suspensioni of disbursemeniit from Arab Fund. Af'ter withdrawal of Kuwait Fund,
the project scope was modified in 1991. The procurcilcimt and implemilenitationl remained unsatisfactory.
However, due to civil disturbances and increased fluctuiationi inl US$/Yemeni Riyal parity (the official



Implementation Completion Report                                                                iii
exchange rate was US$1 = YR12, whereas market rate was US$1 = YR160), implementation was
hampered. During Phase III (1995-1998) - the project implementation improved and led to successful
commissioning of the project in August 1998. In 1995. GOY and IDA took concrete steps to bring this
project on track to achieve its primary objective of enhancing water supplies inAl Mukalla. As stated in
(para. 8). the project scope was modified and strong implementation arrangements were made. With the
close cooperation of the IDA Resident Mission, notwitlhstaniding the bureaucratic delays caused by GOY
in providing counterpart funds and the Project Team, the Project was satisfactorily completed and water
supply of 190 litre/sec was comimlissionied in AuLgust 1998. Thle citizens of Al Mukalla have begun to
receive chlorinated water for their use. On the institutionial side, some improvemenits have been made.
Notwithstanding the improvemenlts miade in computerization of accounlts and billing, the financial
management of Al Mukalla Branchi is not entirely satist.actory. In spite ot' repeated reminiders by IDA, the
GOY has not increased water tariffs adequately to enisuire the financial viability of the Al Mukalla Branch.
During project implementationi, auditing of' the accounts has heeni improved withi the participation of
independent auditors. The institutionlal ref'ormiis f'or Al Mukalla Branch are expected to be made by
NWSA, in the near future, as part of their programi to give l'ull auitonomllly to its branciles.
Economic Rate of Return
10.    In the appraisal report, the economlic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 6.5 percent.
11.    For the ICR, and given the impossibility of'duplicatling the SAR calculationls due to a lack of data.
the economic analysis was done using a new wvith and without project methodology.  The  iaill
assumptions for the ICR analysis are: (i) an increase in raw water of about 6 million rn3/year as a result ot'
the project's civil works; (ii) the tariff is the same as that approved in December 1998, and theni projected
for later years according to IDA's agreemenit with the Governm11enlt under the recently negotiated Sana'a
Water Supply & Sanitationi Project (Cr. 3209-YEM); (iii) the nulilber of coninectionis remaini constanit (it is
important to note that the project finanlced only the developmenit of major water supply sources and
conveyance-not additional connections): (iv) revenues increase due to the augmenitationl in raw water
supplies, (v) investimienit costs are actual amouLnts, as showil in Table 8A: (vi) noni-electricity operating
costs are those slhowin for 1996 and 1997 in Annaex 6, and theni hield constanit for later years: (vii)
electricity costs are 10 percent less in the with project scenario in order to simulate the energy savings
meiltionled in the SAR; (viii) billing efficiency increases by 15 percent per year as a result of the pro ject's
implementation of billing computers and related technilcal assistance; and (ix) the discouLit rate used in the
NPV calculation is 10 percent.
1 2.    B3ased on this analysis. the re-calculated Base Case ERR is an estimated 12 percent. or about
doubie that estimated in the SAR. The revised NPV is about YR 890 million (US$6 millioni).
P'erformance of the Consultants
13.   'I'he consultanits for the project supervision performed well. They contributed to the redesigil of
the project after withdrawal of the Kuwait Fund. They also prepared a good study for the operations and
maintenance of' the project and trained the local staff in various skills needed to satisfactorily operate the
I No explanation was given in the SAR for the project being approved with such a low ERR. In this context, the
ICR team interviewed the only former Bank staff familiar with the project's preparation that it could find, but this
person was not aware of the rationale for approving a project with such a low ERR. One possible explanation is that
the health and environmental benefits, if they could have been calculated, would have raised the ERR above 10
percent.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                iv
water supply system. The computerization of the billing system and training of the staff by the
consultants was useful in making some improvements in the financial management at Al Mukalla Branch.
14.    All contractors performed diligentli in spite of the frustrations caused by delays in payment by
NWSA.
Environmental Impact
15.    The Project has provided additional cleani water for the people of Al Mukalla and has contributed
to the improved health and general living coniditionis of the population. Furthier, the enviroiinmental
benefits in October district would be significant. as thel district's effluCilt create pools of stagnanit water
and other waste whicih cause ulinlealthiy odors. 13 providing more water in this district, the project will
improve the flow of effluents and reduce the r isk ot' disease.
Project Sustainability
16.    The short-term sustainability is likely to be achieved. [Ilic pro jcct has sLicceeded in achievinig its
objective of iicreased water supplies, meetinig the dcmaniid up to year 2002 as esthimated in SAR. NWSA
staff at Al Mukalla has been well trained to manage the water supply system  by getting on-the-job
training and specialized training abroad. For finanicial management, the training provided in compuiter
skills and accounting is adequate at this stage. However. for long-terill efficient maniagemiienit. the staff
needs to be trained in moderil integrated finanicial maniagemilenlt systems.
17.    In order to ensure project sustainiability. in the long-terim, the following actions need to be taken:
(a)    The maniagemiienit of Al Mukalla Branchi needs to be made more autonom11ous, with
authority to generate fuLids througIl tarift'ad justment adequate to meet their operatinig and
nlvestmiienit requiremiienits.
(b)    Its finianicial accounting and maniagelmlelnt information systems needs to be updated and
set up in accordance with the interinational accounting standards applicable to utility
corporations. This would include a cost accountilig module to allow forautomiatic taliff
ad'justments.
(c)    Further improvements are needed to rehabilitate the water distributioll network, provision
of adequate meters and developmenlt of mechianismii for the realization of the vater bills
fromil all categories of consumli-ers.
(d)    Improve service levels and standards.
(e)    Review the long-term sustainability of the groundwater resources.
Future Operations
I      'I'lhe experience gainied during this project highlights the need for expeditiously impleimieintinig the
policy reforms in the water sectors, includinig legal and regulatory reforms. All NWSA branchies need to
be givCIl f'ull autoniomily to maliage their affairs on a self-financing basis, with the autIlority to setthieir
own tariffs. The Govermilenit has to provide a legal framework for the participation of the private sector
in water and wastewater management based on sound commercial practice.
19.    NWSA  needs to improve the performance of the Al Mukalla Branch by implementinig the
institUtional and finanicial sector reforms, in order to mobilize further investments needed to rehabilitate
and expand the water distribution network and improve the sewerage system at Al Mukalla.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                  v
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
20.     The redesigned project achieved its major objectives of increasing the capacity for potable water
production, and of strengthening the institutional capabilitv of the Borrower. The economic rate of return
is now estimated to be 12 percent.  To ensure the long-terim  sustainability of project benefits, the
Borrower is committed to grant the Al Mukalla branch of NWSA full operational and financial autonomy;
to furthier improve cost recovery: and to prepare a follow-on project focusing on the relhabilitation and
expansioni of water distribution and sewerage networks.
21.      The following lessons can be drawn from the experienlce of this project:
(a)   Close supel-visioni and flexible response to changing conditionls can rescue a project that is
facing serious implemlienitationi problems.
(b)   For complex projects, expertise and the capability of the experienced contractors is critical
to successful implemiienitationi of these projects.
(c)   Delays in providing local currenicy funids can cause serious interruptionls in project
implementation.
(d)  Institutional strengtihenilig. includilig finanicial, accoulitinig and managemenlt systems ulider
sector reforms of the Borrower, increases efficient project implementation and the long-
term sustainability of project benefits.
(e)   Agreeing with the borrower on implementilig up-front financial sector reforms, i.e.,
institutionial and finanlcial reforms, comimlercializationi and corporatization, would result in
sustainiable projects.
(f)   Defininig and clarifying with the Borrower project objectives, and identifying developmenit
impact indicators and project perforimanice monitorinig indicators would improve project
iiiplemenitationi and maniagemilenit.
(g )  During imiplemiienitationi, the project encountered various problems, yet it maniaged to
achlieve its maajor objectives with close cooperation  of IDA, co-finaniciers and the
Govermilenlt. sNhich is vital for the successful outcome of such projects.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    Al Mukalla, Yemeni's largest Port City on the Gulf of Aden, was facing serious w ater supply
shortages in the early 1 980s. Existing water sources were being used excessively, and water tables at the
borefields were falling. In addition. Xwater quality did not meet milnilumlil safety standards as definhed by
the World Health Organization, creating serious healthl hazards for the people. As the population of the
city was growing at a rapid pace, there was an urgent need to obtain additional water supplies from a
newly discovered aquifer at An Naga'ah, some 50 kilometers away, and to strengthenl the existing
distribution system.
2.    IDA has played an active role in the sector since 1978, wheni a Water Supply Enginieering Credit
(S-21-YDR) finaticed feasibility studies for Aden, Al Mukalla and Laboos. This was followed by four
water supply projects: two in Aden, one in Al Mukalla and one in Seiyun (see Part 11, Table 2). Thle total
cost of these projects was about US$90.0 million, toward whiclh IDA provided US$29.0 millioni and five
other donors contributed cofinanicing of about US$50.0 millionl. All projects were successfully completed
and their stated objectives were largely achieved.
3.      In 1988, the Govermiienlt of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) requested
IDA's assistance in alleviating water shortages at Al Mukalla. IDA prepared the Al Mukalla Water
Suppiv Project, hlereafter referred to as the "Project". It was approved by IDA Board on July 19, 1998
and became effective on June 9. 1989.
4.       The Project did not progress as planined. The ilmplemenitationi history of this project can be
divided into three phases. Phase I comprised the period 1988-1990, prior to unification.  Phase 11
comprised the period 1990-1995, and includes the events relating to the unificationi of Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) and PDRY in 1990, the Gulf crisis, the institutionial chaniges and the events leading to
Civil War in 1994 and its aftermath. Phase III (1995-1998) comprised the period where IDA and GOY
jointly strived to revive the progress and complete this project successfully achieving its primary
objective of providing adequate water supply to the citizens of Al Mukalla.
5.    In Phase 1, Public works Corporation (PWC) implemented the project satisfactorily.  It was
financially strong, and a well-organized financial and accounting system in place. It complied with all the
covenants, and implementation was considered satisfactory.



Implementation Completion Report                                                               2
6.     In Phase 11, all such events, i.e., unification of the country, Gulf crisis, merger of PWC with its
NWSA resulted in rapid deterioration in the project implementation. Immediately after unification, PWC
suffered financially, when the Government adjusted the salaries of the newly merged corporation (more
than 200 percent increase in salaries and wages of former PWC staff to bring it ini line with the civil
servants in former YAR). The water tariffs were also adjusted for uniformity of the consumiier charges in
North and South Yemen. Secondly, the integrated NWSA, whichi was created on October 16, 1991,
suffered badly from the lack of leadership and policy direction. The finanicial conditioni of the newly
formed NWSA also continued to deteriorate.
7.     The Gulf crisis, and consequenit withdrawal of Kuwait FuLid from  co-financing this project,
exacerbated the implementationl problems. The project was restructured after the withdrawal of Kuwait
Fund (US$19.5 million) in 1991. The finanicial condition of NWSA contillued to deteriorate, and Civil
War in 1994 furthier aggravated the situation. In 1994, the NWSA's records in the South were burnit, the
computers were stolen. As a consequenice, tile finanicial statements and audit reports for NWSA were
further delayed.  In sumIl, during Phase 11, the project implemilenltationi was uLisatisfactory to highily
unsatisfactory in 1994-1995 (Table 13). At that time. IDA was seriously considerinig to cancel this
project. However, in view of the country's deteriorating economilc situation, IDA contilLued to support
this project in view of the critical need of water supply to the citizens of Al Mukalla.
8.     In Phase III (1995 period), the project implemenitationi took a positive direction leading to
successful completion. In June 1995, GOY andi IDA reviewed the entire portfolio and took concrete steps
to address the issues caused by the inflation, fluctuations in the $/Yemeni Rial (YR) exchanige rate,
availability of counterpart funds; and strengthening of thle Project Implemiienitationl Unit (PIU) by
delegating its greater authority from the centralized NWSA bureaucracy. In addition, IDA  strengthenied
its implementation team at the Resident Missionl in July 1995. For thils project, IDA agreed to extend the
closing date from December 31, 1996 to December 31. 1998 to enable NWSA to complete this project.
Thereafter, witil close cooperation between the Resident Mission and NWSA, the implemenltation
improved siginificanitly resulting in successful commissioning of the project in August 1998. However, in
spite of several tariff adjustmelIts made by GOY, NWSA's finanicial condition contillued to deteriorate,
and it could not comply with the finanicial covenants of the credit.
Institutional Reforms
9.     In 1993-1994, the Govermilenit agreed with IDA and other donors (German and Dutch) to
undertake water sector reformis as part of a macroeconiomiiic reform program agreed under the Economic
Recovery Credit (Cr. 2840-YEM). With Germani finanicinig, a Technical Secretariat was formed to follow
up on the reform  agenda.  Separately, the Dutchi Goveriinmenit financed a pilot program  for a fully
autonomilous Rada Branch, whici was successfully implemented.  NWSA has initiated the reform
program by selecting five branchies, whichi will be given autonomily based on the Rada experience. Under
IDA's recently negotiated Sana'a Water and Sanitation Project, the autonomy would alto be granted to
Sana'a Branch. NWSA intends to provide autonomy to Al Mukalla Branchi on similar lines to ensure its
financial viability.



Implementation Completion Report                                                             3
B. Project Objectives and Design
10.    The project was prepared by the PWC with technical assistance provided under the preceding
rehabilitation project (Cr. 1159-YDR).  The main objectives of the project were to increase water
production for Al Mukalla to a level required to meet expected demalid to the year 2002. and to
strengthen and expand primary and secondary distribution systems. Other objectives were to enhlanlce the
operational and management capacity of NWSA, reduce uniaccounlted water, increase productivity, and
strengthen system management.
I.    To achieve these objectives, the project included the following compolnelnts:
(a) development of a new borefield at An Naga'ah:
(b) constructionl of a transimiissioni pipeline of about 50 kiml from the borefield to Al Mukalla;
(c) re-equipping and upgrading of the Wadi Buwaysh borefield:
(d) improvemenlt and strengtheninig of primary and secondary water distribution networks and
reservoirs;
(e) supply of water meters, tools, operational and office equipmenlt; and
(f)  techilical assistance to improve water supply system  analysis and operation, finanicial
perforianice. and the developmenit of a computerized accountinig system.
12.    The total project costs were estimated at US$34.7 million, of whicil IDA would finance US$12.0
million (Tables 8A and 8B). Cofinanicinig in an amount of US$9.7 million each would be provided by the
Arab Fulid for Economic and Social Developmenit, and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Developmenit. Durinig appraisal, the economilc rate of return - not including environmental and health
benefits - was estimated to be 6.5 percent, based on incremilenital water sales at tariffs in effect during that
time plis the estilmated reduction in pumpinig costs for a 50- year period as a proxy for benefits. The
Costs incIlided the project expeniditures, replacement costs for mechanical and electrical equipment, etc.
The project was a least-cost solutioll for meeting Al Mukalla's water supply needs, and represented a first
stage of a long-term program  to exploit available water resources.  In July 1988, when the Board
approved the project, finial designs and tender documelits had been prepared for the major project
componienits.
13.    Chaniges in Project Design.  After the Gulf Crisis in 1990, the Kuwait Fund withdrew its
cofinancing commitmenit (about US$19.5 millioni), and the project had to be scaled down to US$25.0
million equivalent and, yet, achieve the original objective of providing the targeted water supplies forAl
Mukalla. Asbestos cement pipes replaced ductile iron pipes the component relating to the improvement
and extension of the primary and secondary water distribution system was excluded. Later, in 1996, the
German donor (KfW) prepared a separate project "Program for Reduction of Water Losses" in selected
NWSA towns - Taiz, Al Mukalla, and Sana'a. The project focussed on upgrading the existing
distribution network through reduction in leakage, and replacement of defective pipework. For Al
Mukalla, KfW has allocated about US$4.3 million. The implementation of this project is expected to
commence in mid-1999 with scheduled completion by the year 2002. It is expected to rehabilitate about
20 percent of the network. KfW estimate that on completion of their project, current rate of water leakage
would be reduced by about ten percent. Once this project is completed, it will partially achieve the
objective (d) in para. 11 above.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                 4
14.    As mentioned earlier, the Government found it difficult to adjust tariffs countrywide, and
requested IDA to revise the financial covenant requiring NWSA to produce sufficient revenues to cover
its costs, including its yearly investments. At that time. the Government also embarked on a pilot project
(financed by the Dutch) under its sector reform program. where a branch of NWSA (Rada) was allowed
to set its tariffs independently. Inspired by the success of the brancil, in September 1997, the Governmeit
requested IDA to restrict the financial covenanits to the NWSA Al Mukalla branchi instead of the whole
NWSA. As a result, the financial covenanits of the DCA were revised in September 1997, to state that the
Al Mukalla Branch produce for each of fiscal year total revenues equivalent to not less thanl the sumi1 of
operating expenses, depreciation, and increases in its net working capital other thani cash.
C. Achievement of Objectives
15.    In spite of the prolonged delays, the maini objectives of meeting future water demand In Al
Mukalla were met wheni the physical components of the restructured project were completed late August
1998, and handed over to NWSA's Al Mukalla branch for operations. The new pipeline has a gravity
transport capacity of about 190 liters per second, whiclh was the target for the original project desigi.
Installing a pumping station could increase the capacity to 320 liters per second. The enh1aniced water
supply is expected to meet effective demanid in the city and surroutidinig areas to the year2012. However,
some areas have only intermittenit or no water supplies, as distribution networks have not kept pace with
rapid urban growth. Over the past decade, Al-Mukalla's population las almost doubled, reachinlg 145,000
people in 1998. Expandinig and strengthienin'ig the distribution network together with urgently needed
imiprovemilenits in the sewerage system will have highi priority for a follow-on projectto fully utilize the
water suipplies made available and to ensure sustainability of this project.
16.    To strengthen the institutionial capacity of NWSA, broad sector reforms were initiated in 1995
aiminig at greater decentralizationi and delegationi of authority to functionially responsible staff. As
menitionied earlier, one of the first successful initiatives under the sector reforms was a Dutch-funded pilot
project in the Rada Branchi (para. 14). The branch was made fully autonomous, financially indepenident
of NWSA (mainitainilng its oWIn accounlts usinig a computerized accounting system), and authorized by the
Governmiienit to set its owIn tariffs for full cost recovery.
1 7.    To furtlher the reform agenida, NWSA has selected five branches for decentralization (para. 9).
While Al Mukalla is not incIlided in this groupat this time, specific actions have been taken to strengthen
the maniagemiienit capabilities of the branclh. Under the project, the following actions were taken to
improve its finanicial maniagemilenlt: (a) a computerized payroll and billing system  was completed in
October 1998 (although not yet fully and efficiently utilized); (b) a computerized accounting module is
being installed and will be operational in accordance with the branch's decentralization program; and (c)
eight staff of the branch have been trained in computerized financial management, and training of another
15 staff is ongoing. Supporting computer hardware (though not sufficient) and software have been
procured and installed. Further operational t:raining by consultants and contractors has enabled staff of
the Al Mukalla branch to take over the project operations smoothly, and training is still ongoing to
strengthen the skills for efficient use of the system. Thus, the institution building objectives for NWSA
have also been partially met in the situation, which was not foreseen at appraisal.
18.    Water Tariffs. Water tariffs were increased countrywide in 1996, in mid-1998, and again in
December 1998. In spite of these increases, the Al Mukalla branch was not able to meet its full cost



Implementation Completion Report                                                                  5
recovery covenant. The required weighted average tariff to meet the finanlcial covenant in 1999 was
estimated at YR 42.54, which is YR 16.48 more than the weighted average tariff estimated in 1998. For
the year 1999. the brancih is expected to meet its costs of operation following additional sales of water
from the new borefield, and by gradually improving consumer maniagemilenit. collection, tariff, billiig.
metering, and electricity arrears and water losses.
19.    Project Costs and Financinig. Thle final costs of tihe redesigned project were expected to reach the
US$24.1 million equivalent (Table 8A).  The foreign exchange component (US$19.6 millioni) was
finaniced by IDA  and the Arab Funid, while the Goverinimlenit f'ulided  local costs (Table 8B).
Disbursements from thle IDA Credit reached US$12.0 million as of April 28. 1999. Anothier US$0.4
millioni are commilitted to improve operations of the Al lulikalla branch and to purchase additional pipes
and fittings. They will be disbursed by the end of May 1999.
20.    The Economilc Rate of Return. In the appraisal report, the economilic rate of returil (ERR) was
estimated to be 6.5 percent.J  The analysis was brieflv described in the SAR: benefits were to accrue
solelv from a reduction In LpumIlpinig costs, over a 50-year period; and costs included expenditures under
the project, periodic equipmenlt replacemenits and incremiienital operating costs. However, no supportinIg
worklsheets or background material were available in the project file to documlienit the amounts.
21.   IFor tile ICR, and given the impossibility of duplicatilg the SAR calculations due to a lack of data,
the economic analysis was done using a new  with and withiout project methodology.  The maini
assumptionis for the ICR analysis are: (i) an increase in raw water of about 6 million m3/year as a result of
the project's civil wvorks; (ii) the tariff is the same as that approved in December 1998, and then projected
for later years according to IDA's agreement with the Govermiienit under the recently negotiated Sana'a
Water Supply & Sanitationi Project (Cr. 3209-YEM), (iii) thie numilber of connectionis remain constanit (it is
important to note that the project finaniced only the development of major water supply sources and
conveyrance-not additional connections): (iv) revenues increase due to tihe augmentationi in raw water
supplies; (v) investment costs are actual amounts, as shownI in Table 8A; (vi) noni-electricity operating
costs are those shown for 1996 and 1997 in Annex 6, and then held constanit for later years; (vii)
electri citN costs are 10 percent less in the with project scenario in order to simulate the energy savings
mentioned in the SAR: (viii) billing efficiency increases by 15 percent per year as a result of the project's
implemilenitationi of billing computers and related technilcal assistance; and (ix) the discount rate used in the
NPV calculationi is 10 percent.
22.    Based on this analysis, the re-calculated Base Case ERR is an estimated 12 percent, or about
double tihat estimated in tile SAR. Thle revised NPV is about YR 890 million (US$6 million). The ERR
would have been even highier if tile leak detection and reduction componenlt of the project hiad been
implemilenited. For example, even a modest 10 percent reduction in the unaccounted for water percentage
(from the Base Case 54 percent to a still higih 44 percent) would hlave increased the ERR to about 14
percent. As In thle SAR, hiealthi and environimien.tal benefits were not calculated. For the ICR, the effects
of a FOREX premium  were examined to convert financial to economic flows, but this calculation had a
negligible effect on the ERR.
2 No explanation was given in the SAR for the project being approved with such a low ERR. In this context, the
ICR team interviewed the only former Bank staff familiar with the project's preparation that it could find, but this
person was not aware of the rationale for approving a project with such a low ERR. One possible explanation is that
the health and environmental benefits, if they could have been calculated, would have raised the ERR above 10
percent.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                  6
D. Project Implementation
23.    Given the country situation discussed in earlier paragraphs, the project implemlienitationl could be
reviewed in three phases.  In Phase I covering the period 1988-1990 (prior to unificationi). PWC
implemented the project satisfactorily (Table 13) and complied Nvith the finanicial covenanits. In Phase 11.
the project implementation suffered badly durinig the period 1990-1995, due to external reasons as
discussed in earlier paragraphs. i.e., unificationi of North and Soutil Yemeni. Gulf War, and resultanit
withdrawal of Kuwait funds for this project, needinig its restructuring, disappearance of PWC and
emergenice of NWSA in 1991, and its inherenlt Histitutional weakinesses, and later the Civil War in 1994.
The implementation status was rated "unsatisfactory/highlly unsatisfactory" (Table 13). In Phase Ill,
covering the period 1995-1998. all outstandlling tasks were successfully completed and the project was
commissioned in August 1998 well ahead of the closing date of December 3 1, 1998.
24.    Durinig Phase 11, delays In the awaird of contracts occurred due to institutionial weakilesses of
NWSA, suspension of disbursemenits by the co-finanicier (Arab Fund), and shortage of couniterpart fuLids
as an aftermath of the Civil War in 1994, decline in the value of Yemeni Rial (YR) when the official
exclhange rate was SI = YR 12, whiereas the market rate was $1 = YR 160. All these factors contributed
to ulisatisfactory progress in the years 1993-1995.
25.    In Junle 1995, the Counltry Portfolio Performanlce Review (CPPR), IDA and GOY agreed to take
steps to improve project implemenitation. The authority of the Project Manager was strengthienied, special
account for IDA funds was transferred fromi Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) Sana'a to its Al Mukalla
Brancih. The counterpart fund issues and the contract adminiistrationi issues caused by exchanige rate
fIuctuiations were resolved.  In addition, IDA strengthienied its implemelitationi team  at the Resident
Mission and made it responsible for effective project supervision. The close cooperation between the
Bank Missioni wNith the concerined minlistries, agencies and frequent interactionl with the project team in
the field, contributed siggnificanitly In the successful completioni of this project.
26.    Whilc physical and techniical assistance objectives of the restructured project were largely met,
compliance with  agreed criteria for financial performialce and cost recovery remains less thani
satisfactory. AlthougIl the legal agreements of the Credit were amended in September 1997 to ensure the
fulfillimenit of finanicial covenanits, the Al Mukalla brancil of NWSA still was unable to cover its operating
costs by the end of 1998. The situationi in Al Mukalla Branchl will not improve unless the GOY, in line
with its sector reform programii, takes steps In liie with the agreements reached under the proposed Sana'a
Water and Sanitationi Project, whereby full autolloilmy will be divested to the Branch,which would be able
to adjust tariffs and maniage its operational costs to ensure cost recovery and to meet all its finanicial
obligations.
27.      The consultanits for the project supervision performed well. They contributed to the redesign of
the project after withdrawal of the Kuwait Fund. They also prepared a good study for the operations and
maintenianice of the project and trained the local staff in various skills needed to satisfactorily operate the
water supply system.  The computerization of the billing system  and traininig of the staff by the
consultants was useful in making some improvements in the financial management at Al Mukal]a Branch.
28.      All contractors performed diligently in spite of the frustrations caused by delays in payment by
NWSA.



Implementation Completion Report                                                             7
29.      The Project has provided additional clean water for the people of Al Mukalla and has
contributed to the improved health and general living conditions of the population. Further, the
environmental benefits in October district would be significanit, as the district's effluent create pools of
stagnant water and other waste which cause unhealthy odors. By providing more water in this district, the
project will improve the flow of effluents and reduce the risk of disease.
E. Project Sustainability
30.   In the short-term, the project sustainability is likelythat: (a) the project has achieved its objective
of sustained water supplies up to year 2002 as estimated in SAR; (b) the Al Mukalla Branch staff has
been well trained in the operations and maintenance of the water supply system: and (c) the equipment
and tools procured under this project will endure operational sustainiability. However, to ensure financial
sustainability, adequate increase in water tariffs to make Al Mukalla Branch financially viable is essential.
For the long-terimi sustainability of this project. every effort should be made to: (a) mobilize future
investments to improve the water distributioni network, provide new meters, reduce water losses, improve
billings, reduce arrears, develop finaticial systems, and efficiently provide water supply to consumers; (b)
strengthenl the management of Al Mukalla Branch, givinig its full autonomy as part of theGovernment's
on-going institutional reform program; (c) improve the improvements in service levels and standards; and
(d) review the sustainability of groundwater resources on a long-term basis.
F. Future Operations
3 1.    To fturther strengthen operations in the project area, the GOY is developing a program focusing
on the following key issues:
(a)  GOY envisages commercial operation of the sector through the establishment of a series of
auton1om0LIs regional water and wastewater corporations, state-owned but independent in day-to-
day operations, under formal regulatory control. GOY would also draw up the legal framework
for private sector participation by December 2001. The newly negotiated Sana'a Water Supply
and Sanitationi Project (SWSSP) is based on the condition that the Sana'a Brancih would be
legallN established as a corporation by 2001 and that GOY tender and award concessions or
manlagemiienit contract for its operations by March 31. 2002, six months prior to closing date of the
proposed SWSSP.  Non-compliance to this IDA condition would hinder anly future IDA
assistance to the sector.
(b)  Further steps will be taken to achieve full cost recovery, includitig the costs of operations
and maintenanice costs, debt service, and future investments. This will be done through new
projects which would ensure that techinical assistance will be provided to improve and implement
a decentralized, computerized financial management system, including cost accounting and tariff
setting mechanisms. Specific actions are planned to improvethe collection of water charges; to
repair or replace broken water meters; to reduce accounts receivable and unaccounted-for-water;
and to settle electricity debts.
(c)  In addition, to support water sector in Yemen including Al Mukalla, in future, IDA projects
would be based on an adaptable program credit, including institutional and technical components
for the cities of Al Mukalla, Taiz, and Hodeidah. This will be a follow-on project to SWSSP,



Implementation Completion Report                                                                 8
provided the conditions set at appraisal and agreed upon during negotiatiolns of SWSSP are
implemented in these branches.
G. ]DA Performance
32.    IDA  staff initially assisted PWC  in the project preparation.  Later, it assisted NWSA  in
restructuring the project. and preparing the institutionial reform  programin I the water sector initiated by
GOY  in collaboration with the other donors (Germian and Dutch).  Despite poor ilmplemiientation
performance in Phases I and 11 and continued noni-comiiplianice with the finanicial covenanlts of the Credit
Agreement. IDA took deliberate decisions in not invokinig remedies available to it ulider the Credit
Agreements. It was done as a part of strategy to support Yemenl's effort in overcoming the di'ficulties
faced during the period followliig unificationi In 1990 to the end of Civil War in 1994. More specifically.
IDA's continued support to this project was based on its decision that water supplN was essential for the
citizens of Al Mukalla.  Thereafter. IDA's decision In providing implemenitation support to the
counterpart agencies, from  the experts at headquarters, as well as by posting specialist staff at the
Resident Mission, significantly contributed co achieve desired results in this project.  Finally. IDA's
contilnued support to the Governmi1ent in the critical period and the post xkar implemilenitatiol sLipport has
resulted in turninig around this project to a successfully completed project physically.
33.    As regards institutioni building aspects, IDA  has contributed in strengtlheninig thle project
managemenit capabilities, strengtlheninig the skills of the Yemenii staff In maintenaice and operations of Al
Mukalla Branch.  In the area of finanicial maniagemiienit, the results are not satisfactory.  With the
introductionl of compuiters, some improvements in the accouLnting and billing have been made. The staff
is being trained to inprove their skills. However, financial managemenit needs further strengtlhenliing. In
order to comply the "breakeven" covenanlt of the Credit Agreemenit, GOY needs to increase tariffs by
anotlher 23 percent.  IDA will continlue toward institutioni building in its dialogue with GOY/NWSA
unider its onigoinig and future projects in this sector.
H. Borrower Performance
34.    The project received strong goverinmiienit and local support. The responsible agency NWSA and
its local branchi office provided active sUpport to the project staff Much of the implementationi delay was
caused by: (a) political factors be\ond their control; and (b) the institutional weaknesses of NWSA,
particularly after the merger of PWC and NWSA. The PIU performed well despite occasional sta'ff
constraints.
35.    As discussed earlier in Phase 1 (1988-1990), PWC complied with all financial covenants. After
merger of PWC and NWSA, the financial conditions of NWSA deteriorated. In Phase 11 (1990-1995),
due to the unsatisfactory affairs at NWSA, and the events following Civil War in 1994, wheni the fmiancial
records of NWSA in Southern part of the country were burnt, and computers and other equiplient
destroyed, the financial statements of integratecJ NWSA could not be produced timely and, conisequently,
audit reports also lagged behind violating the audit covenant of the Development Credit Agreemenlt.
After the CPPR in 1995 and after establishment of a Technical Secretariat (TS) in 1996 to reform the
water sector in Yemen, serious consideration was given to improving financial management of NWSA.
The recommendations made in the IDA supported Computerization Study were reviewed by NWSA. It
led to the computerization of financial systems in NWSA headquarters and provision of some computer



Implementation Completion Report                                                                9
hardware/software for accounting and billing at Al Mukalla Branch. With these improvements backlog in
audit reports up to 1997 were cleared by NWSA.
36.    Since NWSA could not comply with the cost recovery covenanits, which required over 300 to 400
percent increase in tariffs, GOY requested IDA to amend this covenant in 1997, and focus the relevant
covenant on Al Mukalla branch. IDA amended it in September 1997. whereby Al Mukalla Brancih lias to
satisfy "breakeven" (operating costs to meet revenue) covenanit bv tariff adjustments and other measuires
to comply with this covenanit. NWSA  implemenited some tariff increases: however, these were not
adequate to comply with the finanicial "breakeven" covenanit. In suimi, the Borrower complied with the
financial covenants in Phase 1 (1988-1990). Thereafter, the Borrower failed to comply with the financial
covenants during Phase 11 and Phase 111 (1990-1995: 1995-1998) [Table 10]. Therefore, the Borrower's
performance can be concluded as "satisfactory" in that it completed the project successfully in spite of all
odds, which could lead to unsatisfactory' results [Table 1].
1. Assessment of Outcome
37.    The redesigned project achieved its principal objective of increasilng the capacity for potable
water production to the city of Al Mukalla, and of strengtiheniing the institutional capability of the
Borrower. All physical structures of tile project were completed. and techilical assistance was provided
for constructionl supervisioni and staff trainin1g. The project required no resettlement of people.
38.    The project is expected to meet effective demand for water in the Al Mukalla area to the year
2002. To ensure the long-terimi sustainiability of project benefits, the Borrower is committed to grant the
Al Mulkalla brancih of NWSA full autonomy in operathig its facilities, to further improve cost recovery:
and to prepare a follow-oin project focussing oni the rehabilitation and expansion of water distribution and
sewerage networks as well as on strengtheninig the finanicial management systems of the branch. The
Govermillelt has to provide autonomy to Al Mukalla Branch to set its own tariffs in order to ensure its
finanicial viabilitv.
J. Key Lessons Learned
39.    The followiing lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project:
(a)  Close supervision and flexible response to changing conditions can rescue a project that is
facing serious implementation problems.
(b)  For complex projects, expertise and the capability of the experienced contractors is critical
to successful implementation of these projects.
(c)   Delays in providing local currency funds can cause serious interruptions in project
implementation.
(d)  Institutional strengthening, including financial, accounting and management systems under
sector reforms of the Borrower, increases efficient project implementation and the long-term
- sustainability of project benefits.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                 10
(e)  Agreeing with the borrower on implementing up-front financial sector reforms. i.e.,
institutional and financial reforms, commercialization and corporatization, would result in
sustainable projects.
(f)   Defining and clarifying with the Borrower project objectives, and identifying development
impact indicators and project performiatice monitorinig  indicators would  improve project
implementation and management.
(g)  During implementationi. the project encounitered various problems. yet it maniaged to
achieve its major objectives with close cooperation of IDA, cofinaliciers and the Governmenit.
whicih is vital for the successful outcome of sucII projects



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments
Table 2:           Related IDA Credits
Table 3:           Project Timetable
Table 4A:          CumIulative Credit Disbursements
Table 4B:          Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 5:           Key lndicators for Project lmplemenltation
Table 6:           Key lndicators for Project Operation
Table 7:           Studies lncluded in Project
Table 8A:          Project Costs
Table 8B:          Project Finanlcilig
Table 9:           Economic Analysis
Table 10:          Status of Credit Covenanits
Table I 1:         Complianice with Operational Manual
Table 12:          IDA Resources: Staff lnputs
Table 13:          IDA Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
A               Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B               Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
C               Comments from Government
D               Map Section



Implementation Completion Report                                                          12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. ACHIEVEMENT OF
OBJECTIVES                      SUIBSTANTIAL           PARTIAL           NEGLIGIBLE
Financial Obicctives
Institutional l)evclopment
Physical 0b.jectives                  V
Social Objectives                     v
Environmental Objectives              V
B. PROJE(C T
SUSTAINAB[LITY'                    LIKELYL UNLIKELY                      UNCERTAIN
C. IDA PERFORMANCE                 HIGHLtY          SATISFACTORY          DEFICIENT
SATISFACTORY
Idcntii'ication 
I'reparationi Assistancc/
Appraisal                                                  V
Supervision
D. BORROWER                        HIGHLY
PERFORMANCE                    SATISFACTORY         SATISFACTORY          DEFICIENT
IPreparation                                     I
Implementation                                   I
(o% celanit Coomplianice 
Operation                                                  /
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME       SATISFACTORY   j_SATISFACTORY              DEFICIENT
______~~~~ ___I .  .I____



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                    13
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
CREDIT TITLE                              PURPOSE                         YEAR OF                    STATUS
APPROVAL
Credit S-2l-YDR -            To formulate a phased programil ot'sorks         1978                  Completed
Water Suppl\                to mect the urban \kater nceds in (ircater
Ingineering                  Aden and Mukalla up to \car 2000 as \cell
as preliminarx design tor the smualler to\ n
of' laiboos.
Credit 1(038-YDR -           I'o make up the curreint deficit in \ ater       1981)                 Completed
Greater Adcn W'ater         suppl\ to (ireater Aden and to pro\ ide
Supply                       somile rehabilitationi ot'thc existing x\atcr
suppl\ S\ysteIll.
Crcdit 11 59-YDR-AI          'I'o meet the \sater suppl\ demand through       1981                  Completed
Mukalla Water Suppl\        rehabilitation ot cxisting \%atcr suppl\
and Saniitation             system.
Rehabilitation
Credit 14118-YI)R-           'I'o carry out thie lirst stace conistruCtioll   1984                  Complctcd
Seixun Regional Watcr        acti ities unider a long-terim s\ ater supplN
SuppIN                       miaster plan for the Wadi I ladranima  t.
in\ olI ing the tapping and distributioni of
\Nater from the dcep aquiler rcquired to
mect thc demand in (ireater Sci\ un area up
to the \car 1995.
Credit 1739-YD)R-            'I'o carry out the second stage constructioll    1987                  C'ompleted
(rcatcr Adein Watcr          activities under a long-terill \ater supply
SuIppix 11                   master plan and seeks to increase the
criticallk short supply of'potable water to
mect peak demands in the metropolitan
area of Aden througLh the sear 2t)t)0.
'rcrdit 2 1 70-YlA' 1'larim  l'o meet the w\ater supply demand and to         1990         'Io be completcd by June 1999
Water SuppIN 1'rojcct        impro\c finanicial performance.
Table 3: Project Timetable
DATE ACTUAL/LATEST
STEPS IN PROJECT CYCLE                        DATE PLANNED                            ESTIMATE
Idenitificatioln                                    November 1986                        December 1986
Preparationi                                       Januarn-April 1987                  January-June 1987
Appraisal                                              June 1987                            July 1987
Negotiations                                         February 1988                          May 1988
Board Approval                                         May 1988                           July 19. 1988
Signinig                                             August31 1988                      October 17, 1988
Effectiveness                                      February 17. 1989                      June 9, 1989
Project Completion                                    June 30 1995                       August 31, 1998
Credit Closing                                     December 31. 1995                   December 31, 1998



Implementation Conmpletion Report                                                                             14
Table 4A: Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
APPRAISAL  FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Estimate          83       23 7    4.78     7 17    9.13    18.55    I I S    1        12.00    12.10   12 0i
Actual            -        0.55    0.64     1.58     2       2.39    2.66      4.28     5.84   8X87     12.16
Actual as % of
Estimate          0       23      13       23       24      23       23       36      49       74       1 0
Table 4B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(SDR Million)
EXPECTED
CATEGORY                 ORIGINAL    REVISED    DISBURSED  UNDISBURSED
Civil Works/ Equipment               6.6()                -                 7.61
Consultants/Training                 1.23                 -                 1.(9
Unallocated                          0.87                 -
T =otal                              8.70                 -                 8.70



Implementation Completion Report                                                                     15
Table 5-A: Key Indicators For Project Implementation
Project Component
SAR                                   Actual                                    Comments
(i) Drilling and equipping of a    Completed.                                 Water supply was commissioned in August
borefield at An-Naga'ah together                                              1998.
with associated works.
(ii) A transmission pipeline of    Completed.                                 Water supply was comimlissioned in August
about 50 Km from the borefield                                                1998.
to Al Mukalla.
(iii) Re-equipping and          Modified to supply ten pumps ftor Wadi        Due to the drop in water level at Wadi
upgrading of the Wadi Buwaysh   Buwaysh.                                      B3uwaysh well field, the yield decreased: it
borefield.                                                                    was necessary to provide suitable pumilps
f'or these wells.
(iv) Improvement and            A contract was signed between ECG and NWSA   This componient was excluded due to the
strengthening of primary and    on October 1, 1991. To review this componlent,  followinlg reasons:
secondary water distributiofi   ECG submitted the Inception Report in March    (a) the lack of ftund to execute the maini
networks.                       1993. Based on the recommiienidationls made,  contracts 3A and 3B after the Gulf crises,
this component was excluded from the project    (b) no updated maps were available to
scope. Later, Genian donor (KfW) has picked    continue the activities, producing new
up a small portion of this compotienit.       maps would increase the cost of the
contract amount and; (c) the cost of
contract 3B was over estimated: therefore,
it was decided on April 2, 1993 to save
fund for the main contract 3B by excluding
this component.
(v) Supply of water meters,     Water meters have been supplied by Kent Water  These meters were used by NWSA.
tools and operational and office    Meter LTD. Tools and operational and office
equipment.                      equipmilenit have been provided under the
Contractor's and Consultant's contract.
(vi) Construction and           It was found after inspection of the existing  No rehabilitation of the existing reservoirs
rehabilitation of reservoirs to  reservoirs at Bahush and Khalf that they were in   was done. New reservoir at Khalf was
meet daily peak demanld.        very bad conditions and rehabilitation will cost   completed.
nearly the cost of a new reservoir. It was
decided to construct a new reservoir at Khalf
instead of rehabilitation of the existing reservoir.
(vii) P'rovisioni of technlical  1. The consultant (ECG) was appointed to study   1. The consultants completed their study.
assistance to NWSA including    the detection and control of water losses (item  (See comments in item (iv) above).
detectionl anid control of water    (iv) above).                              2. Construction supervision was
losses. systeimi analysis and   2. ECG provided construction supervision and    satisfactory. NWSA staff was given on the
operationi. conistructionl     trainiig of Al Mukalla staff.                 job training in operations and maintenatnce.
supervision, f1itlanicial       3. The consultant was appointed for           3. Billing Payroll System was compieted.
performance. selection and      computerizationi of the Billing Payroll and   Accounting System computerization in
dcvelopimieiln: of'a computerized    Accounting System.                       progress.
dccoLunitinig system and training.   4. Traininig of Al Mukalla staff in      4. Selected financial staf'f of Al Mukalla
computerization.                              Branch has been trained.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          16
Table 5-B: Key Indicators for Implementation Date
IMPLEMENTATION DATE
INDICATORS                                      ESTIMATED                    ACTUAL
1. Appoint lPro ject Manager                                                 05/88                     06.88
2. Appoint Consultants tor Construction Super\ isici:
a) Boretlicld                                                             o)289                      07/89
b) Pipeline                                                              (028)                       08)X,'495
3. Dcxclop An Naga'ah borcfleld
a) Supply xcell casings & screen                                          19 ')                     ()91
b) Drill and test wkells                                                  (10,992                   0)2/93
4. Construct Transmission Pipeline                                           1)393                      1)8 '98
5. Supply Operational I.quipment                                             12/91                      12i98
6. Complete Financial P'erformance Stud\ and (onpulititcriicd                03/90)                     10(/98
Accounts
7. C'omplete Stafl.'lraining                                                 0)3/95                    04/99



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                     17
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation
Staff Appraisal Report (June 22, 1988)
Public Works Corporation
(Prior to merger)
Indicators                     1988       1989       1990      1991        1992       1993        1994  |  1995
1. Staffing 
No. of Employees' -SAR                1(2(        1040    |i            1)0      10(90       I 105      112(0      1135
Stafl-per 1000 Connections            1 1.5          1.3   j 1 I         11.(       10(8        1( 6       10 4       10.3
11. SN sternOperation_
Water Sold 10"rn'/vear                24 7        25.9      2( 6       27        2X 6        30.1        31.7       33.0
II. System Operationar               3.7                              7275      26           (.         317       30
Water Produced     i/year             33.7        35 2      36 3       37.2      34          40(5        42.5       44 4
L Unaccounted for water. o           26.8        26.3      2 .2       260 2(     5 6        25.6                   25-5
No of'Service Connections             889((       91X0()    94800    9750(0       1(0(07(00)   1039(1(0    1073(0(  110700
111. Managcment and Finance
Operating Ratio. %                       73          8()       81         83         79          78         8(1       X 
Rate of Return %                        7.(        4.1        4       3  3          41         4.2         3.5       3.7
Current Ratio                           2.()        I 6                  1 2        1.5         17         2.3       3 2
_ Dcbt-l7quity Ratio                    134 60         32:69     3():7()    28:72      26 74       26:74      24:76     22.7X
DI)eht-Service Coverage                 2.3        I1.7       I      .X   1.9       2.1        2 I         1 7        1 7
Average 'I'arifl: YI)/m'                ) 2()2    ( 21(1    ).21X      (227       (.236       (.245      ( 255      ( 265
Sel-ttinancinig Ratio %                                                                                                02 12 (  )2(  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0
Excluding thosc engaged in capital works,
Actual - Al Mukalla Water Supply Project
Al Mukalla Branch
Indicators                     1992       1993       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998        1999
l  1l   1   1  i                                        % l   l   | Estimates
II Stal'linlg                               1                                    
No. of Fmployces    SAR               357         357       358        355       346        355       396        4(04
Staif per 01()(( Connections          12 7        12.3       12.()     11.4    |1()1        10.4       1(0.4     1(0.6
II1  Ssst cm I Iperation                    ll                    l         l                 
Water Sold I( 0hi'/N var            || 4 1        4.2       3 6        4.4       4.5        4.8        5.0       5.()
|   Watcr I'rn duced I LF1''/Nier   11 5.3        6.()      5 5        5.8       6.7        7.2       7.5        7.5
t J,,i naceonteo ii r w ater.        24          3(0       34         24        33         34      | 34         34
No. of Servicc (olneetions          1| 27556      29361)    30334    31046    33707    34449    3770()(   38(077
III Mana1agcmcnit andi FVinanllcec - -----
Operatinig Ratio, !  _                            -0.2    | 0.01       0 21      -0.05      -0.34    |-023      0(.21
Rate of'RetUrn '1                    -           -          14 7%0    25.0%      28.7%     22.0%      18.5%0  | 24 2%
(ttrrent Rti(i                       -           6.07       4.01      3.86       3.57      2.00       1.85      2.27
_____ 1Dchl-l:qttily Ratio                               0.93       1.02      1.67       0.78      1.16       0.47      0.31)
I Debt-Service (overage                          -          -         -          -         -          - j
Averge I'arill. YD)/m'             |             7.09       9.96      10.80      16.89      16.52     26.25     42.54
Self-fillancitig Ratio                                             I -  -                                                 |
NOTE: The above is io,l comparable siince Pl ' merged with VZ'SA and became National Water and
Sanitation Authoritv. Later, the financial covenant was modified andfocused on the Al Mukalla branch. Debt-
se rvlice coverage and self-financing r atio are not available due to lack of data related to loans/borrowvings.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                     18
Table 7; Technical Studies
STUDY                     STATUS                            IMPACT
Ernst & Young     -
Review NWSA's overall financial     contract cancelled
performance.                        bv NWSA.
ECG study on detection and control    Completed.        lilmprovc thc dlistributioni systemii by detection and
of water losses, system analysis.                     conitrol of w'ater losses in Al Mukalla area.
Computerization of Billing System   Completed.         I inprove thlc inilici.al performanice.
and Computer Training.
Table 0A: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Item                    Local      Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign   Actual
An-Naga'ah borefield                       0.35       4.64       4.99       0.09      3.65       3.74
Pipeline to Al Mukalla                      1.14     14.1 1     15.25       4.29       9.(      13.29
Wadi Buwaysh Borefield lJpgrading          0.17        1.78       1.95      0.01      0.13       0.14
Improvements to Distribution System        0.67       2.90       3.57       0.01      0.22       0.23
Additional Storage Reservoirs              0.12        1.15       1.27      0.02       1.98      2.00
Supply of Operational Equipment            0.03       0.44       0.47       0.02      3.00       3.02
Training and Technical Assistance          0.09       0.96        1.05      0.01      0.24       0.25
Construction Supervision                   0.16        1.20       1.36      0.05       1.34      1.39
'I'otal Base Cost                       2.73 -   27.18       29.91          -         -
Physical Contingencies                     0.27       2.59       2.86
Allowance for Price Incrcase               0.30        1.64       1.94         -          -
'I'otal Project Cost                    3.30      31.41      34.71       4.50     19.56     24.06
Notc: 'I he avaiilble foreign fuinid after cancellation of KFAED loan was USS2 1.75 million.
Table 8B: Project Financing
I(US$ Million)
SOURC E                 APPRAISAL            LATEST ESTIMATE
ESTIMATE
IDA                                    12.00                   12.00
Araib inLlid                            9.70                    7.52
KLit hil lnd                            9.70                    0.04
(iovcrienlci:i                          3.30                    4.50
Total                       34.70                    24.06



Republic of Yeiiien                                                                        P au  I of 2
Al Mukilla Wdler Siip;.ly Pi,jtel
lr,iplecllritallori Colirplelion Repodl Ecoiroirirc Analysis
WTM PROJECT
Ref                                    1996       1397         *99S         1939       2000       2001       2002     2003      2004     2005      2()16     2007     2008      21)09    2010-21
Walter Availale (000 m3lyeas)
2 Exsting Sowces                       2 554       2 5n4        2 5b4       2 554       2.554     2.554     2.554     2.554    2.554     2,554     2,554    2.554     2,554     2.554    2.554
3 New Projeci (An Naga-i)                                       1 OGO       5 992       5,992     5 992     5 992     5.992    5 992     5 992     5 992    5 992     5.992    5 992     5 992                16
2 554      2.554         3 554      8 546       8.546      8.546    8.5446    8,546 8.546    8,546         8 546    8.541G    8,546     8.54G     8,546
4  tFt                                  0 34        c 34         0 34        0 bO        050 0                50       050      0 50      050       0 50     0 50      050      0 50      0 50 
Axadable                            1 686       1,686        2.346       4.273       4,273     4 273     4.273     4,273    4.273     4.273     4,273    4.273     4.273     4.273    4.273
Tariff RY/m3Imonthf                                                                                                                                                                                             O
6 Annual Increase                                                                        0 30       0 20      0 10     0 10      0 10     0 10      0 10      0 10     010       0 10      0 10
7 Domestic * Govtl
0-10                                    1S         15             5          15      19 50      23 40     25 74    28 31     31 15    54 29     3/ b9    41 45    45 60      50 16    55 18
11-20                                  30          30            10         30       39 00      46 80     51 48    56 63     62 29    68 52     75 37    82 91      1 20   1G0 32    110 35
21-30                                  50          50            27         50       65 00      78 00     85 80    94 38    103 82    114 20    125 62    138 18   152 00    167 20    183 92
.30                                    60          60           44          60       7800       9360    10296    11326    12458    13704    15074    16582    18240    20064    22070
7 Commnerdal                              60         b6            50          60          78      9360    10296    11326    12458    13704    15074    10582    18240    20004    22070
8 Billing Error Factor                                                       0 48        0 41      U 35      0 29     0 25      0 21      0        01h  o l  0 13      0 11     0 09      0 08 
fb
Revenues (RY 000)
Water                               76,356      79.385       85.743     118.119     174,817    231.467   274.891   321.339   371,199   424.894   482 Eh0   545658   613,772   687.816   b68.442
Sewer
7  10% Surclarge                           0           0                    11,812     17,482     23,147    27.489    32,134    37.120    42489    48268    54.566    61.377    66.782   76,844    r>
Other                               29,270     27.343        25,000      25,000     25,000     25 GOO    25 000   25 iO   25.000   25 0OG    25 000    25 000    25 000    25 000    25.00'    C 0
Total                                  105,826     106,728      110,743     S54.931     217.298    279.613   327.380   378.473  433,319   492.383  556 168  b25.224   700,140   781.508  870,286    o
Opertaing Expenses
10  Wages & Related                     65,136      66,439       61,767      67.767     67.767     67,76 7    67.767    67.767    67.767    67.767    b7 767    67.767   07.7b7    b7,767   67767
10  Electicity                          25.712      25.712       43.196      47.516      52,267    5b449    609b5    65.842    71,109    76.7J58    629.12    89577    96.743  104.483  112,841     >
10  Fuel & Oil                           3.733       3.808        4,188       4,188       4,188     4,188     4,188    4,188     4,188     4.158    4 168    4.188      4.1b8    4.188    4.188    ti
10  Chemicals                               85         87            95          95         95         95        95       95        95       95             95      9S              9S 5            <
10  Maintenance                          7,382       7.382        7,751       7.751       7.751     7 751     7,.51    7,751     7751      i i Il    7 ;t'    7.751     7.751    7.751     7,751    '
10  G&A                                  2.031       2031         2 133       2.133       2.133     2 133    2,133    2.133      2,133     2 153    2 133    2,133      2.133    2.133     2.133    i
Sub-total                              104.079     105.458      125,131     129.451     134,202    138.384   142.900  147.777   153.044   159 733   164 677   171.512   178,678  186.418  194,776
Operating Income                          1.547      1.270      -14.389      25.481      83,096    141.230   184,480  230,696   280,275   33i,650  391 292  453.712   521.471   59180  675,510
10 Interest                             1.876       1,876         1,876      1.876       1.876      1876     1.876     1.876     1 876    1.876     I 876     1,876    1.876     1.876    1,6/6
11 HOCharge                            10,563      10673         11.074     15.493      21.730     27.961    16.369   18.924    21.666   24.G19    11,123    12.504    14.003    15,632   17.406
Net Inrome (RY 000)                     -10,892    -11.279       -27.339      8,111      59.490    111.392   100.235  209,696   250.733   307.155   378 292   439.331   505,592  577.672  656.228
Project tnvestmnenl  Disbuis %  -          0 2         0 2          0 4         0 2
12 An-NaCaahBonetield                 104,720    104.720       209.440     104.720
12 Wadi Buwaysh borefield               3.920      3.920         7.840       3.920
12 Pi,pene                           372120      372.120       744,240    372,120
12 Dist System                        62440       62,440       124,680     62.440
12   Lq.g.q)e, ti I rr.C.o                        ( fItr1r.(.  161   1.(  111n 1(.1(
12 Supeuvss&                           3ei920     Jr-a2 '       771140     311 r 'U
Total                            666 680     666,680     1,333.360    666.680
Noet WdPrqed                          (677.572)   (677,959)   (1,360,699)   (658.569)   59,490    111,392   166.235  209.896   256.733  307.155   378.292   439,331   505.592   577.672  656.228



Republ.c of Yenmen                                                                                                Page 2 0 2
Al 7.ukall V Wale- S,,7ply Project
I,"rarz  1011311 CoP0-0l.Son Repon Econom,c A,,alys,s
VWTHOUT PROJECT
Rel                                                                                   2000        21         002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007      2008      2000    2010t21
tle Avalble, MOO maIearl
2  Em"gSources                         2,554       2 554        2.554      2,554       2,554      2.554    2.554    2.554    2.554    2.554    2.554       2,554    2.554    2.554      2.554
3 Neu Protect (An  aga'a6)               .                                                                                   a i
2.554      2.554        2.554       2,554       2.554     2,554    2,554    2,5         ,5       .54      25        .5       2.54     2.54      2,
2,554    2,554    ~~~~~~~~~~2,5S4 2,554    2,55         SS4 24R
4LUFW                                              03             3455                                                                                                                 255
4  7.*W              034         034          034        ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~     ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~0 50  0 50  0 50  0 50  0 50  0 50  0 50  050o  0 50  050o  0 50  0I50 
A.adable                            1 68.5      1.586        15486       1.277       1.277     12~77     1.277    1.277    1.277     1.277     1,277    1,277    1.277     i,27?    1.277
Taruf FRYmrVnDnEth)
Annsuallncrease                                                                   030           020       010      010       010      010       010       010      010       010      010
Oomestlc * Gov t                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
0110                                 'S00       1500           500       1500        1950      23 40    25 74    28 31    31 15    34 26    37 69    41 45    45 50    SOl O         55 la
11-20                               30 00       30 00        10 00       30 00       39 00     46 80    5148      5563    62 29    64 52    75 37    a2 91    51 20   100 32    110 35
21-30                                50 00      50 00        2700         o 000      65 00     78 00    85 B0     94 38   103 82   114 20   125 f2    134 15    152 00   167 20    183 92
*30                                  6000       60 00        44 00       60 00       78 00     93 60   102 96   113 26    124 5S    137 04   150 74   165 82    142 40   200 64   220 70
Con'eUsal                            6000        0000         5000      56000        7800      9360    10290    11326   12458    13704    15074    16582    14240   20084    22070
Bifling Eror Factor                                                      0 48        0 48       0 48     0 48      0 44     0 48      0 48     0 46      0 44     0 48      0 48      0 48
Expense Increase Factrs
Labor                                           2 00%        2 00%      000%        0 00%      0        000%      000b    0 00       000%     000%      0o0     % 0         00%     0 00%
ElecIncily                                      000h%       0o00%       1000%     1000%      1000%    1000% .   t00b%  1000-h   1000b   1000'b   1000%    1000%    tO00%    1000%
Fue.Oil, Chem,caIs                              200%        1000%      .1000%       000%       000%    000%    000%        000%    000%    0O00%        000%     000%      000%     000%
Re'.nues /RY 000)
Water                               76,355     79.385       61,517      35.300      45,890    55,069   60,575   66,633   73,295    40626    44584    9755?   107313   114,044   129,44
Sewer
10% Surcharge                           0           0                    3,530       4,589     5.507    6,058    6,663      7,330    8.063    8,469    0.75G1   10.731    11,804    12.985
Other                              29270       27,343       2 0 o                   25.000    25.000   25,0Do    25,000   25.000   25.000   25.000   25.000   25,000   25.000   25,000
Total                                  105.626     106.728       86,617     63,430      75.480    85,575   91.633   98,296  105,626   113,668  122.557   132,.313   143.044   154.849  167.834
Opertaing Expenses
Wages & Related                     65,135     66.439        67.76?     67.767      57,767    57,757   67,767   57,767   67,767   67,767   6..757    G7,7,7 67.77   67717    67767
Electriciy                          25.712     25,712       43.196      52.267      57.494    62.094   67,061    72.426   78.220   84,4 8   91.236   98.535   10i4,14 18  114.931   124.125
Fuel & Oil                           3.733      3,808        3,808       3.608       3,808     3.808    3,808    3,808    3.800    3.808    3 B08    3.8a8    3.808    3404          3,808
Chenmicats                             45          87           87          87         87         87        87       87        87       87       87        87        87       87        87
Maintenance                          7.382      7.382        7,751       7,751       7.751      7,751    7,751    7.751    7,751     7,751     7,751    7 751    7.751      7 751    7.751
G&A                                  2,031                                           2,031     2,031     2.031    2.031     2.031    2,031 2.031        2,331     2. 031    2.03'0 2.031
Sub-total                              104,079     105,458      124,640    133,711     138.934    143.538  148.505  153,870   159,664  165,922  172,G80   179,97!)  187.8112, 1>1; I375  205.56.
Operatingt nconie                        1547        1.270      -38.023     -65.881    -53.450    -57962   -56472   55574  .54,034   -52.23   .50123   -47,6   44.1517   .41.520   337.73G
1nterest                             1,876      1,876         1,876      1.876       1,875      1,876    1.876    1.876     1,876    A.470     1.610    1.577.    1 477. 7    71,    1.476
IlOCharge                          10,563      10.673        8,602      6,343       7.548      8,558    4.582    4,915    5.281    5.684    2,451 2I1;64          IIG,1    3.097    3.357
Net Incwnw (RY 0001                    -10,892     -11,279      -484561    .74,140     -72.882   -65 6   53.            .3    -61,195   59,794  .54450   .5s1 It.tl  495D'* 4           -42.904
NETFINANCIAL:WITH - W/O              (666,6801  (666,6801   (1.312,1341   (550.4291    132.373    179,768  229,565  272.261   317,929  366.949  432.742   491.519  555.140   624.172  691,197
t3iscounl Rate         10 00%
Npr (YR 000)          913,800
FIRR                   12 51%
CONVEFSiON FACTOR
FOREX Perurrm                      12 22%       8 33%        7 72%       8 68%
Loca%ofC W              tO0%
ECO9I011C                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'
Efted olFOREX                       8.150       5.551       10.293       5.786
NET ECOWOC                            1674 8301   1672.2321   11322,431)   1586.2151    132,373    179,788  229,565  272,261  3170929  316G945  432,742  491i5t3  555,140  624,172  GD3.197
Deia  Rame              1 00%
trI (yROE1O)          890119
12 43%



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                       21
Table 10: Status of Credit Covenants
Covenant    Present         Original         Revised
AXgreement    Section         Tvpe         Status    IFulfillment       Fulfillment        I)escription of Co-enant              Comments
Date             Date
Credit       401l(b)          I           NC            NA               NA           13orrower to have records and    Dela) is due to (i) late
( i )         i                                                       ilaccounts audited each fiseal     appointment of
4.0 Q(b)                                                                year fbr all expenditures made   auditor. and (ii) dela s
(ii)                                                                  on the basis of'statement of       in consolidation of'
expenditures (SOI ) and           accounts due to late
special account by                submission of'trial
iicndepedent auditors             balances from
acccptable to ID)A. and fimriiislh  branchces.
hlic uidit report ninlCe months
alter thc end of each fiscal
SeCar- along X tlh a separate
oplln_(mp ho  thc auditors
Project       4 01(b)        (I           NC         61 S! 1 92          NA           NWN'SA shalil fimnish to Il)A:    D)cla  is due to (i) late
(11)                                                                      a) si\ imonths iettcr the end ot'  appointmlent of
Cachi \ car. its uLnaudidted       audditor, and (ii) delaNs
financial statemnents alld those   in conisolidattion of'
of' the Ali Wkalla Branch for    accounts due to late
such seair: and (b) ninie         subiilssioll of trial
moniths after the end of each     balances from
year. audit report anid audited    branches.
f;mlllcinil statemncits o fits
accounts and those of'Al
Muktalla Branich.
Project       4.02(a)        (12          NA            NA               NA           NWSA shall maintain a debt-    Not applicable aiter
service cov erage of not less     modifying this
than I .2.                        covenant
Project       4.03(a)        02           NC'           NA               NA           Al Mukalla 13ranch shall          Not complied in spite
producc for each ol its FY        of tarin hincreases.
total revenues equiv;alent to
not Icss thI a  thc SUIl of'( I) its
total operating expenses.
'roiject      4()3(h)         )2          NA            NA               NA           13efore Novemibier 30 of'eachi     Not complied earlier.
ear. NWSA shall, on the           It is not rcquired after
basis of realistic forecasts and    the coveniant 4.03(a)
satisfactory to lIDA  revie\\ the  s\as modihied.
adequacs of its revcnues fromii   tocussing on Al
operatlios toi meet the            Mukal Ia lirraici.
requirements sct tortlt in
section 4 (03(a) above, in
respect of SUCIh Nyeatr anld the
next following FY. and shall
fumish to 11)A the results of
such review.
prroject      2()0(i)        (9            C            NA               NA           Progress reports to bc received       ('omiplied \\itt.
within 6 months after end oi'
each calendar year
(         UNenlPt P I'!jes:
I AccountsIit/atidit                                             8. Itndigenous Pleople
2 t:initicial pertorinatice/gencratc revenue from beneticiaries  9. Monitoring. reviex, and reporting
3 HIoss and utili,ation of project fuids                        I 0. Project implementation not covered by' categories 1-9.
4 (CounLIterpart funding                                        1I 1 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation                                                      1 2. Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
5 Nianagemienit aspects ot' the project or eXecuting agenco     1 3. Other
7 Invo ld untanr resettieilieeit
(6 I n1`ironmlental covenants
Status:
C' -oomplied with CD - complied with after delay; NC - not complied with; CP - complied with partially; NA - Not Applicable



Implementation Completion Report                                                                              22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project operations fully complied with IDA's operational guidelines.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Iniputs
(US$Thousand)
Planned                   Revised                    Actual
Stage of Project Cycle      Weeks          US$        Weeks          US$        Weeks          US$
Through Appraisal              N. A.        N. A.        N. A         N. A          2!            54
Appraisal - Board              N. A.        N. A         N A          N A.          36            96
Board - FIffectiveniess        N. A.        N. A.        N A.         N A.            5           13
Supervision                    N. A.        N. A.        N A          N A           121          387
Completioll                    N A          N A           7.0.         28(0          12          32
Totail              N A           N.A.         7   1        28.0         195          582



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          23
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project      Month/    Number    Days in           Specialized      Implement-        Develop-       Type of Problems
Cycle             Year          of         Field       staff skills     ation Status        ment
Persons                 Represented                        Objectives
Through Appraisal         NA            3           98         I.(/IUN/SF           NA              NA                  NA
Appraisal - Board         NA            3           29       I.C/FN/SI./I.(         NA              NA                  NA
13oard - Eltectixeness    12/88         2           35           I:N SI              S               S                  NA
Supervision               6/89          2           15           I-N Si I            S                                  NA
11/89         1           8              Si                S               S                  NA
8/9(          2           I7           FN/Si:             (I               S                  NA
2/91          2           6           I:N/SI:             11               S                  ('Il
6/91          3           7         I:N/Sl:i('()          lI               S                C'C'
9/91          2           5           FN/SI'              (I               S                ('1U'C
3/92          75                      FN2  S'              I               S             ('C1'1C/()1('
8/92          1           5             FN                IU               S             C(:/1:('U/()1('
10/92         4           5        i.C/l:N/SE/C(()        IRi             Ill         CF(I:/l/()l.'/PM/'PR
2/93          3           7          I:N/SI'(2j          IIU              Ili)        (T'UI:C'U )I.C'PNM/'PR
8/93          2 '         4           I:N/SF             IIU              IIlJ           ('1/1:'/()1.'
1/94          2           3           FN/SF               t               lJ             CF'/FC'/(I.C
5/94          1      ,    3             Si:               t                U             ('1/1:'/01.('
9/94          2           4           I'C/SF              tU               U            (CIl:`('/C(LC'/P
4/95          3           3          lC'/I:N/SI           U                S                  PR.
6/95          2           6           UN/SI                S               S                  NA
9/95          I           6             SI.               S                S                  NA
3/96          2           6           FN/SF               S                S               ('1/(1.(
X/96          2           4           FN/SI               I                S               ('1/().'
11/9(6        2           4            I:N/S               U               S                  I:C'
3/97   1      3      ,   4    !      FI:N/SI./IS          S                I               ('1/(1'
101/97        3           4          I:N/SE/IS             S               S                  NA
3/98          3           7           EC/SE               S                S                  NA
(omplelion                12/99         3           7          IEC/FN/IS             S               s                  NA
Stalff Skills K1y                                         'l-! pe of Problems:
1U(-     IConon;isI                                       CF-      Counterpart Funds
l:N-     Financial Analyst                                FC-      Financial Covenant
IS-      Impleilemintali(oin Specialist                   OLC-    Other Legal Covenant
00)-    )Operationis (O)Jicer                             PM-      Project Management
P0-      Proleic Olt'icer                                 PR-      Procurement
SEl      Sanitary Engineer                                NA-      Not Applicable/Not Available
UP-      Urban Planner
CO-      Consultant
LC       Lcgal Counsel



Implementation Completion Report                          24
ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING



Republic of Yemen
National Water and Sanitation Authority
Al-Mukalla Water Supply Project (Cr. 1944 - YEM)
Aide-Memoire (November 29 to December 20, 1998)
A.    Introduction
1.    An IDA  mission comprising Messrs./Mme. Somin Mukherji, Uruj Kirmani, Josephine
Masanque, All Khamis and Sergio Calegari calTied out the coompletion supervision mission of the above
project during November/December 1998. Subsequently, Messrs. Kirmani and Rangachar carried out
discussions with NWSA and the project authorities on various requiremiients related to preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission would like to thank the officials and staff of the
Ministry of Planning & Development (MOPD), Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW), National
Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA), Technical Secretariat (TS) for Sector Reformns, for all the
courtesies and assistance extended to the mission members. This Aide-Memoire summarizes the
mission's findings and agreements reached with the Govemment of Yemen (GOY) and NWSA at the
wrap-up meeting held on December 17, 1998 with NWSA and December 20, 1998 with the MOPD, and
is subject to confirmation by IDA management.
B.    Status of Project Implementation
2.     Background. The objective of the project is to meet the future water demand in Al-Mukalla. The
project is to assist in the supply of water to the inhabitants of Al-Mukalla. An IDA Credit for SDR8.7
million (US$ 12.0 million equivalent) was approved on July 19, 1988 and declared effective on June 9,
1989 and the Credit Agreement was signed on October 17, 1988. After the Gulf crisis (January 1991) the
Kuwait Fund withdrew its co-financing and the project had to be restructured May 1991. Thereafter,
intemal political tensions built up culminating in civil disturbances during mid - 1994. Thus, project
implementation suffered from the very beginning and negligible progress was made until 1995. In
September 1997, the project was retrofitted to ensure that adequate funds were available to complete the
main project components. The amended project scope focused on the water production system and
institutional strengthening of NWSA and dropped the rehabilitation and strengthening of the water
distribution network.
3.     Physical Works. The physical works as envisaged during the project design consisted of the
followinig: (a) drilling and equipping of a borefield at An Naga'ah together with associated works; (b) a
transmission pipeline (50 kin) from borefield to Al-Mukalla; (c) re-equipping and upgrading of the Wadi
Buwaysh borefileld; (d) improving and strengthening of primary and secondary water distribution
networks; (e) construction and rehabilitation of reservoirs to meet daily peak demand; and (f) water
meters, tools, operational and office equipment. During restructuring of the project components (c), (d)
and (f) were cancelled. The remaining works viz., components (a), (b) and (e) have all been completed
satisfactorily and ahead of schedule and water from the An-Nagah field is currently flowing to Al
Mukalla.



2
During site visit, the mission however noted that borehole no.17 cannot be operated, probably
because of boulders thrown into it. With funding provided from NWSA's internal sources, a new
borehole at 2 m distance is currently under vway: its completion is expected by end December 1998.
Operation of the water distribution network remains unsatisfactory. Most of the meters do not
wvork properly; hence, two major project monitoring indicators (water sold and unaccounted-for) cannot
be correctly ascertained. Thus, estimates provided by NWSA for these indicators are unreliable and at
best provisional. Based on experience of similar conditions in other countries, the order of magnitude of
the unaccounted-for water for Al-Mukalla water distribution network could be more than 50%.
C.    Technical Assistance:
7.     Status. During appraisal, several studies rclated to institutional development were foreseen
w,ithin the framework of the project. The status of these is as follows:
(i) Study to carry out detection and control of losses - Not done;
(ii) Study on system analysis and operation - Not done;
(iii) Improvement of financial performance - Being carried out separately through the sector
reformn program;
(iv) Development of a computerized accounting system and training - Done;
(v) Providing on-the-job training and fellowships - Done;
(vi) Study to determine the training needs of NWSA and the Development of a five-year training
program - Not done;
(vi) Computerization of billing - M/S Alpha Center Services was appointed (November 5, 1998)
to assist the Al Mukalla Branch in carrying out data entry; initiate computerized bills and provide
necessary training to Branch staff in other related software applications. Coincidentally, three
NWSA staff members have also been deputed at the Branch office to carry out various statistical
data computation; this is well timed and is expected to complement the training efforts being
provided by M/S Alpha Centre. The training is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
Currently, out of about 30.000 customners of the Al-Mukalla Branch, 24,000 bills have been
computerized. All customers are expected to be computerized by early January 1999 and starting
trom this month, all bills for the Al-Mukalla branch will be computerized.
D.    Follow Up Project
It was agreed with NWSA that the Al-Mukalla branch should immediately undertake the
preparation of a follow-up project (the Second Al-Mukalla Water Supply and Sanitation Project), based
on the following considerations:
(a)    The sustainability of the completed Al-Mukalla Water Supply Project is closely depending on the
implementation of the proposed new  operation. Actually, the new production waterworks
provoke importanit pressure increases in the water distribution network, which is bursting
continuously in several zones. To remedy this situation, the Al-Mukalla branch has organized
several repair teams working on a continuous basis. In other terms, the benefits of the new
production waterworks to the population would be much higher if the network was rehabilitated
and reinforced, to reach a satisfactory unaccounted- for water in the order of 15-20%;



3
(b)    The new production waterworks will increase the water consumption and, hence, increases the
need to rehabilitate and expanding the current sewerage system and implementing individual
sanitation wherever appropriate (i.e., residential areas). The sanitation component of the follow-
up project is of the utmost importance, given the current bad hygienic conditions created by the
sewage which is currently discharged into the wadi crossing the city of Al-Mukalla; and
(c)    Drastic improvements in cost recovery measures needs to be implemented through a carefully
designed customer management component
E.    Finance and Accounts:
8.     Audit Reports. The FY97 audit report and audited accounts, including those for the Special
Account and Statement of Expenditures due by end-Septernber 1998 have not yet been finalized and are
now expected around mid-March 1999. The mission noted that the delay in the submission of trial
balance by the branches, was a major factor in consolidation of all branch accounts on time.
Furthermore, late appointment of private auditors (September 1998) delayed the process further. This is
clearly not acceptable as, such delayed finalization of accounts and the audit report would serve little or
no purpose to NWSA management as all the inforrmation contained would be old and not worth taking
quick corrective measures. NWSA agreed to look into the specific branches that had delayed the
preparation of trial balances and to inform IDA on specific steps that would be taken to resolve this
problem. IDA would be informed on this by end-January 1999. On delayed appointment of auditor by
COCA, the issue is currently under discussion wNithin the 1998 CPPR (held on December 13-15, 1998).
9.     Past Performance.     Despite periodic tariff increases, the Al Mukalla branch has not been in
compliance with the financial covenant. NWSA increased its tariff in late 1995 by 25 percent and in
early 1996 (15 percent) and twice in 1998 (estimated average of 36 percent) but never kept pace with the
regular yearly increase of electricity tariffs, which is a major component of its operating cost (25-30
percent).  From  1996, the Public Electricity Corporation (PEC) has been increasing its tariff in
accordance with the agreement reached with the IMF under the Government's stabilization program,
which aims to reduce the fuel subsidy to PEC by the end of 1998. Accordingly, in 1996, electricity
tariff's were increased by more than 100% and thereafter, another 54% during 1997. NWSA and PEC are
govemed by same corporate law; while PEC has been allowed to increase its tariff regularly and
conitinues to enjoy fuel subsidy, NWSA's tariff increases have not been in line with PEC's tariff
increases. This adversely affected the financial performance of NWSA.
10.    Salaries and wages consists 60 percent of the total operating costs and its sharp escalation in
recent years is a major concem that NWSA needs to address. There are about 90 service connections
scrved by one branch employee. Maintenance is poor due to lack of spare parts and unsatisfactory
management. According to N`/VSA, this has resulted in the unaccounted-for water to increase from 24
pcrcent in 1995 to 34 percent by 1998. However, the mission highlighted that given the age and
delctrioration of the networks, a more realistic figure for the current unaccounted for water would be 50
pCercent.
11.    AccouLnts Receivable.  As of end-1997, the branch's accounts receivable had soared to about
eleven months. Thereafter, for the first ten months of 1998 (end of October 1998), this decreased to
about nine months. This is not acceptable and is in clear violation with the agreed covenants requiring
the accounts receivable to be maintained within a three-month level. During discussions the mission
noted that about 20-50 percent of its total accounts receivable cannot be collected owing to poor service
quality (low water supply) in some areas and consumers simply refuse to pay. In addition, the branch
continues to send bills to unmetered consumers who are yet to receive any water supply. Currently, the



4
branch has initiated actions to improve its collection performance. These include: (i) disconnection of
delinquent consumers, (ii) opening of new collection offices. The mission suggested to NWSA to adopt
a program similar to the one adopted by PEC in offsetting dues of govemment agencies and line
ministries through provision of yearly budget for water consumption. On the whole, a more consolidated
approach to this problem needs to be taken and NWSA agreed to develop a comprehensive action plan to
contain its accounts receivable and improve Its collection performance: the plan would be sent to IDA by
end-February 1999.
12.   In order not to distort the financial performance of the Al Mukalla branch, the mission
recommended that the branch create a special task force to confirm the exact amount of uncollectible
accounts, which may be written off the books. It is advisable that the branch takes immediate action by
January 1999 to enable the branch to budget and plan in a more realistic manner.
13.   In line with PEC's current practice. NWSA can look into the possibility of contracting to private
collectors the outstanding accounts receivable, providing incenitives or commission for any collection
made. The branch management is taking this seriously and cxpects to implement the incentives to
improve the collection performance. It is also anticipated that the computerized billing system, which
now enables the branch to issue monthly bills instead of the bimonthly bills prior to computerization,
would improve collection.
14.    Meters:       The issue of accounts receivable is related to the poor customer management
and, in particular to meters. The 1998 records indicate that the branch has about 35,200 meters, of which
19,880 (56 % are non-operational). If the recorded number of service connections is accurate, it can be
concluded that about 2,500 consumers are without meters, and are charged on a fixed amount per person
in the household. This is one of the major issues that needs to be addressed immediately by the branch to
improve its financial performance. During discussions, the Al-Mukalla branch agreed to address this
issue and inform IDA by end-January 1999 onl steps taken.
15.    Accounts Payable.    As of the end of 1997, total accounts payable was YR. 81.7 million of
which YR.30.4 million was on account of electricity dues. The Al Mukalla branch is unable to settle its
electricity debts because of its poor financial situation. While PEC was included in the program of
offsetting all govemment ministries, agencies, and entities' arrears, NWSA was excluded. During the
1996 CPPR, it was agreed that the Ministry of Finance would settle all govemment arrears, and it was
expected that NWSA would be included in this effort. However, NWSA was excluded from the list, as it
was considered a corporation.
1 6.    Cost Recovery.      The Board of Directors of NWSA implemented tariff increases, effective
July 1, 1998 and again on December 1, 1998 (Annex 6). This brings the weighted average tariff from YR
16.89/m3 in 1997 to YR26.06/m3 in 1998, based on an estimated consumption of 4,959,000 m' for the Al
Mukalla branch. In spite of these increases, the Al Mukalla branch will still be in default of the financial
covenant since tariff increase was implemented late. Based on calculations prepared by the mission with
the branch, they would need about 12 percent additional income to reduce water losses and operating
costs to meet the financial covenant. The breakeven tariff is YR29/m3 compared to the weighted average
tariff of YR26.06/m3 which is computed based on the 1997 tariff for six months, July 1, 1998 tariff for
five months and December 1, 1998 tariff for one month. The non-compliance to the covenant is also
attributed to non-implementation of the tariff increases on July I by the previous Al Mukalla branch
management.
17.   For 1999, Al Mukalla branch is expected to meet its costs of operations, provided there are no
deviations from the assumptions used, as agreed upon (Annex 6). NWSA is expected to increase sales



5
with the Al Mukalla water supply project now in full operation. Based on conservative estimates, the
consumption forecast for 1999 was kept the same as in 1998, which equates to a weighted average tariff
of YR42.54 /m3.
18.   Disbursement. The project is expected to disburse about USS12.0 million equivalent including
the remaining payments to be made to SADE (the contractor) and ECG (the consultant). Currently,
preliminary estimates indicate that a balance of about US$250,000 (equivalent) may remain as unutilized;
once confirmed, this amount wvill have to be cancelled. The project special account needs to be
reconciled and this needs to be done soon. Outstanding amounts in the special account will either be
adjusted against pending withdrawal proceeds or refunided in accord with IDA guidelines.
20.    Compliance with Legal covenants.   See Annex 5
21.    Other issues.       None
F.    ICR Mission and Future Operations Plan
In accordance with IDA guidelines, after completion of each project, an Implementation
Comptetion Report (ICR) is required to be completed. The mission was provided with tbe Borrower's
contribution to the ICR. All necessary information and data for completing the ICR were provided to the
mission. The mission discussed and agreed with MEW and NWSA on the Operation Plan (Annex 8).
List of Annexes:
Annex I      List of people met
Annex 2      Agreements reached
Annex 3      Procurement Status
Annex 4      Disbursement Forecast
Annex S      Covenant Compliance
Annex 6      Financial Statement
Annex 7      Performance Indicators
Annex 8      Operational Plan
ORKiINAL COPY  signed by Dr. Mohamed Al-Saidi, Executive Chairman, National Water and
Sanitation Authority; Mr. Anwar Al-Harazi, Deputy Minister, Ministry of Planning and Development;
and Mr. Somin Mukherji, Operations Officer, World Bank Resident Mission Office, Sana'a, Republic of
Yemen.



Annex I
List of People Met
H.E. Mr. Saleh Obad Al-Khowlani
Governor of Hadramout
H.E. Mr. Anwar Al-Harazi
Deputy Minister
Minister of Planning & Development
Dr. Mohamed Al-Saidi
Director General
National Water and Sanitation Authority
Mr. Mohamed Abu Taleb
Deputy Director General
National Water and Sanitation Authority
Mr. Saleh Al-Kuli
Director Genera] for Projects
National Water and Sanitation Authority
Mr. Hussein M. Al-Ansi
Director of Organizations and Training, NWSA
Mr. Alawi Mehdhar
Project Director in the Western Area
National Water and Sanitation Authority
Mr. Awadh Salem Al-Ganjal
Chief of the NWSA Branch
Mr. Mahfouz Obaid Bagwaigo
l'rojcct Manager



Annex 2
Page I of 2
AGREEMENTS REACHED
NWSA Head Office
1.    NWSA H.O. will prepare the Branch for its future decentralization and will consistently provide
guidance to the branch, allowing them to exercise autonomy in the management of its own resources.
2.    NWSA H.O. will discuss the late submission of 1997 trial balances by the branches to complete
the consolidated financial statements, thereby issue the audit report of 1997 by March 15, 1999. NWSA
will follow-up COCA for the appointment of the auditor to audit the Project and Special accounts of
Tarim Water Supply Project.
3.    NWSA will prepare a recommendation to the MEW to assist them in the settlement of arrears
from government ministries and agencies and to request MOF to provide yearly budget for water
consumption which can be paid directly to NWSA account. NWSA will form a committee to establish the
arrears from the govemment entities which will be included in the recommendation to MEW.
4.     NWSA will assist the Branch in obtaining financing for the purchase of water meters, to measure
the water sold.
5.    NWSA will evaluate the tariff requirement of the Branch, evaluate the service and fixed monthly
charges, and accounts receivables; accordingly, NWSA will draft an action plan for submission to the
Bank; it will eventually implement the recommended actions as necessary. NWSA will inform the Bank
in writing of the action taken, providing the proposed tariff schedule when applicable.
NWSA Al Mukalla Branch - PIU
1. PIU will closely monitor the contractors in charge of drilling the new borehole No. 17 and the
contracted in charge of its connection with existing building to complete the project as scheduled in
December 31, 1998.
2. PIU will finalize the project costs for review by the Bank and for the Implementation Completion
report.
3. PIU will submit the final records on Special Account to the World Bank Resident Mission, Sana'a by
January 15, 1999 (Attention: Mr. Ali Khamis).
5. P:[U will review the draft of the ICR, upon receipt from the Bank and submit its comrnments within 12
days of receipt.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Al Mukalla Branch
]. Branch management will consistently follow-up on its campaign to reduce the accounts receivable
arrears to three months, by implementing the curtailing policy for delinquent consumers. It will also
introduce the incentive system for collection and water reading. It will formally informn the Bank of its
action and the date when action was taken.
2. Branch management will continue and follow-up the training of staff on the use of computer hardware
and software. It will provide a computer and corresponding training to the Financial Manager to enable
them to produce the reports required by the Bank as well as by NWSA management. It will also review
its organization to detenrine the proper placement of the Computer Unit.
3. Branch wil send a formal request to the NWSA H.O. to assist them in obtaining funds for the
purchase of meters and repairs of non-working meters in order exactly know the water old.
4. Branch will prepare its recommendation to the NWSA H.O. on the actions required to enable them to
meet its operating costs.
Bank
1. The Bank will provide Parts A and B of thie draft ICR to NWSA H.O. and Branch for review prior to
fonral issuance of the report.
2. The Bank will follow up on NWSA action plan to enable the branch to generate sufficient income to
cover its operating costs.



Annex 3
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT Cr. 1994-YEM
Procurement Status
Reporting Month   December 1998
Tender                                                                       Date                                            Contract              Completion Date         Remarks
Description           Procure-    Bid Doc     IDA No     Prequall-    Bid      Bid      Bid Eval.   IDAs      Contract  Contract Contractor/  Original  Revised   Actual
ment      sent to   Objection to  fication    Invi-    Open-    Recom.        No        Award       in    Consultant
Method       IDA       Bid Doc                 tation    Ing      to IDA    Objection    Date   millions       Name
1                   2           3           4           5         6         7         8           9         10         11         12          13        14       16        16
A. Consuiting Service
1. Supervision of consultants fo
Contracts 1 & 2                  SL                                          18/03/89                                  31/10/89    0 48     EGG-Egypt  31/07/92             Apr. '93
2. Amendment for Supervision
of Consultants for Contract 3A &
3B                               SL                                          17/02/93                                  Aug '95    0 659    EGG-Egypt   Dec'98               Dec.'98
B. Study
1. Improving of Operational
effects of AMWSS                 SL                                              1991                                   1/10/91    0 366    EGG-Egypt
Emst & Young
2. Computer & Financial Study    SL                                                                                                0 048       UK        Oct95              Mar.'93
3. Training                      SL                                                                                                0.043
C. Construction Works -
Supply
1. Supply of Water Well Casing                                                                                                               Dander-
& Screen (Contract 1)           ICB                              Jun'90     14/07/90   8/9/90    26/11/90    11/12/90   25/03/90    0 379    Denmark   26/09/91             26/09/91
2. Drilling and Testing of the
Wells An Naga Ah (Contract 2)   ICB                              Jun'90     14/07/90   8/9/90    26/11/90    11/12/90   21/11/91    1 064   CESC-China  17/09/92            20/02/93
3. Const. of Water Prod. Works
(Contract 3)                    1CB                              Jun'90     Mar93    15/06/93                           Jan.'95    8 131   SADE-France  29/08/98            29/08/98
Kent Meter
4. Water Meters                                                                                                                    0.076      LTd. UK
Total Amount of Contracts USS 11.671 million



Annex 4
YEMEN
Al Mukalla Watier Supply Project (Cr. 1944-YEM)
Disbursement Forecast
Fical Year              Quarter Ending         Cumulative Disbursement   Cumulative Disbursement
&                                                 as Per SAR             Actual and Forecast
Quarter Ending                                             USSM                        USSM
1988                      lstQrt.                                                 0.00
2ndQrt.                                                 0.00
3rdQrt.                                                 0.00
4thQrt.                                                 0.00
1989                      I stQrt.                                                0.00
2ndQrt.                                                 0.00
3rdQrt.                     0.15                        0.00
4thQrt                      0.30                        0.00
1990                      I stQrt.                    0. 5                        0.00
2ndQrt.                      1.20                       0.00
3rdQrt.                      1.44                       0.55
4thQrt                      1.68                        0.55
1991                      I stQrt.                     1.92                       0.55
2ndQrt.                      2.16                       0.63
3rdQrt.                     2..88                       0.64
________________________              4thQrt                      3.60                       0.64
1992                      I stQrt.                    4.08                        0.70
2ndQrt.                     4.56                        1.02
3rdQrt.                     5.28                        1.18
4thQrt                      6.00                        1.68
1993                      I stQrt.                    6.48                        1.85
2ndQrt.                     6.96                        2.03
3rdQrt.                     7.44                        2.03
4thQrt                      7.92                        2.22
1994                      lstQrt.                     8.16                        2.22
2ndQrt.                     8.40                        2.23
3rdQrt.                     8.88                        2.34
4thQrt                      9.36                        2.39
1995                      I stQrt.                    9.60                        2.38
2ndQrt.                     9.84                        2.65
3rdQrt.                     10.32                       2.66
4thQrt                      10.80                      2.66
1996                      IstQrt.                     11.04                       2.66
2ndQrt.                     11.28                       4.24
3rdQrt.                     i 1.52                      4.24
4thQrt   _                  11.76                      4.28
1997                      IstQrt.                     11.88                       4.28
2ndQrt.                     12.00                       4.41
3rdQrt.                     0.00                        4.77
4thQrt                      0.00                       5.84
1998                      lstQrt.                     0.00                        7.00
2ndQrt.                     0.00                        8.27
3rdQrt.                     0.00                        8.43
4thQrt                      0.00                       8.87
1999                      IstQrL                      0.00                        8.95
2ndQrt                      0.00                        9.91
3rdQrt                      0.00                       11.75
4thQrt                      0.00                       11.75



ANNEX 5
YEMEN
Al Mukalla Water Supply Project
(Cr. 1944 -YEM)
Covenant Compliancc
Agreement          Section       Covenant   Status   Original   Revised                        Description of Covenant                                  Comments
T ype                 Fulfill      Fulfill
)Date       Date
Credit          4.0 1(b)(i)       I           C                                Borrower to have records and accounts audited each
4.01 (b)(ii)      I                                            fiscal year for all expenditurcs madc on the basis of
statement of expcnditures (SOE) and special account hy
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and furnish thc
audit report nine months after the end of caeh fiscal year
along with a separate opinion by the auditors.
Project         4.01(b)(ii)       01          NC       6/15/1992               NWSA shall furnish to IDA  (a) six months aftcr thc cnd   The problem faced by NWSA is two
of each year, its unaudited financial statements and those   fold:(i) late appointment of auditor, and
of the Al-Mukalla Branch for such year; and (b) nie    (n) delays in consolidation of accounts
months after the cnd of each year, audit report and     due to late submission of trial balances
audited financial statements of its accounts and those of   from branches
Al-Mukalla Branch.
Project          4.02(a)          02          NC                               NWSA shall maintain a debt service coverage of not Iess
_______________   ___________   _________                       ~~~~~~than     1.2.                                     _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Project          4.03 (a)         02          NC                               Al-Mukalla Branch shall produce for each of Its FY total   Compliance expected in 1999
revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of (I) its
total operating expenses;
Project          4.03(b)          02          NC                               Before November 30 of each year, NWSA shall, on the
basis of realistic forecasts and satisfactory to IDA,
review the adequacy of its rcvenues from operations to
meet the requirements set forth in section 4.03(a) above,
in respect of such year and the next following FY, and
shall fumish to IDA the results of such review.
Project           2.06(i)         09           C                               Progress reports to be received within 6 monts after end
__________                           of each calendar year.



National Water And Sanitation Authority                                                                                    ANNEX 6
Branch: Al-Mukkala                                                                                                         page lof 6
Balance Sheets 1993 - 1997
ACTUI.AL                             Esti,,,ated
ASSETS                            1993           1994          199'            1996           1997
DEPRECIATABLE ASSETS
- WATER SYSTEM ASSETS                                   82.S47         S              S'.9S4         57.003         109.431
- SEWERAGE SYSTEM ASSETS                                                    0              (!             0              0
- STRUCTUREL BLILDINGS                                       0              0              0              0              0
- EQUIPMENTS                                               323            355            456            477            482
VEHICLES                                                4,342          4.349          3.065          2,765          2.765
FLURNITU RE                                             1,106          1.44S          1,6'1)         2,493          2,610
SUB-TOTAL                                                88,618         89,795         91,204         92,738        115,288
-AL( MlNL LA IOU DEPRE('IAI'ION                         -37.145       -37,'44        -37.4oc,       -37,2 13        43.337
NET DEPRECIABLE ASSET-S                                  51,473         52,051         53,738         55,525         71,951
-LAND                                                        0              0 _                           0             44
- WORKS IN PROGRESS                                     64.253         6',429        1 S3.311)         1. 167         1.144
- OTHER ASSET'S                                                             0              o              0              0
C^'RRENT ASSETS
- ACCOUNT RECEIVABLE) CUSTOMERS)                         13,901        25,264         36,456         55.384         71,802
01THER ACC'OL'NT RECEIVABLE                             7.546          9.632          3,079          17,580        27,748
- LESS- PROVISION FOR DOUTBFUL DEBTS.                    -417            -717          -S I           -937          -2,687
SU B-TOTAL                                               21,030         34,179         48,748         72,027         96,863
.IATERIALS AND SL PPLIES IN STORES                        5,457          5.682          5,461         18.558         11,083
ADV. PAYMENT (CONTRACTORS, SIIPPLIERS)                       91             9 1          68( 1.371                   1,521
STAFF LOANS                                                 232            237            478            145            126
O'HER ACC. RECEIVABLE.                                      378            450          1,402          1,322           1,246
CASH IN BANK &, ONHAND                                    6.257          8,815         25,779         71,361         74,091
BRANCH ACCOUNT                                                0              0              0              0              0
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                     33,445         49,454         82,548        164,784        184,930
TOTAL ASSETS                                            149,171        170,934        289,941        221,476        258,069
LIABILITIES                         1193           1994           1995           1996           1997
CAI'IT- LIZAr'ION
-GOVERNMEN1I D)IRCT CONFRIBL ION                       93,182         96.5 75        96,966        105,019         109,022
- GOVERNMENT C'ONT RIIU TION FRO\M LO\NK                     0              0              0              0              0
- BRANCH CAPITAL                                         10.267         16.669        17.867          18.885        22,850
- CUSTOMER PAYMENTS FOR INST Al l TION                   3,041          3.457          8.502         10,030          12,028
-OTHER RESERVFS                                            S6S            2'S            6 17           617            617
- RETAINED EARNING                                      I6,1           -3S,57S       -21.SIS        -28,615         -57,541
TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                                     70,547         78,410        102,134        105,936         86,976
LOANS
- LONG TERM LOANS (PRINCIPAL)                           53 976         5805 7        130.49S         25,498         25,498
- LONG TERM LOANS (ACCRL'ED INTEREST)                    5,934          9.269         18.370         10,928          10,928
TOTAL LOANS                                              59,910         67,326        148,868         36,426         36,426
- PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEES                                    0              0              0              0              0
-OTHER PROVISIONS                                            0            660            660          5,965          I 1,192
- Cl ST OIER DEIPOSITS                                   .0,286             0              0              0              0
-CONSTRUCTORS RETENTION MONEY                              590          11.354        14,609         17,896         25,122
CURRENT LIABILITIES
- OTHER DEPOSITS                                             0            646              0              0              0
- ACCOUNT PAYABLE                                        5,5 1 3        11,699        21,359         46,199         81,733
- OTHER CREDITORS                                            0              0              0              0              0
- HEAD OFFICE ACCOUNT                                    2,325            839          2,31 1        9,054          16,620
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                                 5,513         12,345         21,359         46,199         81,733
TOTAL CAPITALIZATION & LIABILITIES                      1:49,171       170,934        289,941        221,476        258,069



ANNEX 6
page 2 of 6
National Water And Sanitation Authority
Brancl:A.41  lukalla
Incomne Statements 1993-1997
ACTUAL                               Estitmated
Description                       1993            1994          1995           1996           1997
Revenues:
Water Sales                                             30,154          36,257        47,193         76,356         79,385
Sew erage Serv ices                                          0              0              0              0              0
Misc. Incomile                                           18,949         16,373        43,364         29,270         27,343
Total Reve,iues                        49,103         52,630         90,557        105,626        106,728
Qpcrating a,zd A.m.. Eape
Saiaries, NVages and Allos ances                        37,626          40,411        30,696         65,136         75,700
Flectricitv                                              3,899          4,634         11,168         25,712         30,471
Fuel and Oil                                               580            999          2,149          3,733          3,643
Chemicals                                                    0              15             0             85              0
Nlainitenanice anid Spare Parts                           2,085          3,502         5,684          7,382          9,967
General andl overbead expeniditiures                       963           1,879        20,735          2,031          1,570
Total A!. & 0. expenditures.                  45,153         51,440        70,432        104,079        121,351
Income before Prov. and Depr.                  3,950           1,190        20,125          1,547        -14,623
Provision for Doubtful Debts                               250            300            100            120          1,750
Depreciation                                             4,597            599            969          6,348         11,353
Inicome before interest                     -897            291         19,056         4,921         -27,726
Interest                                                 3,182           1,908         2,296          1,876          1,200
NVer I ncome Profit/Loss                   4,079          -1,617         16,760         -6,797        -28,926



ANNEX 6
page 3 of 6
National Water And Sanitation Authority
Branch: Al-MAkkala
Cash Flow Staternetits 1993 - 1997
ACTt AL                              Estimated
SOURCES                           1993            1994          1995           1996           1997
Net profit before interest                        __       =              291         19,056         -4,921        -27,726
Add back depreciation                                                     599            969          6,348         11,353
Provision for doubtful account                                        300            100            120           1,750
Total Net Profit before Interest                                         1,190        20,125          1,547         -14,623
Less Interest                                                           -1,908        -2,296         -1,876         -1,200
Adjustnient in R/E                                                       -150         -1,247         -6,601       -153,411
Total Cash Generated                                                      -868        16,582         -6,930       -169,234
Borrowsings                                    r              X
Capital contributions                                                    9,795         1,589          9,071          7,968
Customer payments for installation                                        416          5,045          1,528           1,998
Loan repayments                                                          7,416        81,542       -112,442              0
Movements in other reserves and provisions                                 79            330          5,305          5,227
Branch account                                                              0              0              0              0
Customer deposits                                                      -10,286             0              0              0
Accounts payable                                                         6,186         9,660         24,840         35,534
Contractors retentions                                  _               10,764         3,255          3,287          7,226
Other credit accounits                                                    646           -646              0              0
Head office                                                             -1,486         1,472          6,743          7,566
Total                                               _                   23,530       102,247        -61,668         65,519
APPLICATION
Capital expenditures                                    _               -6,353       -85,635        150,954    -22,571
Adjustment                                                                        _
Interest payments                                                           0              0              0              0
Movement in working capital - stocks
-accounts receivables                                -13,521       -15,621         -23,319        -26,510
Other assets                                                                0              0              0              0
Staff loans                                                                 -5          -241            333             19
Advance payments                                                            0           -589          -691            -150
XMlaterials and supplies                                                 -225            221        -13,097          7,475
Total                                                                 -20,104       -101,865        114,180        41,737
Net Increase/Decrease in Cash                                            2,558        16,964         45,582       -145,452
Opening Cash balance                                       =            6,257          8,815         25,7791        71,361
Closing Cash balance                                                     8,815        25,779         71,361        -74,091



ANNEX 6
page 4 of 6
_NATIONAL WATER & SANITATION AUTHORITY
__        __ I AlMukalla_Branch__
Tariff Increase Analysis
(all values in YR 000 unless osherwise nored)
1998
Case A        Case B         Case C        Case D         Case E         Case F
Water Connections_                               37700          37700         37700         37700          37700           37700
Sewerage Connections                  _ _                                        -_ 0  0    =    0              0               0
Water Sales ('000 mn3)                            4,950         4,950          4,944         4,944          4,944           4,944
Expected Total Revenues as projected by
NWSA                                            128,992       128,992        128,992       116,093       103,194          141,891
Expenses to be covered:
a) Operating Expenses                           149,110       142,231       137,660        142,231       142,231         142,231
b) lnterest on Loans                                  0             0              0             0             0                0
c) Depreciation                                  12,488        12,488         12,488        12,488         12,488          12,488
d) Increasel(Decrease) in Working Capital
(less Cash)                                      -16000        -16000         -16000        -16000        -16000           -16000
Total Revenue Required for covenant
compliance                                      145,598       138,719        134,148       138,719       138,719          138,719
Deficit to be covered                           -16,606        -9,727         -5,156       -22,626        -35,525           3,172
Additional annual revenue increases
required for covenant compliance                  -13%            -8%           4%           -19%           -34%              2%
Average Breakeven Tariff                       29             28            27             28            28             28
Service Fee(SF) - 10%                            12899          12899         12899          11609         10319           14189
Total Revenues including      service fee       141891         141891        141891        127702         113513          156080
Total Revenue Required for covenant
compliance            (includes SF)               -12%            -7%O          -4%          -18%           -31%1             2%
Assumptions:
1. 1997 water consumption to increase by 3% in 1998.
2. Tariff increase approved by the Board of Directors and implemented effective July 1, 1998 and Dec. 1, 1998.
3. Monthly service fee of IO%, based on water bills.
4. Tariff is based on revised financial covenant ibreak-even).
5. Sensitivity Analysis:
% Increases
Case A         Case a        Case C        Case D         Case E         Case F
Revenues:                                               Same as the base case.            10%           -20%            10%
Service Fees
Operating Expensesf 21_____                                            __            __  _
Salaries and Wages                          0.10                                        0.10           0.10           0.10
Maintenance and Spare parts                  0.40                                       040040_    _                  0.40
Electricity                                  0.50           0.30          0.15           0.30          0.30           0.30
Miscellaneous Expense                        0.50            _                           0.50          0.50           0.50
Revenues are based on 1997 consumption which is estimated to increase by 3%.      I                            __l_j
2D Operating Expenses are based on 1997 estimates.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
NATIONAL WATER AND SANITATION AUTHORITY
AL MUKALLA BRANCH
AL MUKALLA BRANCH -Weighted Average Tariff 1999
Dec-99              Current       Revenue
Consumption             Tariff        Tariff x
V.           m3          YR/m3       Consumption
A. Domestic
0 -10                           0 22            925,760       I5           13,886,400
11-20                           0 5             631,200      30            18,936,000
21 - 30                          0 8            757,440       50           37,872,000
>31                               0 45          1,893.600      60           113,616,000
1 00         4 208,000                   184,310.400
WAT                   0.65         4208000                 43.80
B. Commercial                     1 00            198,000      60            11,880,000
WA T                  0.04           198.000               60 00
C. Gov't,Schools,
Hospitals, Mosques
0 -10                           0 46            250,240       15            3,753,600
11-20                            0 20           108,800       15             1,632,000
21 - 30                          0. 35            27,200      40             1,088,000
>31                             0_29            157,760      50             7,888,000
1 00           544,000                    14,361,600
WA T                  0.11            544000               26 40
4,950,000
Total                             1 00         4,950,000                   210,552,000
Weighted tariff (YR)                       YRJm3                       42.54
Weighted tariff USS
(1US$=135YR)                               US$ cents                   0.32
Weighted tariff USS
(1USS=1 30.00 YR)                          USS cents                   0.33
% Increase in tariff                            63%      based onl 998 WAAT
YR increase in tariff                          16.48     based on 1998 WAT



ANNEX 6
NATIONAL WATER AND SANITATION AUTHORIT-Y                                                                          Page 6 of 6
AL MIJKALLA BRANH- Weighted AeaeTariff 1998
Jan-junelR98   Current    Revenue                                     Jul-98         Board      Reeue                                     Oec-98         Current     Revenue
-     ANCH  ~~~onumtin              Tarif  Trif    fxConsumption                                        Tariff     Tariffx                               Consumption        Taflff      Tarit 
A. Domestic                                                         A. Domest,c                                                         ADmsi
0.-20                   0 28   1.178,240    7           4,123 840!  0 -10                072         925,760    15)          5.78b60(i00                       0 22     925.760'   15            1,157,200
21-40                   0 16     673,2801  15           5,049. 000  11 - 20                15 [      621.200    15           3945)0001  11-20                  0 15     631,200      30          1.578.000
41 .90                   0 33    1.388,640    20        13886.400  21 -30                  08         7657.4401  25          7,b0.OuG  21 -30                   0 10     75.7.440,   50           3.150,000
61-60                    0 21     883.680    30         13,255.200  131                   05         1.893,600.   40  '     31.560 000 1.31                     045         . 83,0   60           9.468,000
a-90              0~~~~~02  84,160    40          1,8320                            0        4.Z09 0001  5      I    419   000                           1      4,2080000                 15,359.200
-.              ~~~~~1 00   4,208,000          3 7998 240
WAT              .5 2.0,0                 11006                   WAT            0985       1,753 333~        20 05                     WAT            095      350,66 7            43 80
,B  Comemerial           1 00     198,000'    60             900,000
B. Commercial             1 00     198,000    50          4 950,OOOIB  Comnmercial         I 00        196.000.   50          4,125,000    ~     WAT             0 04      16'.500    ~      60 00
Cov't.Sclroots.
WAT             0.04      99,000          500                     WAT            0 04         92 500(         sO 01                      M0s4u"'s
C. Gov't,Schools,                                                   CG"tchls
Hospitals, Mosques                                                  Hfospitals, Mosques                                                   0 -10                  0 46                  5,4  5       312.800
--                                                                                      ~~~~~          ~        ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11-20  0 20  100.000:   15  136,001)
0 -40                   0 46     204.930    25          2,561.b25  0-10                  046          250,240    1 5         1.564 011), 21 - 30               005        27,200:    40             90,667
41 -80                  0 20     129.195    35,         2.260,913  11-20                 0 20         108 800    15f          660001  1.O 31                   0 29      157,7601   50             657,333
>80                     0 25     111.375    50          2,784,375  21-30                 0 05          27 200i  40            453'333                          1 00 I 544.001)                    1,106,800
100    445.500                7.606 913  >31                   0 29         157,7601  50           3.286 667
WA r            0.09     222750           34 15                                  1 00        544,00                  5 994.000          WA r           0.11       453331            26 40
A?     0.11        226,667,         26 40                                            49000
o. ConstructIons                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~         ~ ~~~~4.950 OOOj  Total  1 00  412.5001  17,546,000
Buildings                                                           Total                    1 00    2,062,500               59 20000 IU
0-40                    0 55      54.175       25        677,188                                                                      Wvegigted tariff (YRI         YR1m3                  42 54
WVeighted trf
41 -80                  0 25      24.625       35         430.938                                                                     11US$, 1US$1.135YR)            US$ cents             0,32
I                  W~~~~~Veighted tariff US$
.80                     0 20      10,700       50         492,500 Weighted tariff (YR)         YRIm3                  .28 705         (I0SS=1i30.00 YR)              US$ cents              0.33
-           ~~~~Weighted tariff
1 00     98,500                 1.600,625 1US$; I1US$-135 YR)          05$ cents              021                                           % 1'.icease in tadift       102%
Weighted tariff US$;
WAT             0.02       49250          3250            I1USS=~13iT00 YRI            US$ cents              0.22                                           YR increase In tariff       43.32
4,950.000
Total                    1 00   2.475,000               52,155,778, Overall
Adjusted Revenue                 4,950,000              128.901,778
Weighted tariff (YR)           Y4irnQ               2i,07          Weighted tartff (YR)                                 26,06
Weighted tariff                                                    Weighted tariff US$;
(US$; IUS$Si135YR)             US$ cents            0.16           J1IUS$S135 YR)                                       0.19
WeIghtedwtriff UJSt;--                         
I(1USSa130.00 YR)              JUSS cents          10.16                                                               INOTE.         WAT- Weighted Average Tar/iff   _______________



ANNEX 7
National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) - AL MUKALLA BRANCH
Operating Indicators
1992          1993          1994           1995          1996           1997           1998              1999
Average Tariff YRIm3                                              7.09          9.96          10.80          16.89         16,52           26.06              42.54
No. of Employees                                    357           357           358            355            346            355             396               404
No. of Service Connections                      ,7,556         29,360         30,334        31,046         33,707         34,449          37,700            38,077
No. of Connections/Employee                          77            82             85             90            95             87              93                94
Water Sales in YR                                           30,154,000    36,257,000     47,193,000    76,356,000     79,385,000     128,991,778       210,552,000
Water Sold m3/year                            4,057,836      4,250,429     3,641,301      4,370,847     4,520,741      4,806,122       4,950,000          4,950,000
Water Produced m'lyear                        5,336,549      6,034,936     5,500,519      5,782,614     6,711,036      7,253,280       7,500,000         7,500,000
Unaccounted for water                              24%            30%           34%            24%           33%            34%             34%                34%
NOTE: The water sold is based on estimates (number of persons in a household) because most meters are not working. Based on experience gathered
from similar network conditions in other projects in other countries, the unaccounted for would be higher than 50 percent.



ANNEX 8
Al-Mukalla Water Supply Project
Operation Plan
Operational Plan                                           Strategy                                  Perforrmance Indicator                      'I'imi,ig
The operation of thc water distribution network   NWSA  to recruit and individual consultant (manager of a  Action plan available                  Start February 1, 1999
is unsatisfactory because of: (i) old corroded   competent water and sewerage utility) to prepare an action plan,                                  End March 31, 1999
pipclines; (ii) lack of maintenance; and (iii) bad  to improve the operational efficiency of the Al-Mukalla NWSA
customer management                            branch, including the water distribution network, imiaking use of
the current staff and equipment. The consultani will identify
also recruitment and training needs, as weli additional
equipment.
A follow-up project (the 2nd Al-Mukalla Water  NWSA  to prepare Temis of Reference (TOR) and based   Status of project prepaiation                 -'TOR: February 1999
Supply and Sanitation Project) is required to  thereon, recruit Consulting Engineering Company who will                                            -13idding     fut     selecting
address the following issues: (i) rehabilitation   prepare feasibility study, final design & bidding documents for                                 Consulting         Engineering
and expansion of the water distribution network,  the follow-up projcct.                                                                           Company from. March to May
including house connections and meters; (h)                                                                                                         1999
achicve a satisfactory customer management, (i i i)                                                                                                -Award: June 1999
sanitation and other issues.                                                                                                                       -Feasiblility: April 2000
-FInal   design   &   bidding
document February 20(01
-Appraisal: May 2001
Funds are needed for impleimenting the follow-up   NWSA to submit IDA above mentioned studics and agree on   Tiiiing and achicvemlcilt of different  Sec above
project.                                       appraisal /negotiation dates                                  phases of study  (fcasibility, final,
bidding document) Appraisal date of
follow-up proTject



Implementation Completion Report                           25
ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUJKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NATIONAL WATER AND SANITATION
AUTHORITY
AL - MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Implementation Unit
YPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
EDA  Credit  1944 - YEM
AFT.SD Loan  220188
November, 1998



Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary ............     .                                   _  i - nr
Part I: Pr*ject Implementation Assessment
A. Backgromd                                   ..I
B. Project Objectives..                                                       1
C.   Project Components..1
D.   Achicvement of Project objectives.2
E.   1mpla;entation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project   . . .2
F.   Project Sustainability.4
G. Bank Prformance ......-.4
H.   BorrowerPerformance..............4,...
L Assessment of Outcome                             ..4
J.  Future Operation.5
K Key Lessons Learned..                                                        8
Part TIl: Statistical Tables
-         Table 1: Project Implementation
-         Table 2: Project Costs
-         Table 3: Project Financial Plan
-         Table 4: Summary ofAssessments
-         Table 5: Project Time Table
-         Table 6A: Quarterly Credit Disbursement Schedule
-         Table 6B: Annual Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Rstimate and Actual
-         Table 6C: Disbursement Status of Project as of November, 1998
-         Table 7: Allocation of Credit Procceds
-         Table 8: Procurement Status Report
M.MI.. W r Supply _i.J.v= bm



J-AL;rA3L.
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in respect of "AI-Mukalla Water
Supply Project - first stage" in the Republic of Yemen, for which credit 1944 YEM in the
amount of SDR 8.7 million (USS 12.0 rnmllion equivalent) was agreed on October 17.1988
and declared effective on June 9, 1989.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31,1998, after it was ecxtended twice from its
original closing date of December 31,1995, due to the difficulties and unforseen
cracumstances (e.g the economical/political crisis of 1994 in Yemen and Gulf crisis in
1990), the credit was fully disbursed .
3.    Paralle financing for the project was provided by Arab Fund for Econormic & Social
Development (AFBSD), loan No. 220/88 in the amount of KD 2.85 million or USS 9.7
milion equivalent and Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (R7AED) loan No.
354 in the amount of KD 2.85 milion or USS 9.7 million equivalent. The disbursement
from AFSED loan reached USS 7.52 million and the disbursement from KFAED loan
reached USS 40,536 then the loan was cancelled after the Gulf cisis in 1990. ln addition to
the Govermment contribution of USS 4.5 million.
4.    Preparation of this ICR started after the IDA's supernsion mnission visit to the project in
August 1998 by Messrs. L. Rasmusson, Mr. A Mcphail and Ms. J. Masanque.
AiMuD Waer 5upy njatN,b *1S



Ev,aluation Summary
Introducfion.
1. In th early 1970s, Al-Mukalla. was already facing serious water supply shortages, the
sector study carried out by IDA in 1973 had recommended inter alia the preparation of
feasibility studies to rehabilitate the water supply system and to increase water production
for AI-MukaLUa. However, it was not until 1978 that, with the approval of IDA Credit S-
21-YDF, these studies began
2. The feasibility studies conclude that only some relatively minor improvements to the
existing distnbution system were required, but that the available water resources should be
increased to meet the current and projected demand . Immediate work to improve
infiltration in the wadies near the town was recommended to increase supply . It was
decided, however, to procee>d first with a rehabilitation, project which include
inprovements to the eisting bc:refield and furher investigation of infiltration works. This
deson was based partly on concerns regarding the feasibility and cost of works to
increase infiltration but also on the prevailng sanitary situation which required substantial
improvement before significantly increasing water supply.
3. The rhabiltaon project financed by IDA under credit  l59-YDR, included sengthng
and extension of the distnibution system, improvement and rehabltation of the exsting
water resource, a health educatioa components, water resource studies including feasibility
studies of the proposed infiltion works and design of the proposed project . However, it
proved impossible to increase the capacity of the existing borefield to the extent
ex;ected.ln addition, it was included that increasing the amount of infiltration into the
exsting aquifers was not viable. Additional studies were therefore undertken to identify
other suitable ground water mreo:urces. These sudies, which identified an adequate of
supply, were completed in April 1.987.
4. The water resource investigations above include the construction and testing of 29
borcholes over a wide a,  covering a} potential aquifers from Wadi Khirba, 12 km west
of Al-Mukalla to the Ghafl Bavzir area, 50km to the east . Reconnaissance further to the
west indicated on the potential aquifers . A resource adequate proven at an Naga'ah about
50 km east of Al-Mukala . This thorough investigation of water resources was underaLkn
in view of the xperience under the first Aden Water supply project.
S. The main objectives of the project are to increase water production for AJ-Mukala to the
level required to meet effecdve demand to the year 2002, but due to the delay of startng
the implementation, the projec now will cover the demand until the year 2010, and to
stwigthen and expand the adstirng prmary and secondary dribion systems . The other
objetves are to enhance the operational and management capacity of NWSA, reduce
unaccounted for water increase productiity and improve construction supervision and
system  management . During implementation, the project was restuctured / retroftted and
the components listed below CAi, iv and v) wer deleted.
_ - S ! * _ __ _ _~~~~~~~~~~
Aj-UM W=  ?N s                                  1                              14ymh 1



The major elements of the project consist of the following components:
i)    drilling and equipping of a borefeld at An Naga'ab together with associated works;
L)    a transmission pipeline of about 50 Km from the borefield to AI-Mukalla;
Ei)    * re-quipping and upgradng of the Wadi Buwaysh borefield;
i)      improvement and strengtheaing of pimary and secondary water distnbution
networks;
v)    0 supply of water meten, tools and operaticraa and office equipment;
vi)   construction and rehabilitation of reservoirs to meet dafly peak demand ; and
vii)  provision of tecnnical assistance to NWSA includirg detection and control of water
losses, system znalysis and operation, construction supervision. fiancial performance,
selection and development of a computerize:6 accounting systcm and training.
Note *e
ltems (iii), (iv) and (v) were deleted according to Amendment to the Credit
Agreement issued on September 8, 1997. Technical assistance for detection and
control of water losses, improve stem analysis and operation was stopped in April 2,
1993 by NWSA after consulting IDA due to three reasons:
a) Lack of fund to execute the main contracts 3A & 3B afla the Gulf Crsis
b) no updated maps are available to continue the activities taking into consideran
that producing new maps wi increase the cost of the contract amount and;
c) the cost of contract 3B was over est ed.
6. The original project cost was estimated USS 34.7 million of which USS 12.0 millIon
financed by 1DA, US S 9.7 million by KFAED, UISS 9.7 million by AFESD, and USS 3.3
mil1ion by Governmmet but after the Gulf cnisis in 1990, Kuwait loan was cancelled and the
Goverment contnbution was increased to about USS 4.5 million .
7.  a) The Project Preparation took place by the Borrower, with assistance from   Astaff.
The stff appraisal report was issued on June 22, 1988 . The Credit Agreement was signed
on October 17, 1988 and became effective on June 9, 1989 . The original closing date was
set forDecember31, 1995 and it was extended to December31, 1998 .
b) Project lmplenentation started after the effectiveness of IDA credit, AFESD and.
KFAED on June 9, 1989, May 14, 1989 and July 22, 1989 respectively.
lmolementation E2Derienee and Results.
8. An agreement signed between NWSA (formerly was PWC) and ECG for Construction
Supervision Services on Jul, 1989.
M-MakaZ Wea inp Puj                                                           L.mh  Z



Tle project was divided into three main contracts
Contract 1: Supply and Delivery of Water Well Casings and Screens
Contract 2 Drilling and Testing of Boreholes.
Contract 3 divided into two subcontracts.
3A - Pipelines
3B - Construction
Contracts 1, 2 and 3B are financed by )DA, while contract 3A is financed by Arab Fund.
9. Project implementation took sigrificantly more time than expected and the closing date
had to be extended by over three years . The delay caused by two factors:
(a)   The  Gulf crisis in 1990 which caused restructured of the project due to
cancellation of KFAED loan.
(b) The civil war which interrupted implementation for several months in 1994.
1O.The project succeeded in achieving its objectives especially in increasing water production
for AI-Mukaulla to the level required to meet effective demand to the year 2010.
The financial and computerized billing accounting system is improved and by the end of
December 1998 billing will be processed by the computer.
The tariff increased in Jull 998,therefore, the revenues of Al-Mukalla branch will be
suffcient to cover its expenses (other than depreciation, non-cash charges and interest)
especialy after comissioning of the project on August 29, 1998.
11.The actual costs of the project are estimated to have reached the equivalent of USS 24.06
million, of which USS.19.56 million were foreign costs. IDA financed SO percent of the
project costs. Another USS 7.52 mnillion were supplied by Arab Fund while the remaining
gap (TUSS 4.SOmillion) was financed by the Government.
12.The ichievernent of project objectives was facilitated by:
(a) an adequate installation set up for the implementation of a project involving several
ministries;
(b) implementation unit was operting effectively;
(c) high level political support for the project, specially from Hadramout's Governor;
(d) and intensive supervision by IDA staff through efficient coordination among
secoral divisions concerned .
13.The overall performance of MDA and the Borrowe, are rated satisfactory . Most credit
convenants have been complied %ith. Audit reports were submited to IDA and were
found to be of acceptable quality .
Summar' of Findings and Kev Lessons Learned.
14.The p oject succeeded to increase water production to meet the demand for Al-Mual
city and surrounding areas overall the outcome of this project is judged to be satisfactory.
15.AMW SP has been implemented successfully and achieved its objectives and thus provided
usefiu lessons during its implementation period as follows:
I)  To avoid the delay in implemeiation of a project, a decision for any issue should be
taken as soon as possible.
Ak.MaW"uWrNW Sa  ?$                             a



PART 1. PROJECT IMPL-ENTATI ON
ASSESSMENT



A. Background.
AJ-Mukalia, the fastest growing city in Yemen is located on the Arabian Sea coast about
600 Km from the capital Sana'a and about 620 Kmn from Aden.
AI-Mukahla was mainly fishing village ivith an estimated population of 6,000 . During the nect
sixty years it developed as an administrative and distribution center for the area. By the time
of the South Yemen's independence in 1967, Al-Mukalla becam  the cavia1Lnd major port for
the Govemnorate of Hadramout .
2.    The city and its environs have expanded rapidly in recent years through natural population
grwth and through migration from other parts of Yemen . The 1998 population is estimated
at 145,000 and this is expected to continue to grow rabidly over the next few year. The city
has now expanded greatly outside its original core and extensive building development is
taking place along the main coastal highways to the west of the city and to the east towards
the airport . Many of these new developments do not have access to piped water, sewerage or
electricity supplies .
3.    Al-Mukalla city and surrounding areas receive their water supplies from three wter
sources, Wadi Buwaysh, Fuwa and Audaiba weilfields . The totl yield of the three sources is
1001/sec . The rate of development and population growth has far exceeded the ability of the
sources and the water supply network .
Many areas of the city have intermittent or no supplies, while some areas are supplied by
tanker or communal standpipes . With thL completion of the new water supply project in Sept
1993 the availability of water increased substantially and 300 /sec may flow to the city to
meet the demand of Al-Mukalla city and surrounding areas.
B. Project obiectives.
The main objectives of the project are to increase water production for A}-Mukala to the level
required to meet effective demand to the year 2002, but due to the delay of starting the
impiementation, the project now will cover the demand until the year 2010, and to strengthen and
expand the existing primary and secondary distnbution systems . The other objectives are to
erance the opertional and management capacity of NWSA, reduce unaccounted for water
increas  productvity and improve construction supervsion and system management . During
implemertation, the projec was restructured / retroftted and the components listed below (iii, iv
and v) were deleted.
C. Proiect Commonents.
The major elements of the project consist of the following components:
1)    driling and equipping of a borefield at An Naga'ah together with associated works;
L)    a transmission pipeline of about 50 Km from the borefield to AI-Mukalla
ail)    * pmre-qpping and upgrmding of the Vadi Buwaysh borefleld;
iv)    * improvement and strengthening of primary and secondary water distnbution networks;
AJM.abh Waaf UP P"T?rJW                        1                             4YWm~



v)    * supply of water meters, tools and operational and office equipment;
vi)   construction and rehabilitation of reservoirs to meet daily peak demand ; and
vii) pr-ovision of technical assistance to NI'WSA including detection and control of water lossesm
system analysis and operation, construction supervision, financial pefxma=c, selction and
development of a computerized accounting system and training.
Note: -
Items (iii), Civ) and (v) were deleted according to Amendment to the Credit Agreement issued
on September 8, 1997. Technical assistance for detection and control of water losses, improve
system analysis and operation was stopped in April 2, 1993 by NWSA afer consuting IDA
due to three reasons:
EL) Lack of find to execute the main contracts 3A & 3B after the Gulf Crisis;
b) no updated maps are available to continue the activities taking into consideration that
producing new maps will increase the cost of the contract amount and;
c) the cost of contract 3B was over estimaed .
Proiect Cost and Financing
The original project cost was estimated USS 34.7 milion, but during the project execution
period and due to the Gulf crisis in 1Q90 and economic/political crisis in Yemen in 1994, this
resulted to restruct the project to decrease the cost. The Government increased its contribution to
cover the gap caused by the cancelation of KFAED loan. Therefore the Government financed
3 7' . of the foreign currency for contract 3A - Pipelines and AFSED financed 63% (plcase refer to
tables 2 & 3).
D. Achievement of Project Obiectives.
At the closing date most of the project objectives had been achieved,
E. ImDlementation Record and Maior Factors Affectine the
Proiect
Eriect Implemcntation Record:
1. The Project Preparation took place by the Borrower, uith assistance from IDA staff. The &tLT
appraisal report was issued on June 22, 1988. The Credit Agreement was signed on October
17, 1988 and became effecive on June 9, 1989 . The original closing date was set for DOCo
31, 1995 and it was extended to December 31, 1998 .
2. Project lmplementation started after the effectiveness of IDA credit, AFESD and KFAED on
June 9, 1989, May 14, 1989 and July 22, 1989 .
-MI. WOW SuPp                                   2                              r      a



3. An agreement signed between NU'SA (formerly was PWC) and ECG for Consuction
Supervision Services on July 1989 . ECG's Project team carried out the following main duties
according to the TOR:
Review and approval of the tender documents for contracts:
AMWSP-1:   Supply and Delivery of Water Wedl Casings and Screens
AMWSP-2:  Drilling and Testing of Boreholes
AMWSP-3: Constructions
4. Offers were submnitted for Contracts AMWSP-1 and AMNWSP-2 on March 8. 1990 and
awarded to Dandar from Denmark for contract 1 and China Smte Construction Engineering
(CSCE) from China for contract 2 on larch 28, 1991 and November 20, 1991 respectively.
Both Contracts were completed successfully .
5 The execution of contract 3 was delayed due to the Gulf Crisis in 1990 and Civl Crisis in 1994,
the following is a brief description of the history of contract AMBWSP-3.
* Review and approval of AMWSP-3 was completed and submitted to PWC in February 1990.
* Upon the request of the funding agencies and PWC Contract AMSWP-3 was split into two
separate contracts:
- Contract AMWSP-3A Pipeline to be financed by AFESD & KFAED
- Contract AMWSP-3B Construction to be financed by IDA
* These two contracts were prepared and submitted to PWC for approval on July 23, 1990.
* Contractors AMWSP-3A and 3B were tendered on August 16, 1990 . Bids wer received on
Decmber 2 1990, and the evaluation report was submitted to PWC on April 2, 1991 . Only
two fims submitted bids and their quoted price exceeded the available funds.
e An initiative was taken by IDA to restructure the project in a manner to satisfy the prtes
water demand and construction cost to lie within the available funds . For this reason working
sessions were held in Cairo and Adien in Apri and June 1991, simultaneously, where differnt
solutions were discussed . These meetings concluded the need for a Least Cost Analysis to be
made and recommended the best solution . The Least Cost Analysis Report was prepared by
ECO and submitted to PWC in August 1991 .
* PWC invited ECG to a meeting held in Sana'a on September11, 1992, attended by IDA.
During this meeting the decision was taken for ECO to submit a proposal to PWC for
engineering services related to the restucturing of the project .
Tender advertising procured for cAntracts 3A & 3B caried out by NWSA during March mi
April 1993.
.uMImMWowSop* Pru)ed                           3                                    on



* Fifteen bidders presented their bids on August 18, 1993 at NU'SA Head Office in Smna'a.
* ECG submitted the tender evaluation report on October 1993
* A contract agreements were signed on January 1995 between SADE from France and NWSA
for both contracts 3A & 3B . The effectivens Qfthe contracts started on August 29, 1996.
* SADE completed contracts 3A & 3B successfUlly on August 29, 1998.
Factors Affecing the Proiect:
The implementation of the contract 3 was delryed due to the Gulf Crisis in 1990 and National
Crisis in 1994 .
* Delay in the payment of the counter part budget.
F. Proiect Sustainabilitv.
The project succeeded in achieving its objectives especially iu increasing water production for
AI-Mukalla to the level required to meet effective demand to the year 2010.
The financial and computeized billing accounting system is improved and by the end of
Decmber 1998 billing will be processCd by the cgmputer.
The tariff increased in Jull998, 6emoreterevenucsot.-d-MukaUa branch will be suffiient to cover
its expenses (other than depreciation, non-cash charges and interest) especially after comissioning of
the project on August 29, 1998.
G. Bank Performance.
The frequency of Baank mission was adequate . The missions who visited the site during the
implementation of the project gave their assistanceand cooperation to the entire satisfaction of the
PIU in finsalizing many issues that required quick decision, but staff changes led sometimes to some
problemsto the PIU staff and the implementation of the proje  components.
H. Borrower Performance.
L The PITJ has sucmcssfiully fulfilled its obligations with assistance of IDA's supervision missions
b. The project received strong support from the Government inspite the delay of due payments
for the Consultants and the Contractor.
c. Audit reports were submitted to IDA.
A41-M. Wowr SupyPja                             4                               7w'mha# ifS



d. Tbe P1  and NWSA IVQ maintained accurate records of projet accoa  swhich were audited
by private sectors.
e. PIU submitted progress reports to the financiers regularly.
I. Assessment of outcome.
The project succeeded to increase water production to meet the demand for AI-Muklcala
city and surrounding areas overall, the outcome of this project is judged to be satisfactory.
J. Future Oneration
A. Gena Descrt6on of the Projt
1. An uaga'ab Wellfield Area
a. Anaga'ah Power Station
- High V. switchgear panel.
* Genetors control panel and fuel system
- Transformers (500 KVAlOO KVA).
* Pump contol panel
^ LAing equipment
* Air conditioning, ventilation and electric building services.
. 3.0 Km. Approximately of H. V overhead line.
. Pole - mounted traformers (50 KVA).
b. Borehole Pumping Stations.
I 10 No of welihead buildings each one eqWpped with one submersible pump -
Rae of dcharge fibr each pump is 251/sec (90 cu. Mlh) - complete with the
elec. Panel and the other measuring equipmcn
2. Chlorination Buildings (GhaB Bs-wazier. Al Sedad and Bierain)
*Chloxinion equipment and control panel.
.Distribinion switcbboared.
-Flow measurent equpment and instrumentation panel (Al Sedad).
-Power Station (Al Sedad).
3. Reservoirs and Main Transmission PiReline
. An ng'ah reservoir              400m3
. Break pressure resenroir        lOOm3
. Al Sedad reservoir             1 200m3
. Upper Al Omal reservoir        2000m3
. Khalf reservoir                 40Dm'
AWiIMU                                                     . S   5               mi



. 60.0 km of pipelines with varous diameters (300, 400, 500 and 600 mm).
B. OvernTtin and Control of the System
The system was designed to be controlled automatically according to the conditions of
the network and the discharge rate during the day. Simply the system can be devided into the
followng steps to explain the method of control of each step:
1. UDDer Al Omal Reservoir.
Controling the system  shall be carried out by the altitude valve which was erected on
the irlet pipeline. Once the water level inside the reservoir Teaches to the top water level, tht
valve shil be closed. The water level inside the reservoirs can be checked by using the level
indicator gauges which shall be erected to the reservoirs . Also, the operator can control the
water level by throttling the inmet valves manually .
The possibility of tranferring datz from Upper Al Omal reservoir to Al Sedad or to
NWSA office in Al-Mukalla shall be achieved by radio link.
L Al Sedad Reservoir.
The same control system shall be used in Al Sedad reservoir through the altitude valves
based on the water level inside the reservoirs. Two inlet pipelines each of them equipped with
one alitude valve.
Water level in the reservoir shall be trnsferred to the insumetation panel which was
erected in the chlorinafion buiGing.
3. Break Pressure Reservoir,
Once the water level -eaches to the top water level inside the resevoir, two floating
valves shaU be closed gradually to stop the incoming water.
A. An nzra'ab Reservoir.
When the water level inside the reservoir reached to its top level an electric sigral shal
be sent to the control panel in the power station to shut down the pumps automatically. The
operator can put the pumps into operation again according to the required rte of discharge.
S. An n3ar'ah Power Station Radio Link
Upon the request ofNWSA a radio link was erected to link between An ap'lah power
station and NWSA branch office in Ghadl Ba-Wszier. The Radio Link tranfs data and
information about the situation of the wellfield to the branch office which c  trander the same
data to NWSA office in AI-Mululla by the telepbone which is availab  in both offices for
taking the required actions .
C  Cornmissioning and Maintennce as Per the Contrct Reuiremens.
As per the cont    requirements, the ontractor was supervsing the wordng of the plant
during the commissioning peiod and provided ia1 necessary engineeing and teclical supenvsonL
Upon handing over the projec to NWSA on August 29, 1998, the penod of maintenance
AJ-hUL%ft WMf Seppl Pm.cO                      6                              _      2m3o



commenced for a period of one yew, during the maintenance period the Contactor is responsible
to carry out the followings:
1.  Instruct the Eprnlover's operators in the operation and maintenance of the plant
2.   AIJ routine maintenance.
3.   Supply of the recommended lubricants and consumable items such as oil.
D. List of Persons Required to Cover thw Opertion and the MafnfeMargfter
Component of the Project.
a. Operation
1. A n napa 'ah wellfield area (Power sration. wellhea4 O.H line & An naa 'ah reservoir)
List of persons required / shift to operate the system is as folows:
* Shift Leader (Engineer)                      No. I
. Operators (Technician)                       No. 3
. (Generators, Transformers, Pumps .... etc.)
. Assistant operator (skilled labour)          No. I
. Guard                                        No. 2
2. Chlorination Buil&iwn
List of persons required I shift to operate the system for each building is as follows:
*    Operator (Technician)                        No. 1
d    Assistant operator (unskilled labour)        No. I
*     iGuard                                      No. 1
3. Uver Al Omal Reservoir.
List of persons required / shift is as follows:
i Operator (Technician)                        No. I
Assistant oper&tor (unskilled labour)         No. 1
Guari                                        No. 1
Note:
1. No. of working hours / shift = 8 Hrs. except for the guards it is 12 Hrs.
2  One more operator to be added at Al Sedad cblorination building for opating the
power station and the reservoir itself.
3. Three shifts are required / day.
b. Maintenance.
1. ELearomecdanical Team.
This team is covering the required maintenance for tll project's compon 1s con
the electromechanical items and it consists of the folowings:
Team Leader (Electromechanical Eng.)          No. I
Supervisor (Technician)                       No. 1
Assistant Supervisor (Foreman)                No. I
Techkiran                                     No.2
Assistant Tech. (skilled Labour)              No. 2
d    UTnskilled Labour                              No. 4
A"IM   ow Sop  ,)                                7                               N m 



2. Network / Reservoirs Team.
This team is covering the required miaintenance for the main pipelie including the
special fittings together with the new reservoirs and it consists of the foUowings:
e   Team Leader (Engineer)                        No. I
Supervisor (Technician)                      No. 1
o Foreman                                    No. 2
e    skilled Labour                               No. 3
e    Unskilled Labour                             No. 4
Driver                                       No. 2
General tools, equipment and transportation
E. Traitrin.
Training courses were been provided by the Contractor during the period 1 - 29 July
1998 to NWSA Al-Mukalla branch staff to enable them to carry out the future operation and
maintenance with required levels. A complete training manual has been submitted by the contractor
and was translated into Arabic and distrbuted to NWSA staff it includes the main components of
the project such as the followings:
-      Mechanical items.
a      Electrical items.
a      Chlorination syste.
a      Special fittings (e.g. Pressuwe reduction valve, Altitude valves ........ etc.)
K Key Lessons Learned
AMWSP has been implemented successfully and achieved its objectives and thus provided
useul lessons during its implementation period as follows:
I) To avoid the delay in implementation of a project, a decision for any issue should be taken as
soon as possible.
II) To award the PIUs more authorities and facilities as an independent unit to enable the proper
excution of its tasks.
1II) Provision of adequate counterpart budget without any delay for smooth extafion of the
projects activities.
IV) More support is required from concemed authorities in the government to avoid the dday of
payment for the Consultants and the Contractor.
AIMaI.h 1W v Spply ?rcinj                       8                               H sme



Implementation Completion Report                            26
ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MIlKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1944-YEM)
COMMENTS FROM THF GOVERNMENT



From: NSA
- 1 - ~~~~~PHONE No. :  571250161
Jun. 24 1999  7 11Pt.1  P0o
NATWWN11 WAYER & SIlJTIfN AUTHORIYI
Head Office - Sanaa
Republic of Yemen
llef: } QL, / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....    ...              ....   ... . . l:,
r)D t :,2 4 -6'-.
Mr. Uruji Kirmani
Scor lmpilcmentation Specialis
Infrastructure Dle lopment Group
Mhidlc El ast and Narth Africa
*IThe Wnrld Bank
1818 11 Street N.W.
Wishilngtn, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
FaY. No. 00 1 202 477 6.391
Subjtct; Yoemen AI-Mukalla Water Supply Vrojocrand
TaUz J'l"nd Disavuer Preycution and Municipal Detelopment Projcct
- Draft lmpitmentation Compkdlton l&epowt
Dear Mr. irminrni
ReferCnce to your lettr dated lune 7, i1999 ncncering the abov-tmcntioned cubject,. we
wOuld lik   U) cxprvss -our sincere thanks and graatid  to the World Bank in pSeneral anI to
Your roodseIf in particular. YIOUr ou1tqtandidg pertormnnce and devuloitm made all the
di.Mrmece in Project arma and objectives wer lbfained. As for ICT wc would like to inroifn
you that NWSA has no comhcnts on the wuhjeet repor,l
Sincertly youztv, 
Dr. Mohanied Al- fr       i       -V
i 7Y Tbe Dlrector Gener81         r
i"Y~~~~\A~~



Implementation Completion Report                                   27
Annex D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Creclit 1944-YEM)
Map Section



IBRD I 9947R
,   _,  {_  0  ;   iG  i  i   S;  t   &  \;  i  )  k i \ 5 4 i k; t;  ( i ( 2 \   ' 7 5 2 ;'tt0 $ i;  >~TTHHrdrrmmuut 
E   zz  u;      :E~~~AL MUKALLAWA>T90ER   UPPLYacuEz50g                                           !       :; PR JC     N\'B;tl                                                                                                                                            N'0;(0\i;''i''Ei i0;:lSljg3g)li'04l;;005td ''
PROJECT. N                                  SXITIN                                                                                                                                                                    %-N ''' '                          avusiH
E    C  g    2:  _      ,  ffi1NW        ;:595;2\ < P U.  $         PIPELNES                                                         N                                                                        .                             N09  .- Nn\05 :i0            :     :    '\ ;'8?        :t: -:       :
*     UPASSONS                         WI!NSF SE PS                                                                                         -   2                                  .              .      ,.         N                                Ng;i 5j2 9 :!, , :& ; ; f:  J.asi      ti   : iD, . .  
%                     .                                       .                       N       Nj :                N: 
RE PUBUC OF YEMEN                                                                                                                                                                :%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   N N~'-
'['7  UOWN'LS                                                                                    N                                       N                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 
r                                   -   - -  INIERNATIONAPI BOUNUAPESPELNE
WADI Rps~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mENAWAU                                                       
i '!\' 2 ':::                                                                                                                                                    ....(  t0i' i352''; D:f&0:jREFS:IELU3  N09 fi S' Na7*V72;78<oi,i5
NTER    6N  _uNk                       _                                                                   A
/zfi   _<  ;;  j  / <---o_ 0 SotEBtfrushf200 BEiitS zrZ M~~ i>5-- ArRukAyb              N I                                                               N.             N    -~ -
. ,, i \x </s ~ Af MUf(ALshA 0 -Z~N
Fdeo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A R.ksal.ybkila 
UKAL--- -------- -  - 
.hownonhl.rpUor irpl>,o.lil.rueollUs ~ ~ ~   ~          ~          ~         -.a a Mukfonflla
endDlsntorrwpenceofschbaDodenes                                                                                                          S                        [fF OPIA >, ,.-   1          F         4f         fF'     F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S AU   I       RA BI 
N N                                                                                                                                                                 A      N       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      
N  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L     
AIrpt~~~~~,~~,ot  N  'N  ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     ~              -        '-~~~~~-  NC N      N     N                ONNN
"'Ros ol Mukcsllo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AlA
I JITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A"                   N~~~~~~ACH1W



