Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1944 YDR
                 (Al Mukalla Water Supply Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                     PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION
                      Dated October 17, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  October  17,  1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the   Association)   and  PUBLIC  WATER
CORPORATION (PWC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Democratic  Republic  of Yemen (the Bor-
rower) and the  Association,  the  Association  has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to  eight  million  seven  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,700,000), on the  terms  and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement,  but  only on condition that PWC
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and PWC,  the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to PWC on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS PWC, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) PWC  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial,  engineering  and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or  cause  to be provided, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PWC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  PWC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PWC shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) PWC shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  PWC shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by PWC  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. PWC shall: (i)  within six months after the end
of each calendar year, prepare  and furnish to the Association for
review and comments a report  on  PWC's operation and the progress
achieved in the  execution  of  the  Project  and  in reaching its
technical and financial indicators  as agreed with the Association
during such calendar year; and (ii) based on such review, take all
necessary measures  satisfactory  to  the  Association  to improve
PWC's performance as measured by such indicators.
     Section 2.07. PWC shall: (a)  provide the Association for its
review and  comments,  with  the  findings  and recommendations of
each of the studies  referred  to  in  Part  B of the Project; and
(b) arrange for the implementation of such recommendations, taking
Page  3
into account the Associaton's comments thereon.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PWC
     Section 3.01. PWC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility  practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. PWC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. PWC shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  PWC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  PWC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any  case  not  later  than:  (A) six months
               after the end of  each  such year, certified copies
               of its financial statements  for such year; and (B)
               nine months after the end of each such year, certi-
               fied copies of,  (1)  its  financial statements for
               such year as so audited, and (2) the report of such
               audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such
               detail as  the  Association  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree PWC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of  PWC shows that the estimated net
revenues of PWC for each fiscal  year  during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall  be  at  least  1.2  times the estimated debt
service requirements of  PWC  in  such  year  on  all  debt of PWC
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purpose of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of PWC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
Page  4
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been  entered  into, but only to
               the extent that the  amount subject to such guaran-
               tee is withdrawn and outstanding.
        (iii)  the  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes, but
                    excluding  provision  for  depreciation, other
                    non-cash operating  charges  and  interest and
                    other charges on debt.
          (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by  PWC  not  earlier  than  twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the  Association  and  PWC  accept  as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified PWC of its acceptability, provided that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future operating results of PWC.
        (vii)  Whenever it shall be  necessary  to value, in terms
               of the currency  of  the  Borrower, debt payable in
               another currency, such  valuation  shall be made on
               the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
               at which such  other  currency  is,  at the time of
               such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the  purposes of
               servicing such debt,  or,  in  the  absence of such
               rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, PWC  shall  produce  for  each  of  its  fiscal years total
revenues equivalent to not  less  than  the  sum of: (i) its total
operating expenses; (ii) the  amount  of its debt service require-
ments; (iii) increases in its net working capital other than cash;
and (iv) 10% for its 1988 to 1991 fiscal years and 12% for each of
its fiscal years thereafter, of  the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected  to  be incurred, for each such
fiscal year and the two next following fiscal years.
     (b)  Before November 30  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, PWC
shall, on the basis  of  realistic  forecasts  prepared by PWC and
satisfactory  to  the  Association,  review  the  adequacy  of its
Page  5
revenues from operation to meet  the requirements set forth in the
preceding paragraph (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year, and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  PWC  would not meet the
requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the fiscal years
covered by such  review,  PWC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "total  revenues"  means  the sum of total
               operating revenues and net non-operating income.
         (ii)  the term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
        (iii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provisions for
               depreciation, other non-cash  operating charges and
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
         (vii)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
       (viii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
         (ix)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures incurred on account  of fixed assets, includ-
               ing interest  charged  to  construction  related to
               operations.
          (x)  Whenever it shall be  necessary  to value, in terms
               of the currency  of  the  Borrower, debt payable in
               another currency, such  valuation  shall be made on
               the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
               at which such  other  currency  is,  at the time of
               such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the  purposes of
Page  6
               servicing such debt,  or,  in  the  absence of such
               rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Association.
     (e)  The foregoing provisions  of  this Section supersede the
provisions set forth  in  Section  4.03  of  the Project Agreement
No. 1739 YDR  (Greater  Aden  Second  Water Supply Project), dated
March 20, 1987, between the Association and PWC.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of PWC  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
PWC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For PWC:
          Public Water Corporation
          P.O. Box 4004
          Aden
          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  7
                MEYAH                          2320 MEYAH AD
                Aden
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted  to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of PWC,  or  by  PWC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the General Manager of PWC  or  such other person or persons as
the said  General  Manager  shall  designate  in  writing, and PWC
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the autho-
rity and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ A. J. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Abadalla S. Al-Ashtal
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and  materials  under  Parts  A.4  and  B.2  of the
Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of  $850,000  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded through
limited international bidding procedures  on  the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids invited  from  a list of at least four
qualified suppliers eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in accor-
dance with the procedures set  forth  in  Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Works under Part A.4  of  the  Project  may be carried out by
force  account  with  the  Association's  prior  approval  and  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  8
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist  PWC  in: (a) supervising the construction
works under Part A of the  Project;  and (b) carrying out Part B.1
of the Project, PWC shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.  Any such consultants whose employment
shall be  financed  from  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for The Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.   The consultants referred to  in  paragraph  1 of this Section
shall be employed in accordance  with a time schedule satisfactory
to the Association which shall  provide  for the employment of (a)
the consultants required under Part B.1 (a), (b), (c), (f) and (g)
of the  the  Project  by  July  1,  1989;  and  (b) the consultant
required under Part B.1 (e) of the Project by December 31, 1989.
