Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1944 YDR
                 (Al Mukalla Water Supply Project)
                              between
               PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated October 17, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  October   17,   1988,  between    PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN  (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  in  order  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  financing  the
Project, the Borrower intends to  contract: (1) from the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social  Development  (the  Arab Fund) a loan (the
Arab Fund Loan)  in  an  amount  equivalent  to nine million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($9,700,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in a loan agreement (the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and  the Arab Fund; and (2) from
the Kuwait Fund for Arab  Economic Development (the Kuwait Fund) a
loan (the  Kuwait  Fund  Loan)  in  an  amount  equivalent to nine
million seven hundred thousand  dollars  ($9,700,000) on the terms
Page  2
and conditions set forth in a loan agreement (the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement) to be entered into  between the Borrower and the Kuwait
Fund;
     (C)  the Project will  be  carried  out  by  the Public Water
Corporation of the Borrower  (PWC)  with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to PWC the proceeds of  the  Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and PWC;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                          ARTICLE I
               General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.O1.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  last  sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and PWC of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PWC pursuant to Section 3.O1
(b) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (c)  "PWC"  means  the  Borrower's  Public  Water Corporation
established under Law No. 19 of 1970 of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (e)  "Yemeni Dinars"  means  dinars  in  the  currency of the
Borrower.
                         ARTICLE II
                         The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,700,000).1
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
_________________________
1/ Equivalent at time of negotiations to US$12 million.
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
Page  3
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in the National
Bank  of  Yemen  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1995,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of June  30  immediately preceding the accrual date or
at such other rates as  may  be  set  from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1998  and  ending  March  15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
Page  4
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The  currency  of  the  United States is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The General Manager of PWC or such other person
or persons as the said  General Manager shall designate in writing
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required  or  permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.O2 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall  cause  PWC  to  perform  in  accordance with the
provisions of the  Project  Agreement  all  the obligations of PWC
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to  enable PWC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  make   an   equity   contribution   of  $19,400,000
               equivalent from  the  Borrower's  own resources, to
               PWC; and
         (ii)  relend the proceeds of  the  Credit  to PWC under a
               subsidiary  loan  agreement   to  be  entered  into
               between  the  Borrower  and  PWC  under  terms  and
               conditions which shall  have  been  approved by the
               Association, including terms  pursuant to which PWC
               shall be required to:  (a)  repay the equivalent in
               terms of  Yemeni  Dinars  of  the  proceeds  of the
               Credit so relent (such  equivalent to be determined
               as of the  respective  date,  of  withdrawal of the
               proceeds of  the  Credit  from  the Credit Account)
               over a period of  twenty five (25) years, inclusive
               of a grace period  of  five  (5) years; and (b) pay
               interest on  the  principal  amount  so  relent and
               withdrawn and outstanding from  time to time at the
               rate of eight per cent (8%) per annum.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
Page  5
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out  by  PWC  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action necessary on
its part to enable PWC to take the measures referred to in Section
4.03 (c) of the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  PWC shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that PWC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Law No. 19  of  1970  of  the  Borrower  shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of  PWC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PWC or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  PWC shall have become  unable  to  pay its debts as they
mature or any  action  or  proceeding  shall  have been undertaken
whereby any of the  property  of  PWC  shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the Arab  Fund  Loan or the Kuwait
                    Fund Loan, for  the  financing  of the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the  Arab  Fund Loan Agreement or
                    the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement; or
               (B)  the Arab Fund  Loan  or  the  Kuwait Fund Loan
                    shall have become due and payable prior to the
                    agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if  the  Borrower   or   PWC   establishes  to  the
               satisfaction  of  the  Association  that:  (A) such
               suspension,     cancellation,     termination    or
               prematuring is not  caused  by  the  failure of the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               the Arab Fund  Loan  Agreement  or  the Kuwait Fund
               Loan Agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for the
               Project are available to  the  Borrower or PWC from
               other sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
               with the  obligations  of  the  Borrower under this
               Agreement and of PWC under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.O1 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been executed on
Page  7
behalf of the Borrower and PWC; and
     (b)  that the Arab Fund  Loan  Agreement  and the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreement have been  executed  on  behalf of the Borrower and
the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund, respectively; and
     (c)  that the consultants referred  to  in paragraph 1 (a) of
Section II of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project Agreement have been
selected.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by PWC, and  is  legally  binding  upon PWC in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  PWC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PWC in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of this  Agreement  shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development  Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date 20 years  after  the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning
          P.O. Box 1193
          Aden
          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               TAKHTEET                          2289 TAKHTEET AD
               Aden
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
Page  8
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                    By /s/ Abdalla S. Al-Ashtal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ A. J. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Construction of          6,600,000          100% of foreign
     boreholes pipelines                         expenditures
     and reservoirs,
     supply and instal-
     lation of mechanical
     and electrical
     equipment and asso-
     ciated works, supply
     of operational
     equipment, bore
     casings and screens,
     distribution pipes
     and fittings under
     Parts A.1, 3, 5 and
     B.2 of the Project
(2)  Consultants'               800,000          100% of foreign
     services and                                expenditures
     training under
     Part B.1 (except
     Part B.1 (f) of
     the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'              430,000           50% of foreign
     services for                                expenditures
     supervision of
     the Project
     under Part A
     of the Project
Page  9
(4)  Unallocated                870,000
                              _________
          TOTAL               8,700,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) increasing water  production  to  meet  the demand for potable
water beyond the year 2000  in  Al Mukalla; (ii) strengthening and
expanding the existing  primary  and  secondary water distribution
systems; and (iii)  strengthening  the operational and maintenance
capacities of PWC.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   Construction and equipping of  a  borefield  at An Nagaah and
carrying out of the associated works.
2.   Construction  of  a  transmission  pipeline  of  about  50 km
between the borefield and Al Mukalla.
3.   Re-equipping and upgrading of  the existing borefield at Wadi
Buwaysh.
4.   Improvement and extension of  the primary and secondary water
distribution networks in Al Mukalla.
5.   Construction and  rehabilitation  of  reservoirs  to meet the
daily peek demand.
Part B:
1.   Strengthening the technical and  management capacities of PWC
through:
     (a)  the development and execution  of  a program designed to
improve system analysis and operation;
     (b)  the development and execution  of  a program designed to
detect and control water losses;
     (c)  the development of  a  program  designed  to improve the
water distribution system;
     (d)  the provision of on-the-job  training and of fellowships
for PWC staff;
     (e)  the development of a computerized accounting system;
     (f)  the carrying out of  a  study  to determine the training
needs of PWC and the  development of a five-year training program;
and
     (g)  the carrying out of a financial study of PWC.
Page  10
2.   Provision  of  water   meters   and  operational  and  office
equipment to PWC.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(3) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 375,000 to  be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits  shall  be  withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
Page  11
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
