Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7556-JM 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second HIV/AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
JAMAICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 10, 2008 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7556-JM
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 10, 2008, between JAMAICA (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) 
(“Loan”), to assist 
in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
Page  3
-2- 
 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall cause Part 1.3 of the Project to be carried out by Civil Society 
Organizations and the Private Sector, and carry out Part 1.2 of the Project through the 
Non-Health Line Ministries, and all other Parts of the Project through the MOH with the 
assistance of its RHAs, all the above in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than 
 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the loan which expire on 
 
November 13, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and the Public Service of the 
Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and the Public Service  
30 National Heroes Circle 
Kingston 4 
Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1-876-924-9291 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
JAMAICA 
 
By /s/ Anthony Smith Rowe Johnson 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-4- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the implementation of 
the Borrower’s NHP 
by supporting the: (i) deepening of prevention interventions targeted at high risk groups and the 
general population; (ii) increasing of access to treatment, care and support services for infected 
and affected individuals; and (iii) strengthening of program management and analysis to identify 
priorities for building the capacity of the health sector to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
other priority health problems.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part 1
.
Prevention
1.1 
Strengthen the capacity of the MOH and of the RHAs to provide technical guidance for 
 
the national response to HIV/AIDS and to deliver HIV/AIDS related services for 
 
prevention through the health care system by: 
 
(a) 
supporting behavior change communication interventions, targeting at risk 
groups and the general population; 
 
(b) 
expanding voluntary counseling and testing to permit scaling-up of treatment and 
care and to prevent HIV transmission and expand prevention of mother-to-child 
transmission services; 
 
(c) 
improving the management of STIs; 
 
(d) 
promoting and providing condoms to increase condom use; and 
 
(e) 
improving blood safety services by, 
inter alia
,
increasing voluntary blood 
donations.  
 
1.2 
Scale up the contribution of the Non-Health Line Ministries to prevention activities to 
make the national response truly multi-sectoral by: 
 
(a) 
supporting the implementation of the Non-Health Line Ministries’ work plans;  
 
(b) 
co-financing the staffing costs of the focal points for Non-Health Line Ministries; 
and 
 
(c) 
providing technical assistance and training for the focal points and their 
respective ministerial HIV/AIDS committees. 
 
1.3 
Support prevention activities by Civil Society Organizations and the Private Sector, 
through the provision of technical support and grants for demand-driven subprojects that 
would target interventions for key populations at higher risk. 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
Part 2
.
Treatment, Care and Support
2.1 
Support the scaling-up of treatment, care and support by: 
 
(a)  
improving the public laboratory system to enhance diagnostic capacity as it 
relates to HIV and tuberculosis testing and monitoring of related conditions; and 
 
(b) 
strengthening capacity to manage opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and anti-
retroviral treatment through the development, update and dissemination of 
technical guidelines and procedures, the provision of drugs, nutritional 
supplements and substitute infant feeding formula and the training of health care 
workers in the comprehensive management of  HIV/AIDS, STIs, opportunistic 
infections, tuberculosis and  prevention of mother-to-child transmission. 
 
Part 3
.
Institutional Capacity Strengthening for Legislative Reform, Policy Formulation, 
Program Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
3.1 
Provide technical assistance to support changes to the legislative and policy framework in 
such areas as: 
 
(a)  
updating of the Public Health Act to address new health challenges such as 
 
HIV/AIDS; and  
 
(b)  
advocating for further legislative and policy reform to address stigma and 
 discrimination. 
 
3.2 
Co-finance staff costs for the technical and fiduciary functions of the PCU and the RHAs, 
in support of the coordination and management of the Borrower’s NHP. 
 
3.3 
Strengthen the monitoring and evaluation system by 
inter alia
:
(a) 
supporting the development of a monitoring and evaluation framework and 
operational plan for improving the Borrower’s HIV/AIDS surveillance and 
information management; 
 
(b) 
conducting studies, surveys and surveillance on the general population and 
special groups; and  
 
(c) 
co-financing staff costs, equipment, and training in monitoring and evaluation. 
 
Part 4
.
Health Sector Development Support
4.1 
Support the upgrading and improved management of the biomedical waste management 
system by 
inter alia
:
(a) 
upgrading waste management treatment facilities, including the provision of 
equipment, waste disposal supplies and materials to enable proper segregation 
practices and the procurement of maintenance service contracts for the western 
and southeastern treatment facilities; 
Page  7
-6- 
 
(b) 
preparing facility specific waste management plans, including the creation of a 
system to support health care facilities in the documentation of infectious waste 
generation on a continuous basis; and  
 
(c) 
supporting capacity building activities, including the development and 
dissemination of medical waste management training materials, as well as the 
training of health workers in medical waste management, post-exposure 
prophylaxis, and the operation and maintenance of new equipment.  
 
4.2 
Support an assessment of the obstacles that limit the capacity of the health sector to 
deliver  quality  health care efficiently to those needing it most.    
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project 
implementation: 
(a) 
the COHSOD, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank for the 
purposes of the Project, with responsibility for, 
inter alia
,
setting policy, overall 
coordination and monitoring and evaluating the performance of the NHP; and  
(b) 
a Project coordinating unit, within the NHP of the MOH, with structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including 
inter alia 
responsibility for
 
coordinating the activities of, and providing fiduciary support 
to, the MOH, Non-Health Line Ministries, RHAs, Civil Society Organizations 
and the Private Sector
 (collectively, “Implementing Agencies”) as required under 
the NHP and carrying out supervision of the Project.  
B.
 
Other 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operations manual 
satisfactory to the Bank, such manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the implementation strategies and the procedures for monitoring and 
evaluating the Project, including the Project monitoring indicators; 
(b) 
the guidelines for the preparation of Annual Work Plans; 
(c) 
the environmental guidelines for, 
inter alia
,
the management of the 
environmental risks of bio-medical waste and of small-scale construction 
works; 
(d) 
the financial management procedures for the Project, as well as the agreed 
format of the financial statements, chart of accounts and interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project;  
(e) 
the procurement procedures and the standard bidding documents to be used 
for each procurement method as well as the model contracts for the 
procurement of goods and works; and 
(f) 
with respect to the grants under Part 1.3 of the Project: 
(i)  
the composition of the committee that would select grant 
beneficiaries; 
Page  9
-8- 
 
(ii)  
the eligibility criteria for beneficiaries of the grants;   
(iii)  
the criteria for approval and the procedures for monitoring the  
subprojects supported by such grants; and  
(iv)  
the model grant agreement for the provision of funds to the 
beneficiaries and the implementation of the Demand-driven 
Subprojects. 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the Operations Manual or any part thereof is not amended, waived, 
suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s prior written concurrence, and in case of any 
inconsistency between the terms of provisions of the Operations Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare consolidated annual work plans for the Project, in accordance with the 
guidelines set forth in the Operations Manual,  including the work plans of the 
MOH, the Non-Health Line Ministries and the RHAs, as well as a budget line for 
grants to be awarded to Civil Society Organizations and the Private Sector; 
 
(b) 
not later than February 28 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 
year 2009, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual work plan, each said 
plan to include 
inter alia
:
(i)  
the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower, with the 
assistance of the Implementing Agencies, as the case may be, during the 
ensuing Fiscal Year following the receipt of the Bank’s approval of the 
relevant plan; and 
 
(ii)  
the updated Procurement Plan and estimated disbursements by Project 
component for each said Fiscal Year;  
 
(c) 
implement each said Annual Work Plan, approved by the Bank, in accordance 
with its terms; and  
 
(d) 
carry out the Annual Work Plan for the Fiscal Year 2008-2009 as approved by 
the Bank prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; and  
(b) 
the Borrower’s agencies, the Civil Society Organizations and the Private Sector 
are made aware of the Anti-corruption Guidelines and take all necessary 
measures to support the implementation of the Project in compliance therewith. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and included in the Operations 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
four months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping   
(c)  Direct Contracting  
(d)  Limited International Bidding 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consult
ants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Fixed budget  Selection 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection  
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts that shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
Page  12
-11- 
 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD
)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 services, 
Grants, 
Training 
 
and Operating Costs under 
 
Part 1 of the Project 
 
3,248,000 
 
97% 
(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 services, 
Training 
and 
 
Operating Costs under 
 
Part 2 of the Project 
 
1,736,000 
 
95% 
(3) Goods, consultants’ 
 services, 
Training 
and 
 
Operating Costs under 
 
Part 3 of the Project 
 
3,046,000 
 
72% 
(4) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 services, 
Training 
and 
 
Operating Costs under 
 
Part 4 of the Project  
 
1,945,000 
 
93% 
(5)  Front-end Fee 
 
25,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 10,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
 
(a) 
“Grants” means expenditure for goods and services financed by grants under Part 
1.3 of the Project.  
 
(b) 
“Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities (including 
workshops and fieldtrips) under the Project, including travel costs per diem of 
trainers, facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
 
(c) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of specialized staff, including staff 
responsible for project management and administration in the PCU and the 
RHAs, and sundry recurrent expenses directly related to the performance of 
Project activities. 
Page  13
-12- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
 
up to a year prior to this date but in no case before April 1, 2008, for Eligible 
 Expenditures. 
 
 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2012. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date by; (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2013  
 
through April 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
Page  15
-14- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
2. 
“Annual Work Plan” means any of the plans referred to in paragraph 3 (a) and (b) of 
Section I. B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    
3. 
 “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006.  
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“Civil Society Organizations” means the Borrower’s National AIDS Committee and non-
governmental organizations that receive grants to carry out Demand-driven Subprojects 
pursuant to Part 1.3 of the Project. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“COHSOD” means the Borrower’s Council for Health and Social Development which 
reports to the Borrower’s Cabinet or any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Demand-driven Subprojects” means the subprojects referred to in Part 1.3 of the Project. 
 
9. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s financial year April 1 of one year through March 31 
of the following year. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008).  
 
11. 
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus. 
 
12. 
“Implementing Agencies” means the MOH, Non-Health Line Ministries, RHAs, Civil 
Society Organizations and the Private Sector, collectively. 
 
13. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 
 
14. 
“NHP” means the Borrower’s National HIV/STI Program. 
 
15. 
“Non-Health Line Ministries” means the Borrower’s Ministries of: Education; Labour 
and Social Security; Tourism; and National Security. 
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
16. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, dated May 9, 2008, for the operation of the 
Project referred to at paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 
 
17. 
“PCU” means the coordinating unit referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
18. 
“Private Sector” means private sector entities that receive grants to carry out Demand-
driven Subprojects pursuant to Part 1.3 of the Project. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
20, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Public Health Act” means the Borrower’s Public Health Act of February 21, 1985 as 
amended to date.   
 
22. 
“RHA” means a regional health authority established by the Borrower’s National Health 
Services Act, dated October 1, 1997.  
 
23. 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infection. 
 
