                                          Documentof
                                      The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 42719-JM




                           PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$10MILLION

                                              TO

                                          JAMAICA

                                            FOR A


                               SECONDHIV/AIDS PROJECT


                                         April 9,2008




Sector ManagementUnitfor HumanDevelopment
CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
Latin America andCaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange RateEffective March 18, 2008)
                             Currency Unit= JamaicaDollar (JMD)
                                      1JMD =US$0.014
                                      US$1= JMD71.14

                             FISCAL YEAR April 1 -- March 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AGD       Auditor General'sDepartment
AIDS      Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
ANC       Ante-Natal Clinic
ARV       Antiretroviral
BCC       Behavior Change Communication
BSS       Behavior Surveillance Survey
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CAREC     CaribbeanEpidemiology Center
CBO       Community-Based Organization
CDC       Center for DiseaseControl and Prevention
CD4       Helper T-lymphocytes
CHARES    Center for HIV/AIDS Research, Education and Services
CMO       Chief Medical Officer
COHSOD    Council for Health and SocialDevelopment(Subcommittee of Cabinet)
CQ        Consultant Qualifications
csos
csw       Civil Society Organizations
          Commercial Sex Worker
DALY      Disability Adjusted Life Year
DOTS      Directly ObservedTreatment, Short Course
EC        EuropeanCommunity
FAA       Financial Administration and Audit Act
FBO       Faith-Based Organization
FY        FiscalYear
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFATM     GlobalFund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GOJ       Government of Jamaica
GTZ       Deutsche Gesellschaftfur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) GmbH
HAART     Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy
HATS      HIV/AIDS Tracking System
HCL       Health Corporation Limited
HIS       Health InformationSystem
HIV       HumanImmune-deficiency Virus
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
JAS       JamaicaAIDS Support
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
JN+       JamaicaNetwork of HIV+
KAPB      Knowledge, Attitude, Practices and Behavior
LAC       Latin American and Caribbean
LIB       Limited International Bidding

    M&E            Monitoring andEvaluation                             FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
    MDG            MillenniumDevelopmentGoal
    MOWS           Ministry of Financeandthe Public Service
    MOH            Ministry of Health
    MSM            MenHavingSex with Men
    NAC            NationalAIDS Committee
    NCB            NationalCompetitiveBidding
    NCC            NationalContract Commission
    NGO            Non-GovernmentalOrganization
     NHP           NationalHIVIAIDS Program
     NNRTI         Non-NucleosideReverseTranscriptaseInhibitors
     NPC           NationalP l w gCouncil
     NPHL          NationalPublicHealth Laboratory
     NSP           NationalHIVIAIDS StrategicPlan
     01            OpportunisticInfections
     PAC           ParishAIDS Committee
     PAHO          PanAmerican Health Organization
     PCU           ProjectCoordinationUnit
     PEP           Post-ExposureProphylaxis
     PIOJ          PlanningInstitute of Jamaica
     PLWHA         PeopleLiving with HIV/AIDS
     PMTCT         Preventionof Mother-to-Child Transmission
     PSO           PrivateSectorOrganization
     QCBS          Quality andCost-BasedSelection
     RHA           RegionalHealthAuthority
     RPR            RapidPlasmaReagin
     SBD            StandardBidding Documents
     SOE            Statementof Expenditures
     STI            SexuallyTransmittedInfection
     TB             Tuberculosis
     UNAIDS        Joint UnitedNationsProgramonHIV/AIDS
     UNGASS        UnitedNationsGeneralAssembly Special SessiononHIV/AIDS
     USAID          US.Agency for InternationalDevelopment
     VCT            Voluntary CounselingandTesting
     VDRL           Venereal Disease ResearchLaboratory
     WHO           World HealthOrganization




                                          CountryDirector:     Yvonne M.Tskita
                                             Sector Director   EvangelineJavier
                                           SectorManager:      KeithHansen
                                              Sector Leader    ChingboonLee
                                         Task TeamLeader:      Mary T. Mulusa



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                        JAMAICA
                         JAMAICA SECONDHIV/AIDS PROJECT
                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                          LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                         LCSHH

Date: April 9, 2008                          TeamLeader: Mary T. Mulusa
CountryDirector: Yvonne M.Tsikata             Sectors: Health (80%); Other socialservices
Sector Managermirector: KeithE.Hansen         (20%)
                                             Themes: HIV/AIDS (P);Health system
                                             performance(S)
ProjectID: P106622                           Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial
                                              Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan

[XILoan     [ 3 Credit [ ]Grant   [ ] Guarantee   [ ]Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 10.00
Proposedterms: The loanis a U.S. Dollar Variable SpreadLoan, with 5 years of grace period
and 30 years repayment.
                                 FinancingPlan(US$m)
                 Source                 1    Local            Foreign            Total
Borrower                                         1.54             0.00               1.54
InternationalBankfor Reconstructionand           6.00             4.00             10.00
Development
FinancingGap                                     0.00             0.00              0.00
Total:                                           7.54             4.00             11.54

Borrower:
Jamaica

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministry of Health
Address: 2-4, King Street
OceanaBuilding,
Kingston, Jamaica, West Indies
ContactPerson: KevinHarvey, SeniorMedical Officer
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US%m)
FY                    2008/09            2009/10            2010/11            2011/12
4nnual                   2.00                2.50              3.50                2.00
2umulative               2.00               4.50               8.00              10.00

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Ref. PAD 0.7
Have these been approved by Bank management?
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any criticalrisks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes []No
   u
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Ref. PAD0.7                                                                        [XIYes [ No
   Y
Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project development objectives are to assist inthe implementation of the Government's
NationalHIV/AIDS Programby supporting the: (i)       deepening of prevention interventions
targeted at high risk groups and the general population; (ii)increasing of access to treatment,
care and support services for infected and affected individuals; and (iii)
                                                                         strengthening of program
management and analysis to identify priorities for buildingthe capacity of the health sector to
respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and other priority health problems.
Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.4 Technical
Annex 4
Component1:Prevention(US$3.34 million). This component will support scaling up of
HIV/AIDS prevention interventions to halt and reversethe spreadof HIV/AIDS.

Component2: Treatment,CareandSupport(US$ 1.81million). This component will
provide financing to strengthenthe diagnostic capacity, enhance services (HIV/AIDS, sexually
transmitted infections, tuberculosis and prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV)and
support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS.

Component3: StrengtheningInstitutionalCapacity(US$4.26 million). This component
will support policy formulation for an enabling legal and regulatory environment, program
managementand monitoring and evaluation.

Component4: HealthSector DevelopmentSupport(US$2.10 million). This component will
support: (a) strengthening of biomedical waste management and (b) capacity assessment for the
health sector.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10

OP4.01-Environmental Assessment.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
None
Boardpresentation:
May 8,2008

Start-up Date:
September 1,2008

hankredit effectiveness:

August 6,2008

Covenants applicable to project implementation

  The Borrower shall, not later than February 28 of each year during Project implementation,
  starting in year 2009, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual action plan, each said
  plan to include inter alia:@)the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower, with the
  assistanceof the Implementing Agencies, as the case maybe, duringthe fiscal year following
  the receipt of the Bank's approval of the relevant plan; (ii) the updated Procurement Plan and
  estimated disbursements by Project activities for each said calendar year.


                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                             Page

I.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE.....................................................................                                      1
  A . Country and Sector Issues..................................................................................................              1
   B. Rationalefor BankInvolvement........................................................................................                     3
   C. HigherLevel Objectives To Which The ProjectContributes.............................................                                      4
  D.  ComplementingOtherExternalSources of Funding.........................................................                                    4

I1.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION....................................................................................................                    5
   A. LendingInstrument............................................................................................................            5
   B. ProjectDevelopment Objectiveand Key Indicators..........................................................                                 5
   C. ProjectComponents...........................................................................................................             5
   D. Lessons LearnedandReflectedinthe ProjectDesign.......................................................                                    8
   E. Alternatives Consideredand Reasons for Rejection........................................................                                10

111.  IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................................................................                   10
   A. PartnershipArrangements................................................................................................                 10
   B. Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements..............................................................                               10
   C. Monitoring andEvaluationof OutcomesAXesults ............................................................                                12
   D. Sustainability....................................................................................................................      12
   E. Critical RisksandPossibleControversialAspects for the ProposedProject...................13
   F. Loadcredit Conditions andCovenants ...........................................................................                          14

IV.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY ..............................................................................................                        14
   A. Economic andFinancialAnalyses ...................................................................................                       14
   B. Technical..........................................................................................................................     15
   C. Fiduciary..........................................................................................................................     16
   D. Social................................................................................................................................  17
   E. Environment. EnvironmentalCategory B .......................................................................                            18
   F. Safeguardpolicies............................................................................................................           19
   G. PolicyExceptionsand Readiness.....................................................................................                      19

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background..................................................................................                      20


Annex 2: Major Related Projects .................................................................................................       25

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring.............................................................................                  27

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description.........................................................................................           32

Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................. 41

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements .....................................................................................               42

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ...........................................                                 48

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................               61

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision...........................................................................                73

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits..................................................................................              77

Annex 14: Country at a Glance....................................................................................................       78
Annex 15: MAP IBRD                                                                                                                      80


                                Jamaica: SecondHIV/AIDS Project

I. STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE

A.      Country andSector Issues
1.      EconomicPerformance. Jamaicais the thirdlargest island inthe Caribbean with a
population of 2.7 million. The country's economic performance' has improved steadily since
2001, with the highest GDP annual growth of 2.5% recorded inFY2006/07. The growth was
due to an increaseinforeign and domestic private investment ledby tourism, mining and
agriculture. The annual inflation rate dropped to 6.6% inEy 2006/07 from over 13.2% in
FY2004/05. An estimated 14.3% of Jamaicans still live below the national poverty line. The
2006 Survey of Living Conditions identifies several factors linked to poverty: large households,
female headedhouseholds, inequities in access to health and education services and low
educational attainment. Despite improvements ineconomic performance, Jamaica continues to
face many challenges: high debt, tight fiscal situation (though revenue collections have
improved, they have not reached desired targets while expenditures have not been contained as
planned). Crime and violence continue to pose challenges. Poor education outcomes affect the
country' s competitiveness.
2.      HealthStatus. Jamaicanhealth indicators compare favorably with LatinAmerican
countries as well as middle income countries. The country i s still undergoing the
epidemiological transition with a continued decline ininfectious diseases, maternal and infant
mortality and childhooddiseases and a growth innon-communicable diseases. Leadingcauses
of morbidity and mortality include: neoplasms(cancers), cardiovascular diseases, diabetes,
injuries and HIV/AIDS. The age-group 15-49years has been hardesthit by AIDS and sexually
transmitted infections. They are the secondleading cause of death among the 15-24year age-
group. Despite achievementsinthe health sector, Jamaica i s still facing challenges to achieve
the health MillenniumDevelopment Goals especially with respect to HIV/AIDS.
3.      Statusof the HIV/AIDS Epidemic. Itis estimated that 25,000 (1.5%) of adults aged 15-
49 years are infected with HIV. The gender difference has been narrowing. The majority (65%)
of reported AIDS cases fall within the 20-44 year old age group. The HIV epidemic inJamaica
has features of both a generalized and concentrated epidemic. The prevalence varied across
population groups with a highprevalence among female sex workers (9%) and sexually
transmitted infections clinic attendees (4.6%) in2005; and between 20%-30% among men who
have sex with men (MSM),and prisoners (3.3%) in2006. HIV infection i s also highamong
substance abusers and people confirmedwith tuberculosis. Between 1982 and 2005, the
cumulative number of known AIDS cases was 11,004 with 6,437 reported AIDS deaths. Better
access to antiretroviral (ARV) drugs has helped to extend the lives of AIDS patients and
decreasedthe mortality rate inthe past five years. By early 2007, just over 5,000 children under
the age of 15 years hadbeen orphaned by HIV/AIDS. All 14parishes are affected by the HIV
epidemic but the most urbanized parishes (Kingston, St. Andrew and St. James) have the highest
cumulative number of AIDS cases. Heterosexualtransmission i s reported by 90% of persons
with HIV. An intertwinedset of cultural, economic, social, and behavioral factors are driving


1CountryAssistanceStrategy for Jamaica, April, 2005 andthe CountryAssistanceStrategyProgress Report for
Jamaica, July 19,2007.


                                                     1

the epidemic: risky behaviors such as multiplepartners (50% of men), participation in
commercial and transactional sex and failure to use condoms with non-regular partners (30% of
men and 40% of women), early sexual debut, gender inequity and gender roles, substance abuse,
poverty, unemployment, population movement, stigma and discrimination which keep people
from seeking prevention services.
4.      NationalResponseto the Epidemic. Jamaica has confronted the HIV epidemic
proactively for two decades, steeredby the Government-led NationalHIV/AIDS Program (NHP)
since 1986 and the NationalAIDS Committee (NAC) established in 1988. The national response
hasbeen guided by a series of medium-term HN/AIDS strategic plans, the latest of which was
the 2002-2006 HIV/AIDSNational Strategic Plan (NSP). The Government has recently
completed the new NSP (2007-2012). The new planreviews the NHPunder all the previous
strategic plans, since 1986. The NHPhas covered prevention, treatment, care and support.
Achievements include: implementation of a major behavior change communication programfor
encouraging adoption of safer sexual practices; condom promotion and distribution; voluntary,
counseling and testing (VCT) services which are now available all over the country and provider
initiatedcounseling and testing; prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) with 75%
of HIV-infectedpregnant women and 85% of HIV-exposedinfants accessing anti-retroviral
therapy in 2006 and a dramatic increaseinthe last two years; and expansion of managementof
sexually transmitted infections, opportunistic infections and anti-retroviral therapy reaching 34%
of those requiringtreatment. Inthe legalcontext, achievements include the approval of the
NationalHIVIAIDS policy by Cabinet (2004) and Parliament (2005) and the Workplace policy
approved by Cabinet in2007. The NHPhasbeen financed by the Government and external
resources of which the largest three were the GlobalFundfor AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
(GRAM), the World Bank andthe UnitedStatesGovernment. Ithas beenclosely coordinated
with all relevant regional institutions.

5.       Challengesinthe NationalResponseto HIV/AIDS. Jamaica still faces a number of
challenges. There are still inaccurate perceptions about HIV/AIDS;2risky behavior persists; and
coverage of services is inadequate (in2006 only 34% of people needing antiretroviral treatment
received it)3.Other needs include: capacity strengthening of the health care delivery system in
the areas o f human resources (shortageof doctors, nurses, laboratory staff, social workers and
counselors); diagnostic capacity (equipment and skil1s);strengthening technical managementof
programs including the needto integrate HIV/AIDS services into the existing health and family
planning services; strengthening institutionalsystems (management, monitoring and evaluation,
procurement and financial management); and fostering an enabling environment that will reduce
stigma and discrimination includinghomophobia and safeguardhuman rights. Finally, the
Government has estimated that a substantial increaseinfunding i s neededto scale up the
program to achieve universal access to HlV prevention, treatment and care for those who need it.

6.       The NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (NSP), 2007-2012. Confrontingthe
HIV/AIDS epidemic is still a highpriority for the Government which has recently updatedthe


 Only 36% of youngmenand40% of young women correctly identifiedways of preventingthe sexualtransmission
of HIV accordingto the KnowledgeAttitudes PracticesandBehavior (KAPB) 2004 Survey.
 Furthermore, there are delays inseekingtreatmentandadherenceto treatment is a problem- a 2006 survey shows
a 95 to 100%levelof adherenceinonly 55% of AIDS cases undertreatment, an 80% to 94% levelof adherencein
37%, andless than 80% in 8% of AIDS cases underARV.


                                                    2

NSPfor the period2007-2012. The NSPreviewed and assessedthe overall performance of the
national HIV/AIDS program since its inception. It summarized the achievementsand challenges
of the previous strategic plan and mediumterm plans for HIV/AIDS. The new NSP was
developed through a participatory consultative process that involvedcivil society, the private
sector, people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), youth, representativesof marginalized groups,
service providers, community leaders and policymakers and was peer-reviewed by the UNAIDS
team (AIDS Strategy and Action Plan) basedat the Bank. It i s due to be approved by Cabinet. It
outlines the vision, goal, and guidingprinciples for the national responseto the epidemic. The
estimated cost of the NationalHIVETIProgram for the period 2007 to 2012 i s US$201.2
million. Available current and planned resources are US$65.7 million. The Government will
continue to seek additional funding from external partners to fill the financing gap of 67%. It
will inthe meantime, allocate the funds available to the highest priority interventions that will
contribute more directly and efficaciously to reducing the spread of HIV and mitigating its
impact.

7.      The NSPidentifies four priority areas: (a) ImprovedAccess to Quality Prevention
Services; (b) Comprehensive Treatment Care and Support Services that include: screening and
diagnostic services, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), PMTCT, antiretroviral treatment
with a focus on strengthening adherenceto treatment, managementof sexually transmitted
infections, opportunistic infections including tuberculosis, post exposureprophylaxis,
psychological and social support; (c) EnablingEnvironment and HumanRights: fostering an
environment that protects human rights and empowers people to make healthy decisions; and (d)
Empowerment and Governanceincluding institutionalization of financing and management
arrangements for the program, operationalizing the "Three Ones" principle4, and expanding the
involvement of all stakeholdersinthe public sector, civil society and private sector.

B.      Rationalefor Bank Involvement

 8.     Jamaica is committed to sustaining its responseto the epidemic and needs support from
external partners to help finance its NSP. The Bank funding will complement the Government's
own funding and that of other key external funding agencies, principle among which i s the
GFATM. Itwill buildon support providedunder the ongoing Bank-funded pr~ject.~The project
contributed to the Government's program by supporting: prevention programs targeting high-risk
groups and the general population; strengthening of treatment, care and support; and
strengthening of the country's multi-sectoral capacity to respond to the epidemic. This new
project will provide funding for key areas of prevention, treatment and care interventions not
covered by the funding from the GFATMand complement initiatives supported by bilateral
donors and UNagencies. Inparticular, the Bank funding will strengtheninstitutional, program
managementcapacity and health care delivery system and provideinstitutionalstrengthening for
the multi-sectoral responseto the epidemic through enhancing the role of non-health line
ministries, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) that reachparticular vulnerable and/or highrisk
groups, and the private sector.



4One national coordinating authority for HIV/AIDS,one national framework and one monitoring and evaluation
system.
 The JamaicaHIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project due to close on May 31,2008.


                                                      3

9.      Bank support is also critical for sustaining managementand delivery of the national
HIVIAIDS program. Inparticular, the ongoing Bank-financed project, scheduledto close on
May 31,2008, funded criticalpositions at the NationalHIVISTIControl Program (NHP) inthe
regions and in selectedline ministries due to previous budget constraints that limited
establishment of new positions. The Government has initiated action to absorb the staff
positions over a four-year period, starting with the new fiscal year inApril, 2008. The new
project will help with the transition by initially paying for some of the positions.

10.     The Bank also brings to bear the accumulated technical experience inthe Caribbean and
the rest of the world inimplementation of HIV/AIDSprojects as well as lessons drawn from
assessments of the projects (including the multi-agency review of the Caribbean HIV/AIDS
program ledby the Bank in2005). Ithas a comparative advantage inensuring a multi-sectoral
responsethrough project funding and its overall cross-sectoral country dialogue and its role as a
convener of donor and multi-lateralagencies. The Bank also contributes to strengthening
implementation through its support for strengthening country systems for improved governance
and accountability, transparent fiduciary management, monitoring and evaluation.

C.      HigherLevel ObjectivesTo WhichThe ProjectContributes

11.      Supportfor CAS Objectives. The ProgressReport (datedJuly 19,2007) of the CAS
for FYO6-09 states that the broad thrust of the CAS remains relevant. The project i s consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Jamaica dated April, 2005 covering the period
FY 2006-09. The CAS i s aligned with the Government's Medium-term Socio-Economic Policy
Framework (2004-2009). The MTEFreaffirms the Government's commitment to achieving the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). The CAS i s based on three mutuallyreinforcing
pillars: (i)accelerating inclusive economic growth; (ii)  improving human development and
opportunity; and (iii) crime prevention and reduction. One of the goals under Pillar Two, to"
improve access to prevention, treatment, care and support services for people living with
HIVIAIDS (PLWHA)" addresses one of the MDG's, "halting andreversing the spreadof
HIV/AIDS by 2015".

D.      ComplementingOtherExternalSourcesofFunding

12.     The two principal external financing sources are the GFATMand the World Bank.
UnitedNations (UN)agencies and bilateral donors6are also providing support to the
Government's HIV/AIDS program. Fundingfrom the GFATMand the Bank will be applied ina
complementary manner. A significant share of funding from GFATMi s dedicated to anti-
retroviraldrugs (60%). There are differences inthe focus of support to the key priority areas
funded, notably, inthe case of provision of ARV drugs, biomedical waste management, support
to key non-health public sector ministries, and strengthening the capacity of the health services
delivery system. Harmonizingthe financing of activities of these two sources will be an ongoing
process during project implementation inorder to avoid duplication. The Project Coordination
Unit(PCU) preparesthe annualwork planfor the NHPfunded bythe World Bank, GFATMand
other external partners. It also prepares the procurement plans and financial statements for both
the World Bank and the GFATM, makingit a de facto pooled funds approach. Ongoing

 They include:UNESCO, UNAIDS, PAHO(WHO), UNICEF, UNFPA, L O , USAID,EC andJICA (seeAnnex 2).


                                                   4

collaboration and exchangeof informationbetween the Bank and the GFATMwill continue and
whenever possiblejoint annual reviews will be organized, though this may pose a logistical
challenge inJamaica and the general Caribbean setting.

11.     PROJECTDESCRIPTION

A.      LendingInstrument

13.     The lending instrument proposed for the project will be a Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
of US$10million with co-financing of US$ 1.54 million from the Government.

B.      ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveandKey Indicators

14.     The project development objectives are to assist inthe implementation of the
Government's NationalHIV/AIDS Programby supporting the: (i)           deepening of prevention
interventions targeted at high-riskgroups and the general population; (ii) increasing of access to
treatment, care and support services for infected and affected individuals; and (iii)strengthening
of program managementand analysis to identify priorities for buildingthe capacity of the health
sector to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and other priority health problems.

15.     Intermediate indicators will monitor the progress in achieving prevention and treatment
targets and the availability of timely inputs that contribute to achievement of the project impact
and outcomes (see Annex 3) in support of the goal of the national program as specified inthe
NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2007-2012 -- to halt and begin to reversethe spreadof
HIVIAIDS as well as STIs by providinguniversal access to prevention, care andtreatment.

C.      ProjectComponents

16.     Component1:Prevention(US$3.34 million). Preventioninterventions are ahigh
priority of the NHP and needto be scaledup dramatically to halt and reversethe spread of the
epidemic. Various implementing entities will intensifyprevention activities: the Ministry of
Health and the Regional HealthAuthorities, four non-health line ministries, CSOs and the
private sector.

17.     SubcomDonent l(a): Prevention Activities by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the
Regional HealthAuthorities (US$2.99 million). This subcomponent will strengthenthe capacity
of MOHand the Regional HealthAuthorities (RHAs) to providetechnical guidance for the
national responseto HIV/AIDS and to deliver HIV/AIDS related services for prevention through
the health care system. Activities financed will include: (a) Supportfor behavior change
communication (BCC)interventions targeting at-risk groups (CSWs,MSMs, in and out of school
youth, prison inmates, drug users) and the general population. The activities aim at
dissemination of information for adoption of safer sexualpractices. Fundingwill be providedfor
development of BCC materials, mass media campaigns, peer education, and outreach; (b)
Expansion of STImanagementand blood safety for preventing HIV transmission; (c) Expansion
of VCT services for preventing of HIV transmission, scaling up treatment and care and
expansion of PMTCT Services. These will include innovative approachesfor hard to reach and



                                                   5

vulnerable populations, including walk-in and mobile VCT services, and expand provider
initiatedcounseling and testing. Fundingwill cover training, test kits reagents and supplies,
laboratory support, mentioned inComponent 2, and minor refurbishment of VCT rooms; and (d)
Promotionof increasedcondom use. Support will be providedfor procurement and distribution
of condoms and lubricants that will not be financed through the GFATM. Female condoms will
be donatedby UNFPA.

18.     Subcomponent 1(b): Prevention Activities by the Non-HealthLine Ministries (US$0.30
million). Strengthening prevention requires scaling up the contributionof the non-health line
ministries to make the national responsetruly multi-sectoral. Four key line ministries have been
identifiedbecause they can reach important segments of vulnerable and/or at risk population
groups through their official mandates: (a) Education7; (b) Labour and Social Security; (c)
Tourism; and (d) National Security. These ministries implemented some HIV/AIDSprevention
activities under the first project. They will receive technical support and funding to scale up
their activities more strategically basedon mediumterm plans. This subcomponent will finance:
annual work programs of three of the four line ministries that include implementing workplace
HIV/AIDS policies, BCC, condom distribution and promotion, and advocacy to reduce
HIV/AIDS stigmatization and discrimination; and, co-finance staffing costs of the focal points of
the non-health line ministries. The national programwill finance training, technical and material
support for focal points, program officers and their respective ministerialHIV/AIDS
Committees.

19.     Subcomponent 1(c): Prevention Activities by Civil Society Organizations and the Private
Sector (US$0.05 million). This project will finance training and the position of the Civil Society
Organizations (CSOs) Coordinator inthe PCUwho will provide capacity buildingfor CSOs. The
GFATMwill bethe mainfinancing sourcefor CSOs through demand-driven "subprojects" that
will target interventions for: (a) Youth, including sexuality education, risk assessment, behavior
modeling, and leadership training; (b) Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs), includingbetter access
to counseling and health care, skills development for alternative income generation, referralto
agencies such as housing and drug addiction/prevention and support for increasedinvolvement
of club operators and the tourism services inrisk reduction interventions including increased
condom use; (c) MSMsby continuing training of trainers on risk reduction among the MSMs,
referral to STI/HIV test and treatment along with adherenceand positive prevention; (d) Adult
Males (19-39 years), including scaling up existing experiencesinreachingkargeting male
dominated occupations such as taxi and bus drivers, the police force and auto-mechanics for risk
reduction interventions. The project will also provide works skills training for economically
vulnerable populations to assistthem inentering thejob market. The GFATMhas allocated
US$5 million to fund CSOs which will allow a dramatic scaling up of the response. This support
will encouragecommunity-based activities to strengthenprevention work inrural and inurban
areas and work with orphaned and HIV/AIDS affected children. The NHPhas developed an
organizational structure with standardoperating proceduresfor engaging CSOs and the private
sector. Selection criteria are detailed inthe Project Operations Manual and include fiduciary and
administrative procedures, demonstratedconsultation and participatory processes to mobilize and
empower target communities, and a systemfor provision of technical support to the CSOs.

'The  GFATMwill bethe principal funding source for the Ministry of Education and will alsofinance the position
of a Program Officer inthe Ministryof Labor in charge of implementingworkplace policies.


                                                       6

20.     Component 2: Treatment, Care and Support (US$1.81 million). This component will
provide financing to support the efforts to enhancethe following services: (a) Laboratory
Diagnostic Services. Refurbishing and equipping the TB Laboratory and the provision of
reagents and supplies to support scaling up diagnosis and treatment of TB patients and the
detection of HIV inthis group; (b) Training for staff inthe use of new equipment; (c)
Refurbishing of select Treatment Sites as well as the procurement of drugs (not funded through
the GFATM), nutritional supplements, substitution infant feeding formula, contraceptive
methods and reagents and testing supplies for diagnosing and monitoring HIV; (d) Refurbishing
of Regional Laboratories to facilitate decentralization of laboratory services; (e) Training of
staff, and health care workers incomprehensive managementof HIV/STI/TB,PMTCT,
counseling and testing, Public HealthManagement and BCC and, (f) Curriculum development
to support training activities.

21.     Component 3: Strengthening InstitutionalCapacity for Legislative Reform, Policy
Formulation, ProgramManagement, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$4.26 million).
SubcomDonent3 (a): Policy Formulationfor an EnablingLegal and Regulatory Environment and
Human Rights(US$0.41 million). The new NSPemphasizesthe need for a supportive legal and
regulatory environment. The project will provide technical assistance in support of the changes
to the legislative framework that have been recommendedby the legislative review including
updating of the Public Health Act to deal with new health challenges such as HIV/AIDS and
advocacy for further legislative and policy reformto address stigma and discrimination.

22.     Subcomponent 3 (b): Program Management (US$3.30 million). This subcomponent will
continue to support the coordination and management of the Government's NationalHIV/AIDS
Program. The project will co-finance staff costs for the technical andfiduciary functions of the PCU
andthe RHAsin supportingthe coordination and managementof the Borrower's NHP. This includes
reviewing work programs from line ministries and proposals from civil society implementing
agencies, monitoring and evaluating program progress, and training staff of the PCU, Line
Ministries, and CSOs infiduciary functions.

23.     Subcomponent 3 (c): Monitoring andEvaluation (US$0.54 million). The M&EUnitof
the NHPPCUinthe M O H i s implementing a comprehensive monitoring system. The objectives
of the M&E systemare to provide continuous feedback to monitor the trends inthe epidemic and
to enhancethe delivery of HIV services. The NHPwill emphasize: (a) staffing, training and
building the capacity of the M&EUnit; (b) an informationtechnology (IT) platformthat will: (i)
integrate the multiple sources of information and implementing partners; and (ii)     complete the
procurement of equipment, maintaining the software, training staff and rolling out the Laboratory
Information Systemto the regions; (c) technical assistance, equipment and training to strengthen
the M&E systemand the decision-making process; (d) harmonizing the information flow from
multiple data sources for impact, outcomes, outputs, and inputs; i.e., biologicalHNsurveillance;
behavioral HIV surveillance; (e) conducting surveys, surveillance and researchktudies on special
populations to informthe national response; (f) integrating the five national and sub-national
HIV databases to enableevaluating the impact of the nationalprogram; and (g) buildlocalM&E
capacity. Most of the indicators for monitoring this project are drawn from the national




                                                  7

indicators agreedby all partners and usedfor reporting to the UnitedNations Special Sessionon
HIV/AIDS (UNGASS).

24.     Component 4: Health Sector Development Support (US$2.10 million).
Subcomponent 4 (a) BiomedicalWaste Management (US$2.0 million). The project will support
upgrading and improvedmanagementof the biomedicalwaste management system. This will
include: upgrading medical waste treatment facilities; waste disposal supplies and materials in all
health regions for enabling proper segregationpractices. Interim storage facilities to support the
regional collection and alternative treatment systems will be financed by the Government
through the NationalHealthFund. The project will also finance capacity building activities:
develop and disseminate medical waste managementtraining material; train healthcare workers
inmedical waste managementandpost exposureprophylaxis, includingregional `Training of
Trainers' workshops; sharebestpractices; and, train staff for operation and maintenanceof new
equipment. Finally, the project will finance preparation of facility specific waste management
plan, including the creation of a systemto support health care facilities inthe documentation of
infectious waste generation on a continuous basis.

25.     Subcomponent 4 (b). Diagnostic Capacity Assessment of the Health Sector KJS$O.lO
million). The 2004 national report preparedby the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) noted
that Jamaica i s behind in attaining some of the MDG2015 target values. Critical challenges to
the capacity of the health sector to deliver quality services are the lack of adequatenumbers of
staff inall professional categories, an underfinancedpublic sector, crowded hospitals and
underusedhealth centers, periodic shortages of medical supplies, and pockets of violence in
certain communities impeding access to health services and constraining the movement of health
personnel. This component will finance a comprehensive assessment of the obstacles that limit
the capacity of the health sector to deliver quality health care efficiently to those needing it most.
The investment and operational cost of the actions identifiedinthe assessment will be calculated
and options proposed for financing the cost from national and external sources.

D.      LessonsLearnedand Reflectedinthe Project Design

26.     There are a number of lessons learned from implementing the ongoing Bank-financed
Jamaica HIV/AIDS Prevention and ControlProject, as well as from other Bank and donor-
financed projects throughout the Caribbean'.

(a) The ongoing project had a slow start mainly due to unclear financial management and
procurement procedures. Inparticular, differences between country and Bank procurement
guidelines took time to resolve. These problems were subsequently addressedthrough a
proactive process involving close coordination between the Bank and the project. With the
experience gained by the M O Hteam, this project will take advantage of greater flexibilities in
Bank procedures. The Government continues to review its own proceduresespecially for
procurement.

(b) Other challengesexperiencedrelate to slow involvement of non-healthline ministries, CSOs
and the private sector inexecution of priority interventions especially for prevention. This

* TheBankled a multi-agency reviewof the CaribbeanHIV/AIDS Programin 2005.


                                                   8

project will builduponthe lessons from the first project to strengthenthe procedures and
technical guidance to these critical stakeholdersto ensure their greater participation especially in
reaching at-risk and vulnerable groups.

(c) Overall institutional and implementation arrangements are critical for a multi-sectoral
responseinline with the NSP. Execution of the previous project and other Government
HIV/AIDSefforts underscoredthe importance of the "Three Ones". Thisproject will support
the strengthening of the NationalAIDS Committee as the "one coordinating national body" to
enable it to providethe policy guidance. The project will also support execution of the NSP,
"the one national strategic plan" with one "M&E plan".

(d) Prevention. The number one issueposited bythe NSPis increasing prevention activities and
improving strategic focus. This i s consistent with the experience in other Caribbean countries
and globally. Activities that lead to behavior change needto be more skillfully designed and
intensified to respond to the complex socio-economic factors that are driving the epidemic such
as multiple partners, commercial and transactional sex and poverty. This project will contribute
through a two pronged strategy: targeting interventions at highrisk groups and implementing
non-targeted activities for the general population.

(e) Stigma and discrimination inJamaica, as inmost Caribbean countries, i s still a major
impediment to the responseto the epidemic as it prevents people from seeking care and
caregivers from giving appropriate care. The project will provide technical assistancethrough
support to efforts to foster an enabling environment through BCC as well as legal andregulatory
reforms and policy advocacy.

(0The fight againstHIV/AIDSrequires amulti-sector responsewith buy-infromleadership in
Government, key non-health line ministries, the private sector, and participation of a cross-
cutting range of stakeholders: CSOs, the private sector, community level, household level,
religious groups, professional groups and PLWHA. The project will greatly scale up the role and
capacity of non-health line ministries, CSOs, and the private sector which were activities under
the first project that were not developed pro-actively.

(g) The health systemstill requires considerable strengthening to enable it to cope with the
increaseddemands for prevention, treatment and care brought on by the HIV/AIDS epidemic:
improvingphysical facilities, diagnostic capacity, and increasing the number and skills of staff.
Basedon the experience of the first project, this project will refurbish treatment sites and train
health workers as indicated under Component 2 and finance a comprehensive assessment to
identify and solve the most urgent bottlenecks in service delivery.

(h) The fight against HIV/AIDS is expensive andJamaicaneeds additional resourcesto sustain
the momentum it has built. Along with this, it i s critical for the NHP to be institutionalized
through the establishment of staff positions on the regular public payroll. The Government will
needto continue to keep HIV/AIDS as a priority inits expenditure plans as it has done inthe
past to ensure that the HIV/AIDS responsei s sustained.




                                                 9

(i) itisimportanttonotethatthereisnoproven"production function" inrespondingto
   Finally,
HIV/AIDS inacomplex epidemic such as the one inJamaica. Researchwill be important to
continue to identify those areas that contribute the most to addressingthe epidemic. The project
will support M&Eto ensurethat the Government continuously adjusts the programto the
changing nature of the epidemic.

E.     AlternativesConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection

27.    The first alternative considered was to have no follow-on project. The Bank-funded
Jamaica HIV/AIDS Prevention and ControlProject i s scheduledto close on May 31,2008. The
CAS stresses the threat of HIV/AIDSto the country's development prospects. This alternative
was rejected. The second alternative considered was to combine a health sector intervention and
a repeaterproject into one operation. This alternative was rejected because the broader needs of
the health sector will be better addressedin a separatehealth sector programand will require
diagnostic work that will take some time to complete. The Government was anxious to avoid a
gap infinancing of the HIV/AIDS response and requestedthat preparation of the follow-on
project be expedited. A third alternative would have beento usethe option of additional
financing. This option was rejected as it would have restricted the implementation periodto
three years and the Government team and the Bank task teamjudged a four year period more
appropriate. The selectedalternative will be a specific investment loan that will buildupon the
successfulimplementation of the first HIV/AIDS Project.

111.   IMPLEMENTATION

A.     PartnershipArrangements

28.    The Jamaica NSP i s funded by the Government and anumber of external agencies. The
GFATMand the Bank provide the most significant levels of funding. Other partners, especially
the United Nations Agencies and bilateraldonors also provide technical support and some
fundingfor specific interventions. All the agencies provide their funding through the NHP. The
project will not have specific co-financing from any other partner. The expandedHIV/AIDS
theme group provides a regular forum for coordination. Inaddition, partnerships have been
strengthenedaroundkey thematic areas. Section IB, above describes how the two main external
financing sources (Bank and GFATM) will complement each other as well as the contributions
being made by the other bilateraland multilateraldevelopment partners. The project design
supportsthe strengthening of partnership between the key stakeholders:the MOH, non-health
line ministries, civil society organizations, the private sector, and external funding agencies.
Partnershipswith the GFATM, bilateral donors and UNagencies will include: implementation
basedon one annual work plan of the NHP; regular informationexchangehpdates, harmonized
technical assistanceon specific thematic areas e.g. education and coordinated implementation
reviews/supervision missions whenever possible, though this may presentlogistical challenges.

B.      Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements

29.     InstitutionalArrangements. The following institutions will bekey to the successful
implementation of the project: The Councilfor Health and Social Development (COHSOD)



                                                  10

reporting to the Cabinet will be responsible for setting policy, overall coordination, and
monitoring and evaluating the performance of the national HIV/AIDS program. The Ministry of
Health (MOH) will be the Executing Agency through The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)of
the NationalHIV/STIProgram. The PCU will coordinate activities and providetechnical and
fiduciary support to the implementing entities. Executionof project activities will be handledby
divisions of the MOH, the four Regional HealthAuthorities, four non-health line ministries,
CSOs and the private sector.

30.      ImplementationArrangements. The project will be coordinatedbythe PCUwithin the
NationalHIV/STIProgram (NHP) of MOH. The PCUconsists of an experienced team of
professionals that have coordinated the technical and fiduciary activities of the first HIVIAIDS
project. The staff hasbeen trained inWorld Bank procedures, has performed satisfactorily under
the first project and i s expectedto continue performing well under the follow on project. The
Unitis headedbya Senior MedicalOfficer, who managesacore staff that includes the
coordinators for the project components and subcomponents, an M&Eofficer, a financial
manager and a procurement manager and their supporting administrative staff. The fiduciary
unitalso managesthe grant funds fromthe GFATM. Most of the PCUstaff hasbeenpaidout of
donor funds, including the first World Bank loan. The processto convert some of these positions
into permanent establishment posts has been initiatedwith the intended outcome of creating an
institutionalized and sustainablecore group of professionals to coordinate and support the
implementation of the national HIV/AIDSProgram.

31.      ImplementingEntities. Four types of entities will implement project activities: The
MOHthrough its centralized departments andthe four decentralized RHAs;Four key non-health
line ministries: Education, Tourism, Entertainment and Culture, Labour and Social Security, and
NationalSecurity, Civil Society entities including the NGO sector with Community Based
Organizations (CBOs), churches and other FaithBased Organizations (FBOs); and the private
sector through the Jamaica Business Council, privatecompanies and the media.

32.      The implementation strategy is detailed inthe Project Operations Manual and is
summarized inAnnex 6. Implementation of project activities will be precededby the elaboration
of annual work plans for the public sector entities and by proposals for the civil society entities.
The Government Ministries will prepare annual work plans which are aligned with the
Government annual budgets. CSOs will be funded through a demand-driven process basedon
the systemthat has been put inplace under the ongoing Bank-financed project. A consolidated
annual work plan will be preparedby the PCU and reflected inthe MOH's annual budget for
submission to the Ministryof Finance and the Public Service (MOFPS). The work plan will
include the MOH's own work plan, plans of other Line Ministries and a budget line for
subprojects of civil society groups and the private sector. Annex 6 contains a fuller description
of the institutionaland implementation arrangements includingeligibility criteria, selection
procedures and funding mechanismsfor civil society and the private sector. The Project
Operations Manualwill contain a detailed description of implementation strategies for line
ministries, CSOs and the private sector.

33.     FinancialManagementandProcurementArrangements. The PCUfinanced under
the first HIV/AIDS project is familiar with the Bank procedures. It will be responsible for



                                                 11

financial managementand procurement. Latest financial managementand procurement
procedures will be applied now that there is more capacity within the PCU and within the public
administration ingeneral. Detailed guidelines on the financial and procurement management
including accountability and transparencyprovisions are contained inAnnexes 7 and 8.

C.       Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomeshtesults

34.      A fulltime M&Eofficer with a supporting staff within the PCUwill be responsible for:
(i)maintaining the overall M&Eplanincluding manuals, implementation procedures, tools, data
flowcharts and a budget; (ii) strengthening the monitoring systems to ensure sound output and
process monitoring; and (iii) validating data by randomsampling recording and aggregating
processes and by examining large variations inhistoricaltrends. Evaluation of the outcome and
the impact of project performance on achieving the development objectives will be done through
periodic behavioral surveys of high-riskgroups, household surveys of the general population,
workplace surveys of a random sample of companies, and health facility surveys and specific
research. Baseline markers and targets will be established for measuring progress.
Outcome/impact indicators are listed inAnnex 3. Most of the indicators are drawn from the
country's national M&Eplan and are the basis for the country's regular reporting to UNGASS.
Monitoringprogramperformance and productivity of service providers will be done on an
ongoing basis using managementreporting mechanisms. Service statistics will be collected
regularly at the points of service and reported on a monthly basis to document progress being
made and to show variations that occur. Input and process indicators are listed inAnnex 3.

D.       Sustainability

35.      The following factors will contribute to program sustainability after project completion:

(a) An enabling policy and legalenvironment with strong political support and leadership for
dealing with HIV/AIDS;

(b) Government's willingness and ability to sustainpublic awarenessof HIV/AIDS issues;

(c) Implementation sustainability: development of broad ownership and a strong institutional
coordination mechanismfor the expandedresponseto the pandemic and the involvement of
other key stakeholders (line ministries, NGOs, FBOs, localcommunities, etc.);

(d) Converting some of the PCUpositions into permanent establishment posts to create an
institutionalized and sustainablecore group of professionals to coordinate and support the
implementation of the national HIV/AIDS Program;

(e) Financial sustainability will include Government budget allocations to finance the national
HIV/AIDSprogram and continued support from external sources especially the GlobalFund;
and.

(f) Allocatingresourcesavailable for HIV/AIDSto the highestpriority interventions.




                                                 12

   E.       Critical Risksand Possible Controversial Aspectsfor the Proposed Project


                          Descriptionofrisk                            Mtiptionmeasures


Project design    +   Expenditures duringthe first            + The new project defines ex ante four
                    project for non-health line                key non-health ministries that will
                    ministries and for CSOs accounted          develop their strategy, annual work
                    for only 8% of total project               plans and budgets. CSOs will be
                    expenditures.                          s   funded by the GFATMgrant. The              M
                                                               project will provide technical support to
                                                               ensure the participation by the business
                  +   The first project has been               sector and CSO community through

                    criticized for its centralized             demand-driven subprojects and

                     approach and has been perceived           disbursements against approved plans

                     outside the MOH as a MOH                  and contracts.

                    project rather than a multi-sectoral      +  The four decentralized Regional
                    project.                                   Health Authorities will be responsible
                                                               for execution of most o f the project
                                                               activities.
Stigma and        +    The country's legal framework          +  A strong emphasis on IECBCC will
Discrimination       remains inadequate. However,              mitigate the level of stigma and
and Human            several reforms have been                 discrimination.
Rights               launched over the past years.            +  Under the Project's third component,
                     Major achievements include the            the project will provide technical
                     National HIV/AIDS Policy                  assistancefor reviewing for drafting a
                     approved by Cabinet (2004) &              new Public Health Act that will include
                     Parliament (2005) and the National        the rights of people living with
                     HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy             S                                             S
                                                               HIV/AIDS and other vulnerable
                     submitted in 2003 to and approved         populations, including children affected
                  +  by Cabinet inMarch 2007.                  by HIV/AIDS, giving them full
                       An Amendment to the Public              equality and dignity under the law,
                     Health Act based on a review of           without stigma or discrimination.
                     existing legislation and for the
                     purpose of repealing outdated
                     legislation is beingdrafted.
Implementation    The first HIV/AIDS project invested         +  The Government has already initiated
capacity          inthe skills development of aproject         a process of institutionalizing the
sustainability    unitto coordinate thenational                programby establishing the requisite
                  response. The challenge is to retain         posts and other activities inthe
                  this staff.                              S   Government's establishment in a            M
                                                               phased manner over the medium-term
                                                               to ensure sustainability of the national
                                                               program.

Financial              Untilnow a significant shareof         +  Continuing efforts to secure external
sustainability         the Jamaica HIV/AIDS program            fundingfor sustainingthe program.
                       has been financed mostly with
                       external funds. The GOJ may not     s                                              s
                       be able to assume full financial
                       responsibility utilizing its own
                       resources for the national



                                                         13

                                                                       Mitigation measures



                   this project.                     I
Financial      +   The Regional Health Authorities           +     A complete financial management
management       may not have robust financial               assessmentof the financial management
                 management and accounting                   capacity at the RHA level has been
                 practices, specifically,                    conducted. Strengthening o f the RHA
                 maintenance of appropriation           M    financial management will be included in    M
                  accounts, financial reporting and          the project.
                 internal auditing.


Procurement    +   Compliance with both Bank and             +     The Government has indicated that it
                 national procurement procedures             will review its own procurement
                  could potentially delay project            thresholds within the next fiscal year to
                 implementation.                        S    address some o f the current bottlenecks.   M
                                                            The Bank team will guide the Government
                                                             team intaking advantage of flexibilities in
                                                             Bank procurement procedures
Social and                                                   +     The current HIV/AIDS project i s
environmental  management program may not be                 supporting the installation of a biomedical
safeguards     upgraded fully to cope with the              waste plant to serve the south-east region
               current challenges.                           (accounts for 60% of the medical waste
                                                             generated on the island). The medical
                                                        S   waste management plan has been updated
                                                            inpreparation for this project and an        M
                                                             action plan has been agreed with priority
                                                             actions identified for financing. Despite
                                                            these actions, additional investments will
                                                             still be needed by the Government to fully
                                                             address the needs of the country.
OverallRisk:                                                                                            M
RiskRating-H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Moderate Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk).

   F.     Loadcredit Conditions and Covenants

   Conditionsof effectiveness:
          NIA
   Conditionsof disbursement:
          NIA

   IV.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY

   A.     Economic and FinancialAnalyses

   36.    There are compelling argumentsfor public intervention to addressHIVIAIDS inJamaica.
   BecauseHIV/AIDS is a communicable diseasewhich inflicts negative externalities on society, a


                                                      14

purely private responsei s unlikely to be optimum socially. Information regarding HIV
transmission i s imperfect; HIV makes people vulnerable to other infectious diseases including
tuberculosis; some individuals (spouses, newborns) cannot control their own risk to HIV
infection, which are all reasonsfor intervention. Prevention/early intervention i s necessaryto
reduce the health costs of treatment and mitigation inlatter years. Jamaica faces macroeconomic
challenges including a high debt stock. Resources available to combat HIV/AIDS are limited
and needto be focused on the most cost-effective interventions.

37.     Jamaicahas selected a range of internationally recognized cost-effective interventions for
implementing its strategic HIV/AIDS plan for the period 2007 to 2012. They include
interventions for high-risk groups as well as the general population; voluntary testing and
counseling, prevention of mother-to-child transmission, STImanagement and antiretroviral
treatment. The expandedprogram covering antiretroviral drugs (not available inthe last Bank-
financed project) was madepossible through Jamaica's successful application for grant funds
from the GFATM. Inthe thirdroundof the GFATM, Jamaica securedUS$23.3 million. These
funds together with the Bank loan of US$15 million (later reduced to US$10.6 million) enabled
the Government to expand its program. With the new HIV/AIDS strategic plan, the Government
has selected the priority interventions for a comprehensive approach including prevention,
treatment, care and support. Funding available includes the US$6.9 million balance from the
thirdround grant andUS$44.2 million recently approved under round7 of GFATM(2009-
2013). The availability of the grant over the next five years reduces the recurrent cost
implication arising from the Bank financed project which i s designedto complement the
GFATMgrant. The Government will provide US$1.55 million to cover the incrementalcapital
and recurrent costs. The Government has also initiated a process of increasing budgetary
allocations to the MOHfor staff costs and other related expensesin abidto initiate medium-term
sustainability of the responseto the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

B.      Technical

38.     The Government continues to sustainits commitment to confronting the HIV epidemic
with the new multi-sector NSP 2007-2012. The plan was peer reviewed by the UNAIDS/World
Bank AIDS Strategic and Action Plans (ASAP) team and was found to be technically sound.
The plan identifies the factors that are driving the epidemic: risky behaviors (multiple sex
partners, early initiation of sex, involvement intransactional sex, non-use of condoms, low
perception of personal risk and commercial sex); economic conditions (including highlevels of
unemployment and poverty); illegal drug trade; tourism and movement of people; and, social
culturalfactors especially stigma and discrimination (including a high level of homophobia that
drive those most-at-risk underground); gender dimensions that influence prevention options, e.g.,
women are often at risk becausethey are unable to negotiate condom use. Services for
prevention, treatment, care and support have not reacheduniversal coverage. The NSPbuilds
uponthe prior NHP (2002-2006) and all the earlier mediumterm strategic plans. Itreflects
lessons learned inJamaica and globally on what constitutes an appropriate responseto the
HIV/AIDS epidemic.

39.     The NSPselected strategies aim to: decreasestigma and discrimination resulting in
increasedacceptability and uptake of services; strengthenthe multi-sectoral approach through
partnerships which will include improvement of capacity of all stakeholders, resulting in


                                                  15

increasedquantity, quality, availability and access to services; and establish a strong evidence-
basedapproachthat complies with local, regional and international guidelines to informthe local
responsecoupled with a strengthenedM&E systemto pave way for an efficient and sustainable
responseto HIV. Other guiding principles include: equity, e.g., no person shall be denied access
to prevention knowledge, skills and services or treatment, care and support services on the basis
of their real or perceivedHIV status, sexual orientation, gender, age, disability, religion, socio-
economic status, etc.; participation of PLWHA, promotion and protection of human rights,
transparency and accountability, and application of the ILO principles on HIV/AIDS and the
world of work.

40.     The most cost-effective interventions have been selectedto addressthe strategies of the
plan which have been summarized infour priority areas: prevention; treatment, care and support;
enabling environment and human rights; and, empowerment and governance. Specifically, the
project will contribute to the Government's program inthe priority areas of enhancing coverage
and quality of appropriate HIV prevention interventions targeting those at high-risk as well as the
general population; strengthening diagnosis and treatment; reducing stigma and discrimination
associatedwith the disease and promoting and protecting the rights of infected persons; and
improvingthe collection and use of reliable data to guide and monitor programimplementation
and to evaluatethe impact of the program.

C.      Fiduciary

41.     FinancialManagement. A financial managementassessment hasbeen carried out (see
Annex 7 for details). The financial managementaspects of the first project were well managed.
The fiduciary arrangements,both financial managementand procurement under the project, will
be provided by the PCU located within the NationalHIV/STIProgram (NHP), a division of
MOH. The overall financial managementresponsibility under the Project will be coordinated
and exercisedby the Administrative Unitheadedby the Finance and Administrative Officer
assistedby three Finance Officers and two Accounting Assistants. MOWS will issue warrants
covering the budget for the project during the year inquestion. Expenditures incurredthat will
be financed out of the World Bank loan proceedswill be funded out of the designated account to
be opened at a commercial bank. The account under the project will be managedby the PCU.
The RegionalHealthAuthorities will maintain individual accountsthat will be replenished
periodicallyfrom the PCU's account. Expenditures by the non-health line ministries, CSOs and
the private sector will be funded out the PCU's account.

42.     The budget estimates for 2008/2009 include provisions for boththe on-going project and
the proposed project. The eligible items included inthe budget of the proposed project will be
retroactively financed from April 1, 2008 for an amount of US$1.3 million. Counterpart funding
by the Government will beprovidedfor some items under the proposed loan.

43.     Procurement. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out inaccordance
with the World Bank's `Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits' dated
May, 2004 revised October 1,2006; and `Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers' dated May 2004 revised October 1, 2006, and the provisions
stipulated inthe LegalAgreement. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different
procurement methodsor consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated


                                                16

costs, prior review requirements, and timeframe are agreedbetween the Borrower and the Bank
inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will beupdated at least annually or as required
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.
Procurement procedures and StandardBiddingDocuments (SBDs) to be usedfor each
procurement method, as well as modelcontracts for works and goods procured, are presentedin
the project operations manual.

44.     An assessment of the capacity of the implementing agenciesto undertake procurement
was carried out by the Bank inJanuary 2008. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project andthe interaction between the project staff responsible
for procurement and the national procurement authorities. The mission focused on the capacity
of NHP incontracts managementusingbothWorld Bank and Government procedures. The
main findings and recommendations of the assessment are summarized inannex 8.

45.     Thejoint Country Financialand Procurement Assessment (CFAMCPAR) carried out by
the World Bank and Inter American Development Bank in2005 and approved in 2006 identified
a number of weaknessesinthe Jamaican procurement system. Improvements are neededto
render the systemmore transparent. Issuesidentified inthe combined CFAA and CPAR report
pertaining to procurement statistics, supplier's registration, procurement performance and
monitoring and capacity are still actual and relevant. The discrepanciesbetween the national
procurement systemthresholds and the World Bank thresholds for projects inJamaica also
impact negatively on the procurement processes and timeframe.

46.     Based on the procurement assessment, the following corrective measureshave been
agreedto improve procurement processes.

        The operations manualhas beenupdated. It includes a specific chapter on procurement,
        detailing all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow of documentation.
        Regular submission to the Bank of aProcurement Plan beginning with the first plan to
        cover the first eighteen months of the project.
        Training inprocurement provided by the Bank to the PCU including regional staff as
        soon as the loan i s approved with further training to be provided duringthe first year of
        implementation as part of capacity building.
        HiringaProcurement Specialist with acceptable qualifications andexperience to assist
        the South East Regional Health authority.

Inaddition to the above action plan, the procurement thresholds and methodshavebeenset to
mitigate the procurement risk. The overall project risk for procurement i s moderate.

D.      Social

47.     Individualbehavior to a large extent i s shapedby society at large. Annex 4-2 presents a
detailed social assessment based on a literature review and field visits. InJamaica, the early
socialization of male and female children, into specific gender roles, sets them up for behaviors
and decision-making that puts them at highrisk for HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases.
Outside the home, market forces support a diet for sexually explicit media and internet messages
that glamorize unprotected sex, multiple sex partnerships and early sexual initiation. Musical


                                                 17

artists - inparticular dance hall disc jockeys - also glamorize multiple sexual partnerships and
expressinnuendos of violence towards men who have sex with men. The result i s male
adolescentsbeing lured into risk-takingattitudes andbehaviors, which promote "manhood" such
as having many partners, and engaging inunprotected and early sex. Female adolescents on the
other hand are also bombardedby the pressureto engage inearly sex and find less societal
resistanceto actions such as engaging intransactional sex with older men. Life skills messages
supporting responsible behaviors such as delaying sex and using condoms if sexually active are
too few to compete with adult entertainment which i s within the reach of most adolescents.

48.      Poverty, cultural factors and vulnerabilities compromise the ability of women to make
safe choices. Some engage incommercial sex work or inmultiple partnership relationships.
Social and culturalnorms also affect access to risk-reduction interventions for MSMthrough
societal intolerance for this sexual practice. Inaddition, some religious denominations advocate
against access to condoms, especially to minors and yet are not adequatelyengagedin
interventions focused on the benefits of the delayed sex messageto minors and others. Laws
criminalizecertain behaviors which fosters stigma and discrimination. Non-accepting attitudes
and stigma and discrimination of people living with HIV affect the quality of services provided.
There i s a need to focus on the needsof specific groups: youth in school (10-14), out of school
adults, CSWs, MSM, adult males (19-39), and PLWHAs. The project will support interventions
for these groups and will strengthenthe capacity of BCC teams and NGOs as well to ensurethat
services to the general population addressthe social constraints.

E.       Environment. EnvironmentalCategoryB

49.      SafeguardAssessments. The safeguardpolicy, Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP
4.01) i s applicable to this project as some additional biomedicalwaste couldbe generatedby
activities supported by the project. The Government has a bio-medical waste management
systeminplace. A number of investments inequipment and staff training have been financed
under the ongoing Bank financed project. The assessment of the systemhas been updated and
specific areas for strengthening biomedical waste have been identified. Most project activities
are not expectedto generateadverse environmental effects. Some medical waste i s expected to
be generatedduring the administration of HIV tests and inthe managementof treatment for
PLWHA. Inrelation to construction, there will also be small-scale rehabilitation of existing
health care facilities to ensure appropriate provision of HIV/AIDS services. Measuresthat the
Government will take to mitigate potential environmental effects are detailed inAnnex 10. The
project will support the Government inimplementing those measures. Of particular importance
i s the need to ensure that health care workers are adequately trained on medical waste
management. The project will provide support for: standardizing waste managementprocedures
inallhealthcarefacilities; strengthening capacity inhealthcarewaste management, including
training for health care workers inproper waste managementand post exposureprophylaxis; and
upgrading of regional medical waste collection systems and treatment facilities with specialized
medical waste collection vehicles and alternative technology.

50.      Onthe management of environmental risks of small-scale construction works, the
project's coordination unit will incorporate the required Bank environmental guidelines inthe
project's operations manual and standardbiddingdocuments for civil works.



                                                  18

F.       Safeguard policies

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                            Yes            No

  Environmental Assessment (OPBP/GP 4.01)                               [XI              [I
  NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)                                           [I              [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             [I              [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                [I              [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                   [I              [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                 [I              [XI
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                   [I              [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                           [I              [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                             [I              [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)                    [I              [XI


G.       Policy Exceptions and Readiness

51.      No policy exceptions are sought. The Bank has assessedthe Government as beingready
to implement the proposed new project. The Government i s committed to dealing with
HIVIAIDSandhasrecently completed anew NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan2007-2012.
The plan was preparedin a participatory and consultative processinvolving all key stakeholders
within the Government, Civil Society at the community level, and external donors/partners. This
plan builds on the achievementsof the previous plan which covered the period2002-2006. The
institutionalmechanismsfor the national programare inplace with overallpolicy direction
providedby the Cabinet through the COHSOD. The NationalHIVETIProgram within the
MOHcoordinates the program. The project will be executedby the PCUwithin the NHP. The
PCUhas a core of qualified and experienced staff that has managedthe previous Bank-funded
project and other donor projects notable among them, a grant from the GFATM. The
Government counterpart team has ledthe preparation of the project and all key departments
within the implementing agency (MOH), the MOFPS and the PIOJhave beenkey partners in
design of the project. The procedures for execution of the project are inplace and are outlined in
the Operations Manual (updated from the previous Bank financed project's manual). They
specify financial and procurement procedures. The PCU and MOHhave been assessed and
found to have the capacity to managethe project. Necessary capacity buildinghas been planned
for different project stakeholders. A procurement plan to cover the first 18 months has been
prepared. Provisions havebeen madein the budget for the loan and for counterpart funds for the
first fiscal year. The MOHhas an experienced M&Eunit and systeminplace with the capacity
to conduct the M&Erequirements for the NHP. Monitoring and results framework has been
finalized for the project. It i s aligned with the Government's overall M&Eframework and
includes baseline and target values.




                                                   19

                          Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                              Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project
52.    Country Assistance Strategy. The project i s consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Jamaica dated April, 2005 covering the period FY 2006-09. The CAS is
aligned with the Government's Medium-term Socio-Economic Policy Framework (2004-2009).
The MTEFreaffirms the Government's commitment to achieving the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). The CAS i s basedon three mutually reinforcing pillars: (i)     accelerating
inclusive economic growth; (ii) improving human development and opportunity; and (iii)      crime
prevention and reduction. One of the goals under Pillar Two, "to improve access to prevention,
treatment, care and support services for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)" addresses one
of the MDG's "halting and reversing the spreadof HIV/AIDS by 2015".
53.     The CAS Progress Report (July 19,2007) for FY06-09 states that the broad thrust of the
CAS remains relevant. The country's economic performance has improved duringthe CAS
periodwith a GDP growth of 2.5% inFY06/07. However, the economy's performance i s likely
to be impacted by lower exports of two major exports (sugar and bananas) as well as shocks
from natural disasters (hurricane Ivanin2004 i s estimated to have causeddamage worth 8% of
GDP). The country i s still dealing with a number of challenges: highdebt, tight fiscal situation,
poverty, crime and violence and poor educational outcomes. Achieving the health MDGswill
also continue to be a challenge especially with respectto HIV/AIDS. Poverty, social
vulnerability, gender and HIV/AIDS fuel each other inan intricately linked vicious cycle.
54.     The Jamaica Health Sector. Jamaican health indicators compare favorably with Latin
American countries as well as middle income countries. The country is still undergoing the
epidemiological transition with a continued decline ininfectious diseases, maternal and infant
mortality and childhood diseases, and a growth innon-communicable diseases. Leadingcauses
of morbidity and mortality include: neoplasms (cancers), cardiovascular diseases, diabetes,
injuries and HIV/AIDS. The age-group 15-49 years has been hit hardestby AIDS and sexually
transmitted infections. They are the secondleading cause of death among the 15-24year age-
group. Despite achievementsinthe health sector, Jamaica i s still facing challenges and i s
unlikely to achieve the health MillenniumDevelopment Goals especially with respectto
HIV/AIDS.
55.     In 1997the HealthServicesAct establishedfour RHAswhich deliver services through a
network of primary, secondary, and tertiary care facilities consisting of 24 hospitals and 316
health centers. Aproximately 38% of the population utilizes the public sector for ambulatory
care, 57% use the private sector, and 5% useboth sectors. Due to increasedhealth care costs,
more people from middle and upper income groups are accessingthe public health systems,
especially for more costly health care needs like those related to HIV/AIDS. Public sector
hospitals provide more than 95% of hospital basedcare on the island. The private sector
dominates pharmaceutical and diagnostic services and provides about half of the ambulatory
care.




                                                20

56.      Key constraints inthe health sector include: low fundingg; shortage of health personnel
inmanykey categoriesincludingphysicians, nurses," pharmacists,radiographers, community
mental health workers, health educators and public health inspectors due to emigration of
professionals outside the country and to the localprivate sector and dissatisfaction with working
conditions; financialburdenon families paying out of pocket for private medical care; old and
crowded physical facilities and violence impeding access to health services and constraining the
movement of health personnel. A national report prepared by the PIOJnoted that, according to
U.N.targets,Jamaicaisunlikelyto meetthe childmortalityreduction, the maternalhealthgoals
and the target for HIV/AIDS."
57.      Statusof the HIV/AIDSEpidemicinJamaica. Jamaicahas apopulation of 2.7 million
with 1.4 million inthe 15-49 years age-group. Itis estimated that 1.5% of this age-group is
infected with the HIV virus equally divided between men and women. Heterosexual
transmission i s reported by 90% of persons with HIV. There are however, more females infected
inthe 10to 29 age group. The majority (65%) of reported AIDS cases fall within the 20-44-year
old age group. The prevalence varies across different population groups: 9% among female sex
workers in2005,4.6% among people attending sexually transmitted infections clinics in2005,
3.3% among prisoners (2006), and 4.6% among substance abusers. All parishes are affected by
the HIV epidemic but the most urbanized parishes -- Kingston, St. Andrew and St. James -- have
the highest cumulative number of AIDS cases. Between 1982 and 2005, the cumulative number
of known AIDS cases was 11,004 with 6,437 reported AIDS deaths. Better access to
antiretroviral (ARV) drugs seems to have extended the lives of the AIDS patients and decreased
the mortality rate inthe past five years. By early 2007, just over 5,000 children under the age of
15 years hadbeen orphanedby HIV/AIDS. UNICEFestimates that 5,125 children in2003 lost
one or bothparents to HIV/AIDS.

58.      FactorsDrivingthe Epidemic. An intertwinedset of cultural, economic, social, and
behavioral factors are driving the epidemic: early initiation of sexual activity, limited life-skills
and sex education, multiple sex partners, gender inequity and gender roles, men having sex with
men and homophobia, insufficientcondom use, substance abuse: crackkocaine and alcohol,
poverty and unemployment, commercial and transactional sex, population movement, and stigma
and discrimination. A knowledge, attitudes, practices, and behavior (KABP) survey in2004
showed a persistenceof riskybehaviors: multiple partners (50% of men), participation in
transactional sex (20% of men and women), failure to usecondoms with non-regular partners
(30% of men and 40% of women). Riskybehavior i s also evident among adolescents: drop in
the median age of first sex for males and females, multiple partners, and low reported use of
condoms. The risky behavior may be due to myths about HIV and low perception of personal
risk:only 36% of young menand40% of young women were ableto correctly identify ways of
preventing HIV and reject major misconceptions about HIV. A 2005 survey of in-school



 Public sector health expenditures account for 2.4% of GDPor US$90 per capita. An additional 5.1% of GDP or
US$190per capita is spent inthe private sector. Most of the private expenditures are out of pocket payments to
service providers and for pharmaceuticals.
loVacancy rates for registered nurses increased from 17%in 2003 to 26% in 2004 and those for enrolled assistant
nurses and public health nurses increased by 12% and 13%, respectively
11Planning Institute of Jamaica. Millennium Development Goals, Jamaica. April 2004.



                                                       21

adolescents (10-15 years) reported that 12% of those surveyed admitted to being sexually active
and of those 56% had two or more partners and 48% reportedno condom use at last sex.
59.      National Responseto the Epidemic. Jamaica has confronted the HIVepidemic
proactively for two decades, steeredby the Government-led NHP since 1986 and the National
AIDS Committee (NAC) establishedin 1988. The national responsehas also beenguided by
earlier medium-term strategic plans and the NationalHIV/AIDS Policy approved by Parliament
in2005. The responsehasbeenmulti-sectoral andhasincluded: prevention, treatment, care and
support. Ithasbeen financed by the Government and external partners of whom the largest three
were the Global Fund, the World Bank and the United States Government. The Jamaicanational
responsehasbeenclosely coordinated with all relevant regional institutions.

60.      Achievements include: establishment of VCT services inall major health centers with
over 95% of relevant staff trained inVCT protocols and arapid expansion of PMTCT of HIV
with 90% screeningof public sector antenatal clinic attendees. An estimated 75% of HIV
infected pregnant women and 85% of HIV-exposedinfants were accessing anti-retroviral
treatment in2005. Eighteen antiretroviral treatment sites were established and more than 2,500
HIV positive people were on treatment betweenin2006 (a dramatic increasein2 years).
Expansion of the management of sexually transmitted infections i s resulting in a significant
decline inthe incidence of some STIs, such as syphilis and congenital syphilis. There has also
been an expansion of opportunistic infections treatment. Monitoring andEvaluation(M&E)has
been strengthenedwith the establishment of an M&EUnitin2004. Inthe legal environment,
achievements include the approval of the NationalHIV/AIDS policy by Cabinet (2004) and
Parliament (2005) and the Workplace policy approved by Cabinet in2007.

61.      Challengesinthe National Responseto HIV/AIDS. Despite the achievementsto date,
the epidemic seems to have stabilized but has not been reversed. There are still challenges
ahead. Behavior change aimed at reducing risky behavior has not progressedas expected.There
are still inaccurate perceptions about HIV/AIDS12and initiationof sexual activity at earlier ages.
The KAPB in2004 recorded a decline inthe median age at first sex to 15.7 years inmales and
17.2 years for girls (down from 16.4 years for boys and 18.2 for girls in 1996). About 54% of the
infected do not know their status as they do not access testing services. Only 3,600 or 34%
people who need antiretroviral treatment were accessingthe treatment in 2006; two-thirds of
people needing treatment seek medical attention at a late stage of the diseasewhen the efficacy
of treatment and the level of recovery attained may be limited; a 2006 survey shows a 95 to
100% level of adherenceinonly 55% of AIDS cases under treatment, an 80 to 94% level of
adherencein 37%, and less than 80% in 8% of AIDS cases under ARV. The health system
requires strengthening to handle the needs posedby the HIV/AIDS epidemic. This includes:
diagnostic, laboratory and staff capacity (shortageof doctors, nurses, social workers and
counselors), and institutional procedures which impede execution of planned activities due to
lengthy delays inprocurement. There i s also need to integrate HIV/AIDS services into the
existing health and family planning services; an enabling environment for the response to the
epidemic that includes attention to social and culturalnorms and to the political environment and

                            ~    ~~


12Only 36% of young men and40% of young women correctly identifyingthe ways of
preventing the sexual transmission of HIV (KAPB survey).




                                                22

sensitive issues surrounding vulnerable groups; stigma and discrimination and protection of
human rights; poor customer service within the health sector and its interpretation as HIV-related
stigma and discrimination; and mitigate homophobia and religious intolerance of certain
preferencesand behaviors.

62.     TheNationalHIV/AIDS StrategicPlan(NSP),2007-2012.13 The Government of
Jamaica has developed anew multi-sector National Strategic Plan, 2007-2012 through a
participatory consultative process that involvedcivil society, the private sector, PLWHA, youth,
representativesof marginalized groups, service providers, community leaders and policymakers.
The plan outlines the vision, goal and guiding principles. It lays out the priorities and the cost
and identifies the key issues: social vulnerability and policy, gender equity and roles, civil
society ownership, initiative, capacity, empowering youth, reducing stigma and affirming rights
involving PLWHA and promoting disclosure, and effective coordination. The estimated cost of
the NationalHIV//STIProgramfor the period 2007 to 2012 i s US$201.2 million. Available
current and planned resources are US$65.7 million. Unmet resource needs are calculated at
about US$ 135.5 million. This represents a financing gap of 67.3%. The four priority areas of
intervention are listedbelow.

63.     Prevention. This priority area will increaseefforts to changehigh-riskbehaviors;
address infrastructural obstacles that threaten the quality of and access to prevention services;
researchto improveunderstanding of specific population groups and design more response
interventions; capacity buildingfor outreach workers and peer educators; and engaging different
players inthe public and private sector for the multi-sector responseto reachkey vulnerable
groups and the general population.

64.     TreatmentCareand Support. The NSPoutlines acomprehensive set of health services
to address HIV/AIDS: enhanced screening and diagnostic services; voluntary counseling and
testing; PMTCT services; access to antiretroviral treatment with a focus on strengthening
adherenceto treatment; managementof sexually transmitted infections, opportunistic infections
including tuberculoses, and post exposureprophylaxis; and psychological and social support.

65.     EnablingEnvironmentandHumanRights. The strategy supports fostering an
environment that protects human rights and empowers people to make healthy decisions and
includes updating of legislation; implementation of workplace and sector-specific policies and
programs to safeguardprivacy and confidentiality and address stigma and discrimination;
improving access to condoms and contraceptives through affirmation of reproductive health
rights; and public education, advocacy and training inHIV/AIDS issuesfor managementand
employeesof the insurance sub-sector.

66.     Empowermentand Governance. The planpriorities include institutionalizingkey
positions inthe NHP within the public sector; inclusionof dedicated provisions for HIV/AIDS
within the recurrent budget; operationalizing the "Three Ones" principles: one national
coordination authority, one national HIV/AIDS plan and one monitoring and evaluation plan;
improving the procurement managementsystem; fostering greater harmonization and


l3The NSP was peerreviewedby the UNAIDS/WorldBankAIDS Strategic andAction Plans(ASAP)teambased
at the WorldBank's GlobalHIV/AIDSProgram(HDNGA).


                                                 23

collaboration among stakeholders including the CCM of the Global Fundand the NAC;
strengthening the capacity of public and private sector and NGOs; and working with religious
leadersto promote greater tolerance and acceptanceof PLWHA.




                                               24

                                    Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects
                                   Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project

67.    The WorldBank i s supporting the JamaicaHIV/AIDS program through a loanof
US$10.6 million due to close on May 31, 2008. The Bank project's objectives were to: support
the NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2002-2006) to curb the spread of the HIV epidemic
through expansion of programs targeted at highrisk groups as well as the general population;
strengthening of treatment, care and support for PLWHA; and strengthening Jamaica's multi-
sectoral capacity to respond to the epidemic. The World Bank i s also collaborating with
UNESCO and UNICEFto strengthen the education sector response.

68.     The GlobalFundfor AIDS TuberculosisandMalaria(GFATM). Jamaicawas
awarded US$23 million grant money by the GFATMfor the period 2004-2009 under Round3
and US$44.2 million inRound7 (2009-2013). This funding will focus on expanding supplying
ARVs, treatment, support to the education sector; targeted intervention among those most at-risk;
mass media education campaigns; condom promotion, anti-stigma campaigns, and policies to
affirm human rights.

69.     The EuropeanCommunity(EC). The EC funded aregionalproject14in2000to
support eight regional cooperation projects for HIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean that also benefited
Jamaica. It supported: increased skilledpersonnel; PMTCT; the network of PLWHAs;reduced
high-risk behavior and increasedinformation on the course, consequences and costs of the
epidemic. Inaddition, the EC supported the project, "Addressing HIV inJamaica: a holistic
response (750,000.00 - 2005-2008). The programcovers areas with highconcentrations of HN:
the inner city community of MandelaTerrace inKingston, Montego Bay, Ocho Rios, Mandeville
inthe parishof Manchester,andSpring VillageinruralSt Catherineparish.

70.     UNFPA. UNFPAprogram aims to promote sexual andreproductive health and rights,
gender equality and equity, by integrating population-related factors into development strategies
and plans. Ithas two sub-programs: sexual and reproductive health and population development.
UNFPAprograms are integratedinto national programs: reproductive health, includingfamily
planning and sexualhealth, service delivery including provision of male and female condoms,
information, education and communication (IEC). Inaddition, UNFPA has ajoint project with
the European Union (EU)/UNFPAprograminReproductive Healthwhich aims to: increase the
capacity to deliver comprehensive, integrated SRH services and improvedaccess and
reproductive health behaviors by the population, particularly vulnerable or neglected target
groups.

71.     UNICEF. The UNICEFCountry Program2007-2011for Jamaica aims to contribute to
realization of children's rights to survival, development, protection and participation through the
nurturingof an enabling andprotective environment. Itwill address the mainthreatsto
childhood, viz, violence, HIV/AIDS, and natural disasters, and promote opportunities for child
development. Support for HIV/AIDS includes: access to and quality of services, including ARV


l4"Strengthening the institutionalresponseto HIV/AIDS/STIinthe Caribbean" (SIRASC).


                                                    25

services, for pregnant women before and after delivery, ARV prophylaxis for infants and ARVs
for children, care support and protection for orphans.

72.     ILO. The ILOhasbeenimplementing a4-year programfrom 2004 which covers:
strengthening the tripartite relationship: the private sector, trade unions, and employers. It works
through the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. The programincludes: work place
programs, the voluntary compliance program focus on small and medium scale enterprises; and
gender related issues. This program i s envisagedto end in 2008 and may have no follow on
project.

73.     UNAIDS. UNAIDS supports strengthenedcoordination and managementauthority; the
development and implementation of an enabling legislative and policy framework with a gender-
centered and child-centered focus; and support to increasing access to prevention, treatment, care
and support and impact mitigation services. The UNAIDSi s also implementing aproject for
people with disabilities and an economic empowerment project.

74.     JapanInternationalCooperationAgency (JICA). Japancooperateswith the
Caribbean under the "New Framework for Japan-CARICOM Cooperation for the 21St Century"
as well as the annual Japan-CARICOM consultation. Technical cooperation inhealth covers
prevention, control of chronic non-communicable diseases and the HIV/AIDS Prevention
Education Program. An important element of the program is human capacity building: Japanese
volunteers have providedtechnical support inmonitoring and evaluation and for prevention
education training of human resources.

75.     PAHO. PAHOprovides technical support for the HIV/AIDS strategic planpreparation,
strengthening quality control for laboratories and testing; research includingbehavior change;
support to the Caribbean Food and Nutrition Institute on nutritional aspectsfor PLWHA;
tuberculosis management; education; study on NGOs; and strengthening monitoring and
evaluation (education, management, analysis and systems development). PAHO also provides
support through the country programwith CAREC.

76.     UNESCO. UNESCOis implementing atwo year plancovering policy, planning and
capacity building. A strategy has been preparedfor confronting HIV/AIDS. It will provide for
mainstreaming HIV/AIDS training ina systematic manner, e.g., continuous education of
teachers; health and family life education. Capacity buildingcovers the 6 regional education
offices. A specific partnership for strengthening HIV/AIDS inthe education sector includes
UNESCO, World Bank and UNICEF.

77.     USAID. USAID support envisagedover the next few years, will promote public private
partnerships and finances activities at the community level. Its annual budget over the next five
years i s estimated at US$1.2 million.




                                                  26

                                   Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                                           Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Project




PDOs: The project development objectives are to assistinthe implementation of the
Government's National HIV/AIDS Programby supporting the: (i)        deepening prevention
interventions targeted at highrisk groups and the general population; (ii) increasing of access to
treatment, care and support services for infected and affected individuals; and (iii)
                                                                                    strengthening of
program management and analysis to identify priorities for building the capacity of the health
sector to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and other priority health problems.

 1.      % of CSWs who         9%(2005)       <7%          <7%         Every 2 -3 years; NHP/M&E      Monitor progress in
 are HIV infected                                                      Unit                            meetingtargets o f NSP
2.   % of M S Mwho are         25-30%est.                  <25%        Every 2 -3 years; NHP/M&E       AND BCC strategies;
 HIVinfected                   15                                      Unit
3.   Numberof men,             3,000          6,500        7,500       Annually, Treatment site        Adjust programbased
women & children with          (2007)                                  reports, Regional Surveillance  upon the findings;
advanced HIV receiving                                                 Officers                       Expand access to
antiretroviral combination                                                                             qualityHIVpreventive
therapy according to                                                                                   and care services;
national guidelines                                                                                    Revise policies and
4. Number of institutions      55 (2006)                   80          Annually, NHP/M&E Unit          strategy based on
adopting policies to                                                                                   evidence
address HIV

Results Indicators for Eack Zomponent
Component One : Prevent nActivities
Subcomponent 1.a: Prevention Activities by the Ministry of Health and the Regional Health Authorities.
Subcomponent 1.b: Prevention activities by the non-health Line Ministries.
Subcomponent 1.c: Preventi      activities b Zivil Socie  rOrganizat ns.
5. % of most-at-risk           csw:43%                     CSW 50%     Every 2 years, Survey           Systematic collection
populations (MSM, CSW)         (2005)                                  Reports, NHP/M&E               of outcome data for
who receivedHIV testing        MSM TBD                                                                improving access,
inthe last 12months and        (June2008)                                                             utilization and quality
who know the results                                                                                  of services' delivery;
6. % o f young people         Baseline                     Males       KAPB every 3-4 year; NHP       assess performance o f
aged 15-24 reporting the      Project I                    80%         M&EUnit                        service delivery
use of a condom the last      Men: 76                      Female                                     partners, to identify
time they had sex with a       Women                       75%                                        barriers and propose
non-regular sexual            66%for the                                                              solutions to meet
partneP                        15-49age-
                              group                                                                   project objectives;
                               (2001)                                                                 Assess effectiveness
                                                                                                      of, and improve BCC




     l5 Data on M S M indicators will be available inJune 2008 after discussion with stakeholder meeting scheduled for
     May 2008.



                                                               27

7. % of female sex            92% (2005)    >92%         >92%          Behavioral surveillance; every interventions targeting
workers reporting the use                                              2 years.                       highly vulnerable
of a condomwith last                                                                                  groups; Revise
client                                                                                                programs and activities
8.   % of men reporting the   TBD (June,    10%                        M S MBehavioral surveillance   based on evidence;
use of condom the last time   2008)         above                      conducted every 2 years.       Assess line ministries
they had anal sex with a                    baseline                   Specific surveys (KAPB);       and civil society
male partner                                                           NHP M&EUnit                    organizations' capacity
9.   % of young women         Males                      Males                                        to deliver HIV
and men aged 15 - 24 who      36.2%                      70%;                                         preventive services;
both correctly identify       Females                    Females                                      and develop a
ways of preventingthe         40.0%                      80%                                          strengthening agenda
sexual transmission of HIV    (2004)                                                                  to buildtheir capacities
and who reject major                                                                                  and quality of services
misconceptions about HIV                                                                              delivery; Expand
transmission                                                                                          services to hard-to-
 10.Number of persons         115,825       200,000      400.000       Every 2 years; Lab reports;    reach groups and
 receiving counseling and     (2006)                                   NHPM&EUnit                     monitor adoption o f
 testing for HIV                                                                                      HIVprotective
 11. Number of NGOs           TBD (June                                Annually, NHP/PCU              behaviors
providing HIV/AIDS            2008)
prevention, treatment, care
and support according to
national
guidelineslstandards
Component Two: Treatml It, Care and upport
 12. % of adults & children   75% (2006)                 90%           Annually, Treatment site       Expandaccess of
 with HIV still alive 12                                               reports;                       quality care services
 months after initiation of                                            Treatment database from        through monitoring
 ART                                                                   EMR                            and evaluating
 13.% of HIVpositive          4 0 %                      100%          Monthly, Treatment Site        utilization of services,
 pregnant women receiving     (2002)                                   reports; Regional Surveillance with special attention
 a complete course of ARV     47% (2004)                               Officer/ HNcoordinators        to the most vulnerable
 prophylaxis to reduce the    74% (2005)                                                              groups; Assess number
 riskofMTCT                                                                                           ofcases observed and
14. % of ANC clients that     96.3%                      100%          Monthly, Treatment Site        treated by type of
are counseled and tested      (2005)                                   reports; Regional Surveillance health facility, health
for HIV (Project Iphrased     Same as                                  Officer/ HIV coordinators      workers and target
as "Proportion of Ante-       End-of-                                                                 population;
Natal Care attendees          Project 1                                                               Asses medical and
receiving M T C T             value                                                                   cultural barriers to
interventions")"              Baseline
                              Project 1                                                               access services and
                              15%(2001)                                                               device feasible
                                                                                                      solutions, including
15. % of infants born to      10%(2006)                                Annually, Regional             community level
                             09p
 HIV-infected mothers,        25% (2000)                               HIV/AIDS Monthly Report;       activities
 who are HIV-infected                                                  Regional Surveillance
                                                                       Officers & HIV Coordinators
16. Ratio of current school   0.99(2005)                              Every 5 years
attendance among                                                       MultipleIndicator Cluster
orphans to that among non-                                             Surveys (MICS)



      l6
       Indicator No. 6 was also a Project ICore Indicator; and target by end Project Iwas men: 85% and women 75%.
      l7
       Indicator No. 13 Project ICore Indicator; and target by end o f Project I was 80%, which was achieved.


                                                             28

orphans                                                         IUNICEF
17. Number o f institutions I                                                                 I Strengthen safeguards
that have adopted a health                                                                     at the clinical level
care waste management                   I           l           l
system
Component Three: Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Policy Formulation, Program Management, and
Monitoring and Evaluation
Subcomponent 3.a: Policy Formulation for an Enabling Legal and Regulatory Environment and HumanRights.
Subcomponent 3.b: ProgramManagement. To support the coordination and management of the Government's National
HIV/AIDS Program
Subcomponent 3.c: Monitori    and Evaluation.
18. Number and percent of                             70%        Annually                      Assess the political
reportedcases of HN-                                             National HIV related          environment and how
related discrimination       I                                   Discrimination Reporting and  implementing partners
receiving redressby setting                                      Redress System                are including non-
19. Number of institutions   55 (2007)                80         Workplace Survey Report       discrimination
adopting policies to                                              (25 private, 5 public);      practices into their
address HIV/AIDS                                                 Ministry of Labor/M&E Unit    programs;
20. Number of individuals                             350        Annually
instakeholder                                                    Reports (M&Emonthly           Assess participation of
organizations trainedin                                          report)                       all implementing
M&Eandlor surveillance                                                                         partners and how are
and/or HMIS                                                                                    collaborating towards
21. Number of                                         100%       Annually; Desk review         common goals;
mplementingpartners                                              NHPM&EUnit                    Assess the
.eporting on NSPindicators                                                                     implementation of the
22. Completion of            Ongoing                  Systems    NHPprogress reports; As       M&Esystem at the
computerization for:         I                        completed  completed                     national and sub-
NPHL; National Blood                                  and        NHP M&E Unit                  national levels with the
Transfusion Services;                                 populating                               assistanceof national
surveillance system.                                  data                                     and international
                                                                                               stakeholders;
                                                                                               Recurrent collection of
                                                                                               informationfor
                                                                                               decision makingto
                                                                                               manage the program
                                                                                               based on quality data

 23.     Alternative                                             NHP progress reports; As
 treatment technology for                                        completed
 biomedical waste                                                                              Upgraded biomedical
 management established in                                                                     waste treatment to
 the Western Health Region                                                                     mitigate potential
                                                                                               environmental effects
 24.     Environmental                                           NHP progress reports; As      and protect health care
 management and                                                  completed                     workers
 monitoringplans for each
 plant dealing with
 Biomedical Waste
 developed and being
 implemented




                                                          29

                        Data Sourcesfor ResultsFramework and Monitoring

78.      The NHPM&EUnitof the MOHis responsible for developingandimplementingthe program's
M&Eframework. The Surveillance Unit,underthe MOH's HealthPromotionandProtectionDivision, is
inchargeof alldisease surveillance activities, which includesHIV. The unitis staffedby a surveillance
officer full time incharge of the HIV component. The four Regions and fourteenParisheshaveforty
Contact Investigators,who are workingfull-time for the HIV ProgramandM&Eactivities. Inaddition,
the Adherence Councilorsand Socialworkers are co-responsible for collectingandreportinginformation.

79.      Routine Data Sources:
         (a) Sentinel Surveillanceof ANC and STIClinic Attendees. Tests are done at the health
               centre level. Positive rapidtests are then sent for testing by the ELISA method at a
               regional laboratory, or the NationalPublic Health Laboratory. The frequency of data
               collection and reporting i s typically between April and September, and i s collected
               every two years.
         (b) HIV/AIDS TrackinnSystem(HATS). HATS i s an ongoing HIV surveillance system
               based on confidential case reporting, which includes demographic information, mode
               of transmission, risk factors, and stage of infection. The M&EUnitreceives case
               reports from health services, public and private, on newly diagnosedHIV/AIDS
               cases. Inaddition, the surveillance officer basedat the NationalHIV/AIDSProgram
               actively visits hospitals, private practitioners, and hospices, death registries, among
               others, to identify and complete HIV/AIDS case reports. These case reports are
               entered into the HATS database, which i s routinely searchedfor double entries and
               revised periodicallybasedon updates from the surveillance officer or contact
               investigators. The database is usedto obtain national HIV prevalence estimates and
               other national statistics. Data are collected and entered inan on-going basis, and
               standardreports are generatedquarterly.
         (c) HealthInformationSystem(HIS). The Jamaican HIS consists of six stand-alone
               databases, out of which, two are still under development. The databases are directly
               managedby the Planning and Evaluation Department of the MOHand consist of
               data collected from: Hospitals - the Hospital Monthly Statistical Report (HMSR)
               databasethat reports on workload information within the hospital system; Medical
               Records Case Abstract (MRCA) databasethat stores patient demographics and
               information on diagnostic procedures, and discharge diagnoses; Patient
               Administration System (PAS) that stores patient demographics and information on
               admission, diagnostic procedures, and discharge; and Health Centers: Monthly
               Clinical Summary Report (MCSR) database that stores aggregateinformation on
               services including antenatal, postnatal, child health, Family Planning, etc.; Combined
               Immunizationdatabase; and Community Mental Health database.
         (d) Threshold 2lmodel. The T21 models the HIV epidemic inthe country basedon
               some of the rates shown above and other demographic information. The products
               are the projection models of the epidemic and the effects on the economy, the
               influence of program interventions, etc. The T21 software needs to be calibrated
               with realprevalence data on the general population and special groups; Le., MSM,
               CSWs and drug-usersto reduce overestimation of effects on the program
               interventions.




                                                     30

80.     Non-routine DataSources:
    (a) National Knowledge,Attitudes, Behavior andPractices (KABP) Survevs. The NHPconducts
        National KABP population-based surveys to obtain information related to the prevention
        and transmission of HIV and other STIs. These surveys providenational leveloutcome
        indicators. The sampling methodology i s by clusters, usingEnumeration Districts
        (EDs). The EDsare selectedwith probabilityproportionate to their size. Itis a stratified
        multi-staged sample with quota control for gender. The target groups are male and
        female 15-24 years, and 25-49 years. The rural/urban composition of this sample i s
        generally representative of the country. The NHPconducts a Nationalpopulation-based
        survey every 3-4 years.
    (b) SecondGeneration Surveillanceof MSMandCSW. These surveys providenational
        indicators and prevalence rates of high risk groups such as youth, MSMand CSW. The
        youth data i s collected through the Healthy Lifestyles surveys that focus on school-based
        and population-based samples of 10-15 year olds and 15-19 year olds. The MSMand
        CSW surveys are modifications of the Priorities for Local Aids Control Efforts (PLACE)
        methodology. Biological samples are also collected for HIV testing for MSMand CSW.
        These studies will be conducted every two to three years, depending on availability of
        funding.
    (c) The M&EUnithas gained access to additional data sources or will implement other data
        collection activities that include: (i)
                                             Health facility survey; (ii)
                                                                        Workplace survey; (iii)
        MICS (Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey); (iv) NationalHIV/AIDS database secondary
        data analysis; and (v) NationalHIV/AIDS M&E 10Years Report of HIV/AIDS/STIin
        Jamaica to be developed.

ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring

81.     The Jamaica M&E systemis described inthe M&EPlan and the M&EOperations
Manual. The M&EPlan describes the overall M&E system and components and the M&E
Operations Manual provides specific national guidance on procedures, protocols, policies, roles,
responsibilities, timelines and other implementation factors described inthe M&EPlan. The
objectives are: to track the implementation of the NHP activities and establish whether the
program goals have been achieved; to increasethe understanding of trends inHIV/AIDS
prevalence and explain the changes over time to allow for appropriate responseto the epidemic;
and to strengthenthe capacity of the NHP, regions, parishes and NGOs, CSOs and the private
sector to collect and useHIV/AIDS data.

82.     The NHPwill collect project indicators annually, biennially and every five years. Project
indicators will be collected through various components of the system, which are interrelated and
coordinated among implementing partners, and supportive assistanceof a Monitoring and
Evaluation ReferenceGroup (MERG). Outcome indicators will be collected at the family level
and of hard-to-reach groups. The role of the NHPwill be to oversee the overall design and
sample selection; monitor and ensurethe quality of the data collected and enteredinto a
database; and to carry out an overall analysis, triangulating informationfrom the different
sources. Public and private sectors will feedback the informationto local communities and
stakeholders.




                                                 31

                               Annex 4: Detailed Project Description

                                Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Project

83.      Component 1: Prevention Activities (US$3.34 million). (a) Subcomponent 1.(a):
Prevention Activities by the MOH and the Regional Health Authorities (US$ 2.99 million).
Studies show high levels of knowledge on modes of transmission of HIV and coverage of
services for vulnerable populations has increased. Nevertheless, the desired level of behavior
change has not been achieved. Results from the KABP (2004) indicate: a decline inmedian age
of first sex, persisting inaccurate perceptions and myths about HIV transmission, increased
commercial sex -- 6% of males 15-24 and 15% of males 25-49 engaged incommercial sex in
2004 increasedfrom 2% and 1.2% respectively in2000 (KAPB 2000, 2004 surveys) and
accepting attitudes towards PLWHA remain low (less than 6% of persons 15-49 have no
discriminatory attitudes towards those living with HIV--KABP,2004).

84.      The NHP aims to reduce individualvulnerability to HIV transmission through
interventions targeted at most at risk and vulnerable groups (youth, MSM,CSW, prison inmates,
drug abusers, PLWHA) as well as the general population by continued implementation of the
behavior changecommunication strategy (BCC) initiatedin 1988 and whose objectives include:
increasing awarenessabout HIV/AIDS among the general population; increasedknowledge and
skills and practice specific to abstinence, condom use, partner reduction; and to increase
appropriate risk perception. This subcomponent will strengthen the capacity of the MOH and of
the RHAsto provide technical guidance for the national responseto HIV/AIDS and to deliver
HIV/AIDSrelatedservices for prevention through the health care system. Support will include
staffing, training, materials development, operational support for outreach efforts and studies.

85.      MOHCommunitv LevelPrevention Initiatives: MOH's prevention efforts are guided by
the BCC Strategy. Technical guidance for implementation i s providedby outreach/mobile
workers, Community Peer Educators and Targeted Intervention Officers. Phlebotomists from
within the localcommunities and at-riskhulnerable groups such as PLWHAs and CSWs as well
as individuals inthe general population support the effort. They employ a series of innovative
methods and educational tools to reach diverse audiences of at risk groups such as CSWs,
MSMs,out of school youth and schoolchildren aged 10-14years old. The contribution of the
Media Component of the national responsehas also beenimportant in developing appropriate
IEC materials and involving local artists, DJs and party providers inefforts to influence norms
and move socio-cultural barriers. Future media campaigns will focus on HIV testing, stigma and
discrimination and consistent condom use for sexually active adolescents and adults.

86.      The main behavior change activities to be supportedby the project will be evidence-
basedBCC interventions, guided by surveillance and research. They will be targeted at: raising
awarenesson HIV; delaying sexual initiation, abstinencewhen appropriate; promotingcondom
use; reducing the number of sexual partners; and promotingHIV T&C. They will include face to
face interventions by community peer educators, mass media campaigns, public relations and
culturalvehicles to involve opinion leaders such as faith-based organization leaders, targeted
community interventions, training of NGO/CBO and government agencies, in school programs,



                                                 32

workplace education program, condom provision and social marketing. These activities are
complemented by expansion of HIV testing and counseling as well as a comprehensive package
of services for prevention of mother to children transmission. Fundingwill be providedfor:
development of IEC materials, mass media campaigns, and outreach aimed at most at risk groups
(CSW, MSM,inand out of school youth, inmates, and drug users) as well as targetedcommunity
interventions. Special studies to aid tailoring of interventions will also be financed.

87.     Condom Promotion. Condoms are widely available free of charge throughout the public
health services and providedas part of outreach activities and through condom social marketing.
However condom usehas leveled off. Thirty percent of men and 40% of women, having sex
with anon-regular partner, do not use a condom. Among CSW, condom use i s still low for non-
commercial partners (39%). There i s also indicationof poor positive prevention behavior such
as low condom use among HIV+ CSW and multiple pregnancies among HIV positive women.
The project will support promotion, procurement and distributionof condoms and lubricants.
This support will complement condoms from other sources such as the GFATMandUNFPA.

88.     Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT). Progressinthe area of VCT includes: (i)
increasedacceptancefor HIV testing; (ii)    expansion of entry points to VCT to point of care
(ANC, testing to all persons with STI at health centers; selective family planning clinics,
innovative approachesfor VCT such as walk-in clinics, mobiletesting e.g. drive-through, bashy
bus); (iii) of more than 2,250 VCT counselors in2004-2006; (iv) introduction of rapid
           training
testing (Determine, Uni-gold); and (v) decentralization of testing to regional laboratories. The
program currently tests about 75,000 persons per year inthe public sector (82,000 personsin
2006) and an additional 40,000 inthe private sector. Outreach activities to specific vulnerable
population (CSW, inmates, MSM)have improveduptake of VCT inthese groups (41% of CSW
reported having a HIV test done inthe past year). A provider initiated strategy with opt-out
testing for all public hospital admissions was piloted in 2006. Over 16,600 hospitals admissions
were testedfor HIV throughout the island of which 1,186 testedpositive. This strategy i s
currently being introduced inall public hospitals.

89.     The impact of increasedVCT is still low in spite of increased acceptance towards HIV
testing and scale up of services; more than half of the estimated PLWHA inJamaica are unaware
of their status. The percentage of persons 15-49 who received an HIV test andknow their results
i s 12% for males and 18% for females (MOH, KAPB 2004) and 38% of notifiedHIV cases are
first reported as AIDS case. The use of rapidtest hasbeen a great advantageto increasedaccess
to testing services. However, testing algorithms are complex and should be reviewed inlight of
WHOPAHO recommendations with afocus on reducing the number of tests as well as including
proficiency testing among personnel while defining the characteristics for kit selection basedon
cost, sensitivity, specificity and predictive values. Insufficient skilled staff (with a high
turnover), limited laboratory equipment, stock interruptions and deficient transport systemof
blood samples for confirmatory testing all are factors delaying the effective scaling up of VCT.

90.     Expansion of VCT for scaling up treatment and care and for preventing HIV
transmission. The project will support innovative approachesto further expand VCT to hardto
reach and vulnerable populations, (walk-in and mobile VCT services), increasenormalization of




                                                  33

VCT and expand provider initiatedVCT) It will support staffing, training, laboratory
strengthening, testing kits, reagents and supplies.

91.     Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV. PMTCT i s integrated into a
packageof services that includes prevention of HIV and congenital syphilis through rapidtesting
and treatment. Public opt-out testing and counseling of pregnant women startedin late 2000 and
was scaled up in2002 and 2003, with funds from the Elizabeth Glazer Foundation, and in2004
with funding from the GFATM. More than 90% of women attending ANC in2006 have been
tested for HIV through rapidtesting, scaling up from 40% in 2003. Single dose Nevirapine or
AZT (inSERHA) hasbeenprovided for PMTCT since 2003. In2006, over 75% of the pregnant
women that tested positive for HIV received antiretrovirals. HAART i s now the nationally
recommended regimen for PMTCT, a strategy that has been financed through the GFATMand
World Bank-financed loan. Ninety percent of infants bornto HIV infected mothers have
received ARV for PMTCT. Nutritionalcounseling is providedto the mother regarding
nutritional alternatives for the infant. Infantformula, in addition to bromocriptine to inhibit
breast milk production, i s also available through the public health system. Early infant diagnosis
of HIV infection is carried out using PCR testing at the NationalPublic HealthLaboratory
(NPHL). HIVperinatal transmission rate i s estimated to have decreased from 25% (estimate
perinatal transmission rate in absence of PMTCT interventions) to an estimated 8-10% in2006.
Technical support has beenprovided through UNICEF and PAHO.

92.     The project will also support strategies and activities to promote sexualhealth for HIV
positive persons such as encouraging a supportive environment for disclosure, promoting peer
support groups within the health services, providingreproductive health services, and ensuring
social support.

93.     Human ResourcesTraining: The project will support training inPMTCT, BCC, M&E,
STI/HIV Case Management, and treatment and care. Categoriesof staff to betrained include:
public health physicians at regional and parish levels, social workers, nursesto assist with
PMTCT, physicians to assist inHIV clinics, BCC coordinators and health educators.

94.     The project will also support managementof STIs and blood safety for preventing HIV
transmission. The latter will include promotion of voluntary blood donation.

95.     Subcomponent 1.(b) Prevention Activities by the Non-Health Line Ministries (US$0.30
million). Four key line ministries have been identifiedfor scaling up the contribution of the non-
health line ministries to make the national response atruly multi-sectoral. They will be
supported to provide prevention activities that are specific to the population that each Ministry
has a mandateto serve and/or encounters inthe course of execution of its official mandate.
They will also be supportedto implement cross-cutting HIV/AIDS activities. These include:
development and implementation of workplace HIV/AIDS policies; IEC/BCC for HIV/AIDS
and STDs; condom distribution and promotion; advocacy to reduceHIV/AIDS stigmatization
and discrimination, particularly inthe work place; and establishment of a support group for
HIV/AIDS patients and their families (either as a single ministryor incollaboration with other
ministries). The project will co-finance staffing costs of focal points for the Non-Health Line
Ministries.



                                                  34

96.     The Ministry of Education (M0E)has the most active HIV/AIDS programfinanced by
the GFATM, UNICEF, UNESCO, UNFPA,UNAIDS, JICA and PAHO. The financing supports
implementation of its sectoral strategy including teacher training and the health and family life
education. The Ministryof Labour and Social Security i s currently supported by the ILO and is
inthe processof enlarging the occupational health and safetyregulations to include HIV/AIDS
protection using the ILO template and wants to establish a mechanismfor receiving
discrimination complaints that will includereferrals to courts. Itwill be supported to scale up
work place interventions. The Ministry of Tourismhas a large external clientele with many high
riskpopulation groups such as commercial sex workers, water sports andtour operators, taxi
drivers, and street vendors. Effectively engaging bars, clubs, and hotels i s one of its major
challenges and eachestablishment should have an education programinplace and a method to
distribute condoms. The Ministryof National Security has untilnow focused mainly on its
internal staff Department of Correctional Services, the Jamaica Defense Force and the Jamaica
Constabulary Force through BCC training, sensitization workshops, and training of trainers. It
has installed condom dispensing machines in strategically located places. It wants to work more
aggressively with its prison population but is challenged by a legally and culturally constrained
environment. The HIV/AIDS Unit i s now under the Offender Management Division and i s
beingtransferred to the Training Department under the HumanResources. This subcomponent
would finance annual work programs of three of the four line ministries that would include
implementing workplace HIV/AIDS policies, BCC, condom distribution and promotion, and
advocacy to reduce HN/AIDS stigmatization and discrimination. The national program will
finance technical and material support for focal points, program officers and their respective
ministerialHIV/AIDS Committees.

97.     Subcomponent 1(c): Prevention Activities By Civil Society Organizations (US$ 0.05
million). Some of the lessons learned over the past five years of implementing the BCC strategy
include acknowledgement of the complexity of sexualbehavior and understanding that targeted
interventions have to be evidence-basedand adaptedto fit particular sites, locations and
audiences. CSOs can play a significant role inreaching particular vulnerable and highrisk
groups. CSOs have beeninvolvedinprograms that target priority at risk groups and hold
promise for furthering the response.

98.     Under the NHP, CSOs will be supportedto scaleup programs for youth inschool (with
special attention to 7* and 9* graders) including the Health and Family Life (HFLE)program
and innovative work focusing on inner city schools incollaboration with the MOE, the PTAs
and agencies dealing with dispute resolution and drug prevention. They include sexuality
education, risk assessment, behavior modeling and leadership training conducted through peer
education with students takingleadership. Support will also be providedfor CSOs to scale up
interventions for CSWs under the Priorities for LocalAIDS Control Efforts (PLACE)
methodology. This includes "empowerment workshops" offering literacy classes and referring
individuals to other agencies such as housing, banks and drug addiction/prevention. The project
will support involvement of club operators and other stakeholders, includingthose inthe tourism
industry, to implement risk reduction interventions including condom policy. The project will
enhancesupport for identificationand training of MSMto provide risk reduction skills, referral
to STI/HN test and treatment and promote adherence to anti-retroviral treatment and positive



                                                35

prevention. CSO activities will be coordinated closely with Government agencies that provide
work skills training so as to help empower this population, reducetheir social vulnerability and
assist them inentering thejob market. Researchhas revealed the needto target risk reduction
strategies inmale dominated occupations particularly, taxi and bus drivers, the police force and
auto-mechanics, who are involvedwith CSWs and transactional sex that lures under age girls
into sexual activity. The project will scale up existing experiencesinoutreach involving males
inthese occupations. As part of the M&Eactivities, a study will beundertaken on the attitudes
and behavioralpatterns related to condom use among CSWs, adult males, and MSMs. CSOs
work with orphans will also be supported.

99.     The GFATMhas allocated US$5 million to fund CSOs which will allow a dramatic
scaling up of the response. Support to CSOs will be providedthrough a demand driven process
guided by the NHPto ensurethat CSO proposals complement public efforts and are focusing on
program priority areas. Support will include costs for training, BCC interventions (described
above), condoms promotion and distribution, scaling up of VCT, and specific eligible material
support to orphans and vulnerable groups. As part of lessons learned from past programs,
capacity strengthening will be provided to CSOs to enhancetheir performance. This project will
finance training and the positionof CSO Coordinator inthe PCU who will provide capacity
buildingfor CSOs. Furthermorethis project hasdeveloped an organizational structure with
standardoperating proceduresfor engaging CSOs. Selection criteria are detailed inthe Project
Operations Manual and include proven human and financial managementsystems, demonstrated
consultation and participatory processto mobilize and empower target communities, and
experience indevelopment program implementation.

100. Component2: Treatment,Care andSupport (US$ 1.81million). This component
will support the strategy outlined inthe NSPto implement an extensive health systemthat
includes: enhanced screening and diagnostic services; PMTCT services; antiretroviral treatment
with a focus on strengthening adherence to treatment; services for managementof sexually
transmitted infections, opportunistic infections (includingtuberculosis); post exposure
prophylaxis; psychological and social support; provisionof specialized clinical care; and
improved access to antiretroviral therapy (ART).

101. Antiretroviral Therapy was initiatedin2004 with funding from GFATMand hasbeen
integrated into the existing health services with 19treatment sites inthe country. Teams
composed of doctors, nurses, adherencecounselors, social workers, nutritionists, and contact
investigators have been specially trained in comprehensive HIV care and treatment. Treatment
coverage was estimated to be around 34% in 2006. Guidelines have been develo ed for first and
secondline treatment regimens (it i s estimated that 5% of patients may be on 2" line treatment).
                                                                                 B
Most of the drugs used are generic and pricereductions have been achieved with support from
the Clinton Foundation and international bidding process (Kaletra has been reduced from
US$350 per bottle to US$83). ReportedAIDS related deaths have decreasedfrom 665 in 2004
to 432 in2006, attributed to scaling up ARV treatment. Treatment initiation is basedon clinical
assessment and CD4 count. CD4 testing is carried out at baseline and then on follow up every 3
to 6 months. Viral load (VL) is available for assessment of drug resistanceat the individuallevel.
Toxicity assessment i s providedwith support of testing through the regional laboratories.
Prophylaxis for PCP i s included within the standards of care for those that require it. A



                                                 36

mentoring systemi s inplace to aid with patient management. Stigma and discrimination i s still
present inhealth care facilities. Reports of breaches inconfidentiality appear to be less common
butcontinue to occur.

102.    Sexually Transmitted Infections STIs are strongly associatedwith HIV infection; 47% of
persons with HIV inJamaica have reported a history of previous STI. An integrated approach to
STIcontrol is beingusedthrough syndromic management. A decline inreported primary and
secondary syphiliscases hasbeen seen inthe last decade. Highrisk groups have a high burden
of STI (high STIprevalence was found among CSW and their patrons i.e. over 60% STI
prevalence in street CSW and 40% inthose that work inbars). Stigma and discrimination persist
as barriers to effective prevention and treatment.

103.    Opportunistic Infections. The project will support management of opportunistic
infections. Support will include development of algorithms, training of staff, and provision of
drugs.

104.    Tuberculosis. HIV testing among TB patients i s high, with close to 90% (78) of patients
tested for HIV in2005; over 35% (29) of these patients were HIV+. There i s a gap inthe case
detection rate of TF3 cases (3 per 100,000 notified incidence rate vs. an estimated rate of 7.4 per
100,000 for 2005). Technical support (up-dated guidelines and training) has beenprovidedfrom
PAHONHO and financial support through the World Bank loan. The project will support
scaling up diagnosis and treatment of TB patients and the detection of HIV in this group through
the provision of laboratory equipment, ensuring the required regulatory safety precautions to
conduct AFB cultures and antibiogram inNPHL, and supplies to expand AFB smear inregional
laboratories.

105.    The project will support drugs (not funded through the GFATMgrant), nutritional
supplements, substitution infant feeding formula, and training of health care workers in
comprehensive management of HIV/STI/TB and PMTCT; interventions to ensure confidentiality
and provide a supporting andnon-judgmental environment among health workers to reduce
barriers faced by infected and most at risk populations when accessingtreatment and care,
including training of health care workers, BCC campaigns and implementing explicit non-
discrimination policies inhealth facilities.

106.    Blood Safety. There i s a relatively safe blood supply inJamaica. All collected units are
screened for infectious markers including HIV at the NationalBlood Bank in Kingston. Most
donations come from replacement donors that carry higher prevalence rates of HIV. The project
will support testing kits and reagents, training and efforts for increasing voluntary blood
donations e.g., communication and outreach and appropriate customer service.

107.    Laboratory Services Strengthening. Laboratory services are providedby the referral
NationalPublic HealthLaboratory (NPHL) and RegionalLaboratories (Cornwall Regional
Hospital Laboratory, Mandeville HospitalLaboratory, St. Ann's Bay Hospital Laboratory and
SpanishTown HospitalLaboratory). HIV diagnostic services (rapid test and ELISA) are
providedat all of the regional laboratories with confirmationprovided by the NPHL.Rapid
testing is also available at peripheral clinics. Shortcomings occur with the transportation of



                                                  37

samples for CD4 and VL from the ARV treatment sites to the NPHL. Lack of staff and shortage
of equipment and supplies (stockouts of ELISA reagentsinregional laboratories, no back up or
maintenanceplan for basic equipment, just one microbiologistinNPLH) hinder interventions for
integral HlV prevention, treatment and care. The project will enhancethe decentralized
capacity, efficiency and quality of the laboratory systemby supporting provision of reagents and
supplies for HIV testing including confirmatory testing, rapid tests for syphilis and HIV,
microbiology, hematology and biochemistry. Ensuring adequate staff and skills, review of HIV
testing algorithms, and quality control mechanismswill be part of this support. Puttinginplace a
maintenanceplan for equipment (e.g. transportation of samples, laboratory equipment) as part of
ensuring the sustainability of health services provision.

108.    Component 3: Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Policy Formulation,
ProgramManagement, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$4.26 million). Subcomponent 3 (a):
Policy Formulation for an Enabling;Environment and Human Rights (US$0.41 million). The
NationalHIV/AIDS Policy and the National Strategic Plan 2007-2012put significant emphasis
on the provisionof a supportive legal and regulatory environment. Importantprogresstoward
the achievement of a supportive enabling environment has been made, e.g., a thorough review of
the country's legislative framework as it relates to HIV/AIDS was carried out; a National
HIV/AIDSWorkplace Policy was adopted; a Draft NationalOccupational and Safety Act was
prepared; aNationalPolicy for HN/AIDS Management in Schools was adopted; and key
support systems called for by the Child Care and Protection Act, namely the Children's Register
and the office of the Children's Advocate, have been establishedand are operational.

109.    The GFATMfinancing includes provisions for improving the policy, legal and regulatory
environment (inline with the NSP and the recommendations of the legislative review referred to
above), expanding the national systemfor reporting and redress of discrimination against
PLWHA; and addressinggender inequities and stereotypes, including homophobia. It will
finance the position of a legal adviser to work with the Solicitor General's Law Reform
Department inthe Ministryof Justice as endorsedby the Legal and Ethical Subcommittee of the
NAC inthe Law ReformDepartment inview of that unit's mission within the Ministry of
Justice. World Bank financing will provide technical assistancein support of the changes to the
legislative framework that have been recommendedby the legislative review including updating
of the Public HealthAct to deal with new health challenges such as HIV/AIDS and advocacy for
further legislative and policy reformto address stigma and discrimination.

110.    SubcomDonent3 (b) Empowerment and Governance (US$3.30 million). This
subcomponentwill support strengthening the institutional capacity for coordinating and
managing the Government's NHPby contributing to financing staff to carry out the technical
functions and the financial managementand procurement functions of the PCU and the RHAs.
Technical functions include coordinating implementation by the MOHincluding the RHAs,
other line ministries and CSOs, and M&E. Fiduciary functions include financial management
and procurement. Programmanagementpriorities include the absorption of key donor-financed
PCUpositions by the Government; inclusion of dedicatedprovisions for HIV/AIDS within the
recurrent budget; maintenance of the "Three Ones" principle: one national coordination
authority; one national HIV/AIDSplan, and one monitoring and evaluation plan; fostering
greater harmonization and collaboration among stakeholders including the Global Fund's CCM



                                                 38

and the NAC; strengthening the capacity of the public and private sector and work with religious
leaders to promote greater tolerance and acceptanceof HIV infected people. Fundingwill
include staff costs, materials and equipment for programmanagement.

111. Subcomponent 3 (c): Monitoring andEvaluation (US$0.54 million). A comprehensive
management and monitoring systemhas been developed and implemented by the M&EUnit of
the NHPPCU inthe MOH. The objectives of the M&E system are to provide continuous
feedback to monitor trends inthe epidemic and to strengthenthe delivery of HIV services. To
achieve these objectives, the program will emphasize: (a) evidence-basedprogrammanagement
that uses results at the population level and on high-risk groups; (b) an informationtechnology
(IT)platformthat will: (i)  integrate the multiple sources of information and implementing
partners; and (ii)complete the procurement of equipment, maintaining the software, training staff
and rolling out the Laboratory Information System to the regions; and (iii)   integrate the multiple
sources of information and implementing partners; and (c) special studies and researchgearedto
identify barriers to adopt HIV/STIprotective behaviors, service delivery, and quality of care.
There i s an appropriate number of staff trained inM&E at the M&EUnitand at the MOH
central, regional, and parish levels. Job descriptions, roles, and responsibilities are clear. This i s
not the case at non-health line ministries and inthe private sector (NGOs, CBOs and FBOs) that
needpeople trained inM&E. Iti s recommended that the ITplatform inthe M O Hbe
strengthenedwith programmers, most probably on a consultant or subcontract basis. A research
officer will strengthenthe team for data analysis and design and implement special studies. A
strategy will be neededfor other implementing entities including adding M&E staff, training and
developing specific indicators tailored to monitor the results of their interventions.

112.    The project will support the development of a M&E Operational Plana costed M&E
framework and plan; integration of informationfrom multiple data sources and motivating parish
and regional staff by involvingthem indata analysis and decision-making; strengthening
surveys and surveillance on the population and on special groups including CSW, MSM, STI
clinic attendees and prisoninmates. Support will be providedfor staffing, training, technical
assistancefor integrating the databases; upgrading of the information technology (IT) platform;
and developing a researchagenda that focuses on determining the reasonswhy the HIV
protective behaviors are stagnating.

113.    Component 4: Health Sector Development Support US$2.10 million).
Subcomponent4 (a): BiomedicalWaste Management (US$ 2.00 million). (A detailed analysis
of the biomedical waste management is available inAnnex 10.). The project will support
upgrading and improvedmanagementof the biomedical waste managementsystem. This will
include: (i)upgrading medical waste treatment facilities; waste disposal supplies and materials in
all health regions for enabling proper segregationpractices; (ii) interimstorage facilities to
support the regional collection and alternative treatment systems will be financed by the
Government through the NationalHealthFund; (iii)      capacity buildingactivities: develop and
disseminate medical waste managementtraining material; train healthcare workers inmedical
waste managementand post exposure prophylaxis, including regional `Training of Trainers'
workshops; sharebest practices; and train staff for operation and maintenance of new equipment;
and, (iv) preparing facility specific waste managementplans including the creation of a systemto




                                                 39

support health care facilities inthe documentation of infectious waste generation on a continuous
basis.


114.   Subcomponent 4 (b): Diagnostic Capacity Assessment of the Health Sector (US$O.lO
million). Critical challenges to the capacity of the health sector to deliver quality health services
include inadequate staffing levels in all professional categories, a financial burden on families
paying out of pocket for private medical care, old and crowded physical facilities, pockets of
violence incertain communities impeding access to health services and constraining the
movement of health personnel, and bypassing the primary health care level. The April 2004
national report preparedby the PIOJnotedthat Jamaica i s unlikely to achieve the child mortality
reduction, maternal health goals and the target for HIV/AIDS by 2015.18 This component will
conduct an assessment of the obstacles that limit the capacity of the health sector to deliver
quality health care efficiently. The investment and operational cost of the actions identified in
the assessment will be calculated and options proposed for financing the cost from national and
external sources.




l8PlanningInstituteof Jamaica. MillenniumDevelopmentGoals, Jamaica. April 2004.



                                                 40

                                                 Annex 5: Project Costs
                                         Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Project

Summary of Project Cost Estimates
                                                                                                (US$
                                                                                                Million)
                                                                                      Foreign   Local        Total

    A. 1. PreventionActivities
       1.a PreventionActivities by Ministry of Health/a                               0.589     2.401        2.990
       1.b PreventionActivities by the non-health Line Ministries                     0.059     0.241        0.300
       1.c PreventionActivities by Civil Society Organizations                        0.010     0.040        0.050
    Subtotal 1. PreventionActivities                                                  0.658     2.682        3.340
    E.2. Treatment, Care and Support
       2. Treatment, Care and Support                                                 0.734     1.076        1.810
    Subtotal 2. Treatment, Care and Support                                           0.734     1.076        1.810
    C. 3. Strengthening InstitutionalCapacityIb
       3. a Policy Formulationand Legislative Reform./c                               0.165     0.247        0.412
       3. b Empowermentand Governance                                                 1.323     1.985        3.308
       3. c Monitoringand Evaluation                                                  0.218     0.327        0.545
    Subtotal 3. Strengthening Institutional Capacity                                  1.706     2.559        4.265
    D. 4. Health Sector Strengthening and Development
       4. a HealthWaste Management                                                    0.800     1.200        2.000
        4. b Health Sector DevelopmentSupport                                         0.040     0.060        0.100
                                                                                      0.840     1.260        2.100
                                                                                      4.091     7.450        11.541



Total PROJECTCOSTS                                                                    4.091     7.450        11.541

\a Preventionactivities by the Ministryof Health and Regional HealthAuthorities
\b for Policyformulation, program management,and monitoring and evaluation
\c for an Enabling Env. & Human Rights




             Components by Financiers
                                                                WorldBank       Government       Total
                                                                (US$ Million)   (US$ Million) (US$ Million)
             Prevention                                            3.248           0.093         3.341
             Treatment, Care and Support                           1.736           0.074         1.810
             StrengtheningInstitutional Capacity,
             Policy Formulation, Program
             Management,M&E                                        3.046           1.219         4.265
             Health SectorDevelopment Support                      1.945           0.155         2.100
             Front-endFee                                          0.025           0.000         0.025

           I Total                                                 10.000          1.541        11.541




                                                                 41

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                                JamaicaSecondHIV/AIDS Project

115.    InstitutionalArrangements. The project will be organized at three levels and include
the following institutions: (a) The Council for Health and Social Development (COHSOD)
reporting to the Cabinet. will be responsible for setting policy, overall coordination, and
monitoring and evaluating the performance of the national HIV/AIDS program; (b) The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) located within the NationalHIVETIProgram (NHP) of the Ministry
of Health (MOH), will coordinate the activities of and provide fiduciary support to the
implementing agencies; and (c) Implementing agencies will be divisions of the Ministry of
Health, the four Regional Health Authorities, four non-health line ministries, civil society entities
(including the National AIDS Council, an umbrella NGO, other NGOs, CBOs, churches and
other FBOs), and the private sector (including employer associations, trade unions, and media).

116.     ImplementationArrangements. The project will be coordinatedbythe PCUwithin the
NationalHIV/STIProgram (NHP) of the MOH. The PCU consists of an experienced team of
professionals that have coordinated the activities of the first HIV/AIDS project. The staff has
beentrained inWorld Bank procedures and has performed satisfactorily under the first project.
The Uniti s headedby Senior Medical Officer, a civil service position, who directs a core staff
that includes: (a) acoordinator for policy and advocacy (financed by the Global Fund); (b) a
director of M&Ewith a staff of biostatistician, databaseofficer, M&E officer and HIV
informationofficer; (c) a coordinator of health systems and capacity development; (d) a director
of prevention assistedby a youth intervention officer and a BCC officer who i s assistedby two
BCC coordinators, one for NGOs and one for vulnerable populations; (e) a line ministry
coordinator reporting to the director of prevention; (0a coordinator for treatment and care with
technical assistant; (g) a national program administrator to manage the fiduciary functions
carried out by: (i)a senior finance and administration officer assistedby a finance officer, two
assistantfinance officers (one paidby USAID and one paidby the GFATM), two account
assistants; and (ii)
                   a senior procurement officer assistedby two assistant procurement officers.
The fiduciary unit also managesthe grant funds from the GFATM.

117.     Sustainability.Most PCU staff -as shown inthe table below - havebeenpaid with
donor funds including the World Bank loan. The processto convert some of these positions into
permanent establishment posts has been initiatedwith the intended outcome of creating an
institutionalized and sustainable core group of professionals to coordinate and support the
implementation of the national HIV/AIDS Program. Inaddition, the Government i s proposing to
create a HIV Division within the MOHreporting to the CMO and staffed by the institutionalized
professional staff.




                                                 42

                               NationalHIV/AIDS ProgramStaff
                                                    - -

                            Position        -- -
                                             MOH IBRD ;FATk JSAID `OTAI




                   gationalProgramStaff        2      16      12       3      33

                   ItherNationalLevelStaff     1      7       4        6       17

                   gationalAIDS Committee             4       2                6

                   3eldStaff: WRHA                    13      9       22      44

                              SERHA                   13      51      15      79

                              NERHA                   7       20       3      30

                              SRHA                    7       7       12      26

                   rota1FieldStaff            NA    ----
                                                     40       87      52      179

                            TOTAL              3      67      105     61     236




118.    Three types of implementing entities will implement the project: (i)    the Ministryof
Health through its centralized functions (National laboratory, blood bank, waste management)
and through the four decentralized RHAs;(ii)    four key non-health line ministries: Education;
Tourism, Entertainment and Culture; Labour and Social Security; and National Security; (iii)
CSOs, and (iv) the private sector.

119.    The implementation strategy has been agreed on and i s detailed inthe Operations
Manual. Implementation of project activities will be precededby the elaboration of annual work
plans for the public sector entities and by proposals for the civil society entities. The Government
Ministries will prepare annual work planswhich are aligned with the Government annual
budgets. CSOs will be funded through a demand-driven processbasedon the systemthat has
been put inplace under the ongoing Bank-financed project. A consolidated annual work plan
will be preparedby the PCU and reflected inthe MOH annual budget for submission to the
MOWS. The work planwill include the MOH's own work plan, plans of other Line Ministries,
and abudget line for subprojectsof CSOs.




                                                 43

                   InstitutionalArrangementsfor Implementationof the Project




                                            Cabinet




                                MOmationalHIV/STI Program
                                    ProjectCoordinationUnit




                                Implement.ngAgencies

                                                 -
  MINISTRY OF               NON-HEALTH              CIVIL SOCIETY           PRIVATE SECTOR
     HEALTH                 MINISTRIES
                                                        NGO Sector
    Central Level      Education                  NAC, PAC and other
Epidemiology           Labour & Social Security   NGOs, Churches, and
Laboratories           Tourism                    other FJ3Os and CBOs
Blood Bank             NationalSecurity

        RHAs
Hospitals & Health
Centers

120.    Implementation Strategy for Line Ministries and Regional HealthAuthorities. A set
of steps comprises the elaboration and implementation of activities at the national levelfor non-
health line ministries and at the regional levelfor Regional Health authorities. The following
steps summarize the strategy:

        The Project Operations Manual will present a general Project Implementation Plan. This
        plan i s indicative and planned activities should be adjusted every year. Between June and
        July, the PCUwill allocate funds for Line Ministries and RHA according to the NHSP
        updated policies and project approved cost tables. PCU will prepare guidelines to
        elaborate work plans.

        The PCU will organize workshops ineach region for RHAs and at the central levelfor
        line ministries. Guidelines will be distributed and usedto prepare work plans for each
        public sector implementing agent. It will have the mandate for approving funding work
        plans submitted by implementing agents.

        Focalpersons and working teams of each implementing agent will be responsible for
        preparing and submittingthe work plans to PCU. Work plans for line ministries need to
        be signed by the Permanent Secretary of the respective line ministries. Work plans for
        RHAsneedto be signedby the RegionalDirector.

        PCU applies criteria to appraise and adjust the work plans. Activities are organized inthe
        MISandproper financing arrangementsareconsolidatedinannualimplementationand
        procurement plans.

        PCU submits consolidated annual work planto financiers for No-Objection.

        After receiving the No-Objection, implementing agencies receive the first advance of
        financial resources and start implementing the work-plan. PCU staff and facilitators
        (contracted by the PCU) performperiodic monitoring visits to evaluate progress and
        overseethe correct application of finance and procurement policies according to donor
        rules.

        PCUreleases subsequentfunding advances according to progressreports and
        presentation of statement of expenditures (SOEs).

        Each implementing agent submits an implementation report before the end of the
        Jamaican fiscal year.

This implementation strategy i s repeatedeachyear.


121.    FundsPre-Allocation. Inorder to set uptransparentrules andequity amongall
stakeholdersit i s suggestedto use a simple model for fund distributions: RHAs will receive
funds basedon regional needs andregional implementationcapacity as expressedinthe annual
work plans. Non-HealthLine Ministrieswill receive funds according to approved yearly work
programs.


                                                  45

122.    HIV/AIDSDemand-DrivenSubprojects. Small grants will be given to non-public
sector implementing agencies on a demand-driven basis. This support will encourage
community-based activities, particularly innovativeinitiatives -to be known as demand-driven
"subprojects".

a) EligibleBeneficiaries

NGOs, CBOs, andprivate organizations incharge of carrying out subprojectswill target
activities to eligible beneficiaries:
        Youth groups.
0       Commercial Sex Workers
e       IntimateEntertainment Workers
0       MSM
0       DrugUsers
        People living with HIV/AIDS
e       Prison Inmates
        Other vulnerable sub-population or groups

b) Sub-Projects. A subproject is an organized instrument containing at least: i)Justification for
an intervention; ii)Identifiedbeneficiaries; iii)Cost breakdown; iv) Counterpart (local
contribution); v) Implementation plan; and vi) results based on performance indicators.
Complex subprojects will contain additional requirements.

c) ImplementingAgencies. To prepareandto manage a subproject requires certain levelof
experience and skills. Inthat sense the demand-driven subprojects' strategy will ask for the
support of NGOs, CBOs, and private organizations (Implementing Agencies) to carry out
activities related with HIV/AIDs initiatives.

d) PrincipalActors. Severalactors will be involvedwithin these operating and funding
mechanisms. Involvedbodies or entities and their roles are:

    CommunityBeneficiaries(CB)- Ruralor urban community residentswho will benefit
    directly from subproject investments. They should be supported and representedby an
    Implementing Agency to receive benefits.

    ImplementingAgency (IA) - Eligible entities selectedaccordingto specific criteria.
    Information of each Implementing Agency will be part of the subproject proposal.

    SelectionCommittee(SC)- The Selection Committee for the demand-driven subprojects
    will consist of the Director of the NationalHIV/STIProgram or his nominee, 1
    representative of the NAC, 1-2representativesfrom the PCU and 1-2 members of civil
    society (1PWLHA, 1PAC, 1NGO etc.).

f) EligibleCriteriafor ImplementingAgencies
EligibleImplementing Agencies may be classified by groups:




                                                46

 Private Sector Enterprises with at least twenty (20) employees and in existence for at least
 Enterprises    3 years, managing budget with annual turnover of more than US$50,000
                with good financial management systems in place. Two or more years of
                Experience inHIV/AIDS or community development.
 National       Nationalcoverage (more than one region) with experience inHIV/AIDS or
 NGOs           social development program implementation experience (minimum2 years
                experience) and with annual budgets 2 US$20.000with good financial
                management systemsinplace.

 Other civil    With a minimumof 1year experienceinHIV/AIDS programor
 society        development implementation and budgets2 US$lO.OOO and basic financial
 organizations  managementsystems inplace.
 (CBOs,
 NGOs, FBOs)

Inaddition IA should demonstrate:

   Management Capability: Proven human and financial managementsystems and have
   manageda 1/3 of the funds requested.
   Community Participation: demonstratedconsultation and participatory process to mobilize
   and empower target communities




                                             47

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                                Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Project

123.    The Financial Management Assessment of the implementing agencies capacity was
conducted during the project preparation mission inJanuary, 2008. The first project was
approved on March 29,2002 and it i s expectedto close on May 31,2008. The financial
management aspects of the first project were well managed. The complete report of the Financial
Management Assessment i s available inthe project files.

124.    ImplementationArrangements. The project will be coordinatedby the PCUwithin the
NationalHIV/STIProgram (NHP) of the Ministryof Health (MOH). The PCU consists of an
experiencedteam of professionals that have coordinated all activities of the first World Bank
financed HIV/AIDS project. The staff has been trained inWorld Bank procedures and has
performed satisfactory under the first project. The team also has experience with implementing
other donor-funded projects including the GFATM. The unit i s headedby Senior Medical
Officer, a civil service position, who directs a core staff that includes the coordinators for the
project components and subcomponents, an M&Eofficer, a financial manager and a procurement
manager and their supporting technical and administrative staff. The fiduciary unit also manages
the grant funds from the Global Fund. Project implementing entities include: The M O H through
its four decentralized RHAs, supported by the centralized functions relating to the following
services - NationalLaboratory, Blood Bank, BiomedicalWaste Management; Four key non-
health line ministries: Education, Tourism, Entertainment and Culture, Labor and Social
Security, and National Security; Civil Society entities including the NGO sector, CSOs, churches
and other Faith BasedOrganization (FBOs); and the private sector including the Jamaica
BusinessCouncil, private companies, and the media.

125.    RiskAssessment andMitigation. As indicated inthe FinancialManagement
Assessment the risk of the project i s rated moderate. This i s due to the fact that (a) Jamaica has
strong financial managementand procurement capabilities; (b) the PCU and the MOHhave
experience and a good track record inimplementing World Bank-supported projects.

126.    Flow of Funds. The flow of funds mechanismunder the proposed Project will be
similar to that under the first Project. Under the SecondHIV/AIDS Project, the GOJ will
continue the usualpractice of issuingwarrants to cover full budgetary allocation for the project.
The warrants will contain two parts: one for the GOJ counterpart funding and the other for the
World Bank's portion. The arrangement for fundingthe warrant will be inkeeping with the GOJ
procedure adoptedfor the fiscal period 2006/2007. Cashpaid out against the warrant issued will
only be for the GOJ counterpart portion approved inthe budget for activities to be implemented
by RHAs and CSOs. The eligible Bank loan portion will continue to be funded through the
DesignatedAccount to be establishedfor receiving World Bank resources. All project funds will
be channeledthrough the PCU.

127.    Loan funds will be disbursedto one DesignatedAccount (US dollar account for Bank
funds). As i s the current practice inJamaica, the DesignatedAccount will be openedby the
MOFPS and maintained inacommercial bank with a fixed ceiling of about 10% of the loan. In
accordance with the recommendations made inthe 2001 CFAA, and ineffort to streamline the



                                                 48

national account management, the Designated Account, for accounting purposesonly, will
appear as a sub-account within the government's Consolidated Fund. A secondbank account
(the project account) will be establishedinlocal currency to support the day-to-day operations
and payments for expenditures eligible under the loan as was the case under the first loan.
Advances covering projected three-month cash flows will be transferred from the USD
Designated Account to the localcurrency project account to meet small eligible day-to-day local
expenditures. A separateBank account would be maintained to handle government counterpart
funds. The PCUwill reconcile (monthly) all the project accounts. The reconciliation for the
Designated Account and the project account will be submitted to the Bank with each withdrawal
application.

128.    Additionally, the RHAsand Line Ministries (LMs) may open project accounts, under the
project, for receiving financial support for eligible activities intheir annual work plans. Under
the guidance of the PCU, the LMs and RHAs will carry out project activities and process
payment orders for eligible expenditures from the project account approved for funding the
HIV/STIwork plans. Periodic advances will be madeto RHAsandLMto cover no more than 90
days of expected expenditures. Details of the controls and procedurespertaining to the
managementof the project accounts are contained inthe Operations Manual.

129.    The PCU will also disburse funds to Community Based Organizations (CBOs) and NGOs
to implement the demand-driven subcomponent of the project. They will be assessed and placed
into classes a, b, or c basedon administrative capabilities. The administrative arrangementwill
be guided by the principles outlined inthe HADDSHandbook. The accounting and reporting for
all project funds will be on amonthly basis in accordance with the MOH'sLegalFramework and
Policy Framework documents. Where necessary, the PCU will ensurethat monthly account
reconciliations and financial reports are received and approved before continuing to disburse to
the CBOsLNGOs.




                                                  49

                  Jamaica Second HIWAIDS Preventionand Control Project
                          -


 Budgeting                  I              Flow of Funds
                            I                    I                  I                I
                                Budget Project
                               Planning Unit of
                                     MOH

                               t                        Approve

                                                                        M O F




                                                     Warrants Issued
                                                    (Cash 8, Non-Cash)                      1-
Fund Release
 Procedure                          A

               -1                    Accountant
                                      General    I
                                                                  -
                                                              ConsolidatedFund

                                                                             I
                                                                             I
                                                                             I



   Bank                   JA$ GOJ                                          US$                World
 Accounts               Counterpart             JA$ Project             Designated    +       Bank       #-
     1                  FiindAccoiint            Account                 Account
                                                                                         -
                                                                          Local& Foreign
                                   ~              Local Suppliers,
 Expenditure       RHA      cso        Line      Small Foreign         Suppliers, Advance to   Direct
                                                 Suppliers               JA$ Project N C      Payment



Documentation                                  Document Eligible Expenditure




  Reports                               GOJ Reports                                IUFR's/FMR
                     ~




                                                50

130.    Accounting Policies and Procedures. Administrative procedures will be inplace to
ensurethat financial transactions are madewith consideration to safeguarding project assets and
ensuring proper entry inthe accounting/monitoring systems. Before payments for acquisition of
goods and services can be processed, a purchase order or contract must exist. The project
accounting system will have the capacity to record financial transactions of the project, and
produce financial statements useful to project managementand meeting the Banks and GOJ
fiduciary requirements. The accounting systemi s designed to be able to capture all financial
information and allocate among the project components. Furthermore, the accounting system
will support the project managementsystem, which oversees all work flows and procurement
processes. Changesinone systemshould be reflected with revisedhpdated
monthly/quarterly/annualactual funding needs and future budget estimates.

131.    The project will also submit detailed monthly statements of expenditures to the Office of
Finance and Accounts and to the MOW'SEconomic Management Division inorder that the
project's expenditures are recorded on the Ministry's accounts as well as supervisedby the unit
responsible for managementof external financing.

132.    Segregation of Duties. The PCU has a clear organizational structure and procedures
established according to the norms under the Financial Administration and Audit Act (FAA).
Said procedures support an adequate segregationof procurement, budgeting, payment and
recording activities. All payment orders/requests at the PCULevel are prepared and signedby
component heads then passedto procurement and finance officers for comments and approval.
They are then reviewed and signedby the SMO or designate.

133.    Budgeting. The loan agreement and project cost tables will be the main inputsfor the
project budgets and counterpart (GOJ) funding estimates under the Capital Budget. The M O H
will follow prescribed governmental budgetary heads, and in adherenceto the FAA Act, the
PCU/MOH will prepare at least:
         The annualwork plan classified by activities, with goals/objectives, physical and
         financial programs, and cost;

         The summarized and detailed budget by major components and specific objects,
         specifying the source of funds;

         after approval by Parliament: the budget execution programbroken down monthly, and
         the quarterly document of budgetary commitment authorizationkash flow;

         the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued within 8 working days after the
         end of each month; and

         the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within 15 working
         days after the end of the quarter.

         Bank account reconciliations will be prepared on a monthly basisby the assigned officer
         and will be available within 8 days after the end of the month.




                                                51

134.    Safeguardover Assets. Assets acquired by the project will be inthe custody of the
respective institutional departments benefiting from such purchase. The PCUwill keep detailed
subsidiary records and an asset register of goods and equipment acquired under the project.
The amounts inthe register will be reconciled periodically against the respective accounting
balances. At least one annual physical inspection will be undertaken by MOH staff, preferably
with the participation of staff from the external auditors and the Auditor General's Department
(AGD).

135.    Administrative Monitoring of Financial Resources.As a coordinating entity it is
mandatory that the PCU conduct regular monitoring exercises for all internal and external
implementers. The monitoring should include physical site visits (no less than 3 per
entity/annum) to review procurement processes, financial records, assess implementation:
budget vs. actual and physical inspectionof assets purchased. Following each monitoring visit
a report i s to be written no later than 10days after.

136.    InternalAudit. The PCU will be subject to review by the MOH's Internal Audit
Department and the country's Auditor General's Department (AGD).Although no internal
auditor will be assigned specifically to the project, the external auditors will perform visits on a
bi-annual basis (see next section), and the AGD, under its sampling/material criteria, will audit
the project at least once before completion as i s required for governmental audits

137.    External Audit. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of
reference (TORS)both acceptable to the Bank and the GOJ. Inaddition to the audit opinions on
the project financial statements, designated account and interim un-audited financial reports
(IUFRs), the audit opinion will be required to deal specifically with: (i)    observance of the
procurement and consultants services provisions of the Loan Agreement; and (ii)          special
purpose audit carried out on a half-yearly basis to review the demand-driven subcomponent and
activities carried out at the Parishlevel by CBOs and NGOs. The memorandumon internal
controls ("Management Letter") will be issued after each semi-annual audit.

138.    The PCUi s expected to appoint the auditors (for both the annual and special audits) in
time to undertake the audits and prepare the reports in a timely manner, with an annual contract
to be renewedduring the first quarter of each subsequent year, subject to satisfactory
performance. The cost of the audits will be financed from the project.

139.    The PCUwill prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and
recommendations contained inthe audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities will be
communicatedto the Bank.

140.    The table below summarizes audit requirements:

  Audit Report                           IDue Date                                                 1
  Projectfinancial statements             4 months after the endof the reporting period (coincides
                                          (Coincide with GOJrequirements)
  IUFRs                                   Same as above




                                                 52

    DesignatedandProject Accounts         Same as above


    Special purpose                       Twice a year with the secondletter 4 months within the end
                                          of the reportingperiod.


Reportingand Monitoring.

The Progress Reports to be prepared under the Project will summarize the progress of execution
of activities inthe annual work plan by component. It will provide a summary of related
program activities financed by other sources of funding including the Government and other
principle partners. It will providethe updated activity levelprocess indicators and the latest
overall project monitoringindicators.


  141.     Financial statements and InterimUn-audited Financial Reports (IUFRs) will be prepared
  quarterly, satisfying the Government and the Bank's monitoring and fiduciary purposes. The
  content and formats of the IUFRs have been agreed. The progress reports includingthe project
  financial statements, along with procurement sections, will be submitted no later than forty-five
  (45) days after the end of each quarter.

  142.     On at least, a monthlybasis, the PCUwill preparethe project's Sources andUses of
  FundsStatement, amatrix classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by
  financing source and disbursement category. The expenditures will be compared to the
  projected figures per the quarterly budgets prepared as indicated inthe Budgeting section
  above. This report is submitted to the MOH's Finance and Accounts Division, and the MOFP's
  Financial Management Division

DisbursementArrangements. The disbursementsunder the SecondHIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Project will migrate from a transactions based-disbursementmechanismto a reports
based-disbursement mechanism for disbursementsvia the Designated Account. Inaddition,
disbursementswill be made on the basis of project components. When submittingIUFRs as
supporting documentation for reporting on the use of advances, the IUFRs must include a "Use
of Cash Statement" that will be utilizedto document expenditures that were incurredduring the
reporting period and a "Cash Forecast Statement" for the next two reporting periods that will
provide the basis for the amount to be advanced. Inaddition the I U F R s will need to be
supplementedby bank statements for the DesignatedAccounts, Designated Account Activity
Reconciliation Statement, Project Account and RHALMReconciliations. The balances inthe
I U F R s pertaining to disbursementcategories will be required to be reconciled with those in
Client Connection. The documentation to the Bank of payments made on the basis of
retroactive financing would be made on the basis of reports. Supporting documentation for all
payments under the loan would be made available for review by visiting Bank supervision
missions and to the auditors. Direct payments would be fully documented.

143.       FinancialManagementAction Plan. The PCUhas satisfactorily met all the actions
that were required to be completed prior to the commencementof project implementation, except




                                                  53

for the opening of the designatedaccount. Agreement has been reachedthat the designated
account would be opened within 30 days after loan signing..
 144. FinancialCovenants. Bank's standardfinancial covenants apply for this project.
 They include the requirement to submit annual audit reports of the project's account and
 financial statements not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year and the
 requirement to maintain adequate financial managementsystems so that the project is capable
 of accurately recording project transactions and of preparing reliable financial reports.

 145.    Supervision Plan. The supervision of the PCU, the RHAs and other implementing
 agencies will focus on: (ijmix of number and qualifications of the staff working on the project,
 (iijquality andtimeliness ofreportsproduced, (iiijtheprocessing speedof administrative and
 financial matters, particularly payments processing. Bank's supervision mission will be every
 six months and will also include civil society organizations and governmental agencies to
 evaluatehow these entities manage and account for project resources.

 146.    The timeliness of the audit also is to be monitored closely. The audits will be reviewed
 to ensurethat it covers all relevant aspects and provideenough confidence on the appropriate
 use of funds by recipients.

                                 Allocation of the Loan Proceeds

 Component                                               Amount of the Loan          Financing
I                                                       Allocated inUS Dollars         Percent

 Prevention Activities                               I           3.248                  97%

 Treatment, Care and Support                                      1.736                 95%

 InstitutionalStrengthening, Program                             3.046                  72%
 Management, and Monitoring andEvaluation

 Health Sector Development and Support                            1.945                 93%

 Front-end Fee                                                   0.025

 Total                                                           10.000




                                                 54

                              Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements

                               Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project

A. General

147.    Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's `Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits' dated May 2004 revised
October 1,2006; and `Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers' dated May 2004 revised October 1,2006, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal
Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories are described ingeneral
below. For each contract to be financed by the Loan the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and timeframe are agreedbetween the Borrower and the Bank inthe Procurement
Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

148.    Procurementof Works:Works procured under this project will include: upgrading of
incinerator facilities and waste managementand small rehabilitations. The procurement will be
done using the Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB and National SBD agreed
with or satisfactory to the Bank. Shopping.

149.    Procurementof Goods:Goods procured under this project will include: drugs,
condoms, waste management equipment, shredders, autoclaves, waste disposal supplies and
materials, requisite equipment to facilitate the national Public health laboratory, testing kits,
hardware, communication equipment, office furniture and equipment. The procurement will be
done usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreedwith or satisfactory to the
Bank.

150.    Selectionof Consultants: The project will participate infinancing the technical
functions and the financial management and procurement functions of the PCU. Technical
functions of the PCUthat will be supported include providingtechnical support for the health
sector, line ministries and civil society implementing agencies. Consultants will be hiredto
provide specific technical services and/or conduct studies and researchunder each of the project
components. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

151. Training: The Project will support training for institutionalcapacity building for health
care workers, CSOs and Government entities as well as for direct project interventions within
eachof the project components for target population groups (youth, MSMCSW and PLWHA)
and the general population. A variety of methods will be utilizedincluding workshops, training
of trainers, peer education, community fairs and expositions, in-school formal and informal
education programs, workplace education programs and study (local and international) trips to
share best practices. Healthcare workers will be trained inIEC/BCC interventions, the
managementof HIV/STI/TBand PMTCT including counseling and testing, post exposure


                                                 55

prophylaxis, medical waste management; operation and maintenance of new equipment.
CHART, UWIand other technical agencies will be involved incurriculumdevelopment and
development of training materials. Project management, monitoring and evaluation and
fiduciary skills will be providedfor staff of the MOH, involvednon-health line ministries, and
csos.

152.    OperatingCosts: will includeproject management and administration costs including
office space, utilities, supplies, per diems and transport costs associated with execution of the
project. These items will be procured using proceduresdefined inthe operational manual
reviewed and found acceptableto the Bank.

153.    The procurement procedures and SBDs to be usedfor each procurement method, as well
as modelcontracts for works and goods procured, are presentedinthe Project Operations
Manual.

B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement

154.    The project will be coordinated by the PCUinthe NationalHIV/STIProgram (NHP) of
the MOH. The PCUconsistsof an experienced team of professionals that coordinated
implementation of the first World Bank financed HIV/AIDS project. The staff has beentrained
inWorld Bankproceduresandhasperformed satisfactory under the first project. The team also
has experience with implementing other donor-funded projects including the GFATMgrant.
The unit is headedby a Senior MedicalOfficer who directs a core staff that includes the
coordinators for the project components and subcomponents, an M&Eofficer, a financial
manager and a procurement manager and their supporting technical and administrative staff. The
fiduciary unit also managesthe grant funds from the GFATM.

155.    An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agencies to carry out procurement
for the project was carried out by the Bank inJanuary, 2008. The assessment reviewed the
organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's
staff responsible for procurement and the national procurement authorities. The mission focused
on the capacity of the NHP incontracts managementusing bothWorld Bank and Government
procedures within the MOH. The main findings and recommendations of the assessment are
summarized inthe following paragraphs.

156.     ProcurementResponsibility: The PCU will be responsible for all procurement activities,
including procurement planning, procurement processes, contract award and contract
information system. The PCU will performprocurement processesfor the four line ministries
participating inthe project. The procurement team is comprised of a Procurement Officer with
strong qualifications and experience inWorld Bankproceduresand two procurement assistants
who have more than three years experience inhandling World Bank and other donor's
procurement and an excellent filing system. The procurement team i s familiar with the Bank
bidding documents for Works, Goods and Services and has been able to handle a large number
of contracts in a manner acceptableto the Bank under the current HIV/ AIDS project. Keeping
these skills i s of great benefit to the Ministry of Health.




                                                   56

157.    The needto strengthenthe procurement capacity was identified duringthe capacity
assessment of the regional procurement managementunit of the South East Regional Health
Authority. The unit i s composed of a procurement managerwho supervises a procurement
officer and a one-year consultant working through a very weak organizational system. The unit
does not have an adequateprocurement planning capability. The general experience of staff in
thisregional unit is lessthan two years and Nationalprocurementprocedures are utilizedfor all
contracts awarded for all donors financed activities. The team does not have the required skills
inWorld Bank procurement guidelines andprocedures. Basedon the findingsof the assessment
itwas recommendedthat the process aprocurement specialist with the necessaryqualifications
and experiencebe recruited as soon as the project becomes effective. Inthe meantime, the PCU
will provide support to the region untilthe necessary capacity i s inplace. Other measuresto
strengthenthe procurement capacity within the four regions will be taken, including training.

158.    ProcurementEnvironment:Thejoint Country FinancialandProcurement Assessment
(CFANCPAR) carried out by the World Bank and Inter American Development Bank in 2005
and approved in2006 identified anumber of weaknessesinthe Jamaicanprocurement system. It
identifieda significant number of improvements neededto render the systemmore transparent.

159.    Issuesidentifiedinthe (CFANCPAR) report pertaining to procurement statistics,
supplier's registration, procurement performance and monitoring and capacity are still valid and
relevant. The discrepanciesbetween the national procurement system thresholds and the World
Bank thresholds for projects inJamaica also negatively impact the procurement processes and
schedules.

160.    NationalProcurementSystemand Thresholds: The MOFPShas overall responsibility
for the public sector procurement systemincluding direct responsibilities for informing sector
procurement policy, monitoring the implementation of those policies particularly with regard to
public expenditures, and facilitating a proper understanding of the governing documentation
service-wide. The Contractor General, inaccordance with the contractor general act, monitors
and investigates the award of contracts.

        a) According to Government of Jamaica (GOJ) procurement guidelines procurement
            functional responsibilities are sharedby the following entities:
        b) NationalContractsCommission(NCC):promote efficiencyinthe processof award
            of government contracts and review procuring entities contract award
            recommendations for procurement of Goods, Services and Works with estimated
            values equal or above J$4 million.
        c) NationalContractsCommissionSector Commission(NCCSC): reviews procuring
            entities contract's award recommendation.
        d) ProcurementCommittees:Eachentity is requiredto establish aprocurement
            committee consisting of not less than four (4) persons appropriate to the needs of the
           entity. The PC comprises the following: - Chairman, Senior Financial management
            Personnel, Secretary, and Procurement Officer (non voting member).
        e) MOFPSi s the focal point for information and clarification of public sector
           procurement.
        f) The AccountingOfficerenforcesthe procedures.



                                                 57

161.    Having various levels of clearancefor procurement i s desirable but it also results in
delays during contracts processing and projects implementation. Basedon randomly selected
cases, it appearsthat the endorsement of contracts award by the National Contracts Commission
(NCC) following bidsevaluation by national entities or agency, takes between two weeks to five
months. Delays inclearanceof contract awards negatively impact the project implementation
schedule and achievement of its objectives.

162.    The expenditures authorizations required before aprocurement entity may enter into a
contract are currently as follows:


  I Threshold                                      Authorities
    Less than J$4,000,000                          Agency or Ministry shall approve subject
                                                   to procedures included herein.
    FromJ$4,000,000 but less than                  Minister shall approve on the
    5$15,000,000                                   recommendation of the NCC.
    5$15,000,000 and above                         Cabinet, on the recommendation of the
                                                   NCC and minister.



163.    Specific thresholds are defined for the useof eachparticular method for procurement of
Goods, Services and Works. Most of these thresholds are also bottlenecks to the fluidity of
procurement management systemas they sometimesconflict with thresholds set by World Bank
for projects that it finances inJamaica.

164.     ActionPlan:Basedon the abovereview, the following measureshavebeenagreedto
improve procurement processes.

    e   Hiringa Procurement Specialist with acceptablequalifications and experienceto assist
        the South East Regional Health authority. In the meantime the PCU will provide support
        to the region.
    e   Training inprocurement provided by the Bank to the PCU includingregional staff
        following loan approval. Further training to be provided duringthe first year of
        implementation as a capacity buildingactivity.
    e   Update of the procurement procedures inthe operations manual, detailing roles and
        responsibilities and flow of documentation.

165.    Inaddition to the above action plan, the procurement thresholds and methodshavebeen
set to mitigate the procurement risk. The overall project risk for procurement i s moderate.

C. ProcurementPlan

166.    The Borrower has submitted the procurement plan for the first 18 months of project
implementation. Itprovides the basis for the procurement methods. The plan i s acceptable to
the Bank. It will be available inthe project's databaseand inthe Bank's external website. The



                                                58

   Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement annually or as required to reflect the actual
   project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

   D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

    167.     Inaddition to the prior review supervision to becarried out from Bank offices, the
   capacity assessment of the ImplementingAgency has recommended at least a supervision
   mission each six months to visit the field. Post review of procurement actions will be carried out
   once a year.

   E. Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternational Competition

    168.     The following arethe detailed arrangementsfor international competition.

    1. GoodsandNonConsultingServices



1     2               3            4            5       6           7               8          9

Ref.  Contract        Estimated    Procurement  P-Q     Domestic    Review          Expected   Comments
No.   (Description)   Cost         Method               Preference  by Bank         Bid-
                      (US$)                             (yedno)     (Prior / Post)  Opening
                                                                                    Date
G1    Autoclave       1,800,000    ICB                  NA          Prior           March
                                                                                    2009
G2    Reagentsfor 60,000           DC                   NA          Prior           April 2008
      Syphilis
G3    Reagentsfor 20,000           DC                   NA          Prior           Dec 2008
      TB Lab
G4    HIVTesting 200,000           DC                   NA          Prior           April 2008
      K i t s
G5    ReprintIEC      60,000       DC                   NA          Prior           Jul2008
      material
G6    Laboratory      132,000      DC                   NA          Prior          May 2008
      Information
      System
      Phase 11




   2. ConsultingServices

       (a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.



      Ref. No.       Description of   Estimated  Selection     Review       Expected    Comments
                     Assignment       cost       Method        by Bank     Proposals


                                                     59

                                 (US$)                      (Prior I        Submission
                                                            Post)           Date


   (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost aboveUS$lOO,OOO per contract and single source
        selection of consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

   (c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
        services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be
        composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
        2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

F.Thresholds for Procurement MethodsandPrior Review

Recommendedthresholds for use of the procurement methods to be specified inthe legal
agreement and for Bank prior review of procurement actions are identifiedin the table below.
Specific contracts which are subject to prior review will be detailed inthe Procurement Plan
agreed at negotiations.




                             I                     I                                  I
                                      >1.500                      ICB                     All
  I                          I       150-1,500     I              NCB                I   None   I
                                      <150                     Shopping                  None
   2. Goods                           >150                     ICB/ LIB                   All
  I                          I        50-150       I              NCB                I    Non    I
                                       <so                     Shopping                  None
                                Regardlessof value         Direct Contracting             All
   3. ConsultingServices
   -3.A Firms                         >loo                QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS                All
                                      <loo                QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS,              None
                                                               and CQS
                                Regardlessof value           Single Source                All
   -3.B Individuals             Regardlessof value  Comparisonof 3 CVs inaccordance      None
                                                     with Chapter V of the Guidelines




                                                  60

                            Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                                Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Project

169.    There are compelling arguments for public intervention to address HIV/AIDS inJamaica:
HIV/AIDS is acommunicable diseasewhich inflicts negative externalities on society and a
purely private responseis, therefore, likely to fall short of the social optimum: information
regarding HIV transmission i s imperfect; HIV makes people vulnerable to other infectious
diseases including tuberculosis; some individuals such as spouses, newborns, victims of rape,
accident victims who needbloodtransfusions cannot control their own risk to HIV infection; and
early intervention is necessary to reduce the costs of treatment and mitigation inlatter years.

170.     Jamaica faces macroeconomic challenges including a highdebt stock. Resources
available to combat HIV/AIDS are limited and need to be focused on the most cost-effective
interventions.

171.    The World Bank has applied the Allocation by Cost-effectiveness (ABC) model in
Honduras, Panamaand Guatemala. The modelfocuses on prevention programs only and does
not impose trade-offs between funding prevention against treatment and care. It analyzes
alternative resource allocations differentiated by strategy and target population group. Findings
from application of the modelindicated that a substantial impact can be obtained even with
limited resources. The most cost-effective interventions were: condom distribution targeted to
high-risk groups; information, education and communication for high-riskgroups, including
CSWs, MSM,and prisoners; and, VCT. It was estimated that with an optimal allocation for
these interventions, US$ 1.0 million would prevent between 5,100 and 12,000 infections,
corresponding to between 11% and 19%of primary and secondary infections. Inclusionof
secondary infections allows for the multiplier effects of prevention in some subgroups. The cost
per infection averted was inthe range of US$84and US$196. Another finding i s that at a budget
of US$10million, only about 25% of all primary and secondary infections can be prevented
becauseit becomes increasingly difficult to reach certain population groups that are at highest
risk. This impliesthat after acertain threshold, there is needto go beyondthese interventions to
fund strategies that leadto expandedcoverage, including reduction of stigma, decriminalization
of certain behaviors, increasedservice coverageetc. However, it i s noted that governments do
not allocate resources solely on the basis of cost-effectiveness. For ethical andhuman rights
reasons other interventions at a given budget constraint level (e.g. at US$5 million inthis case),
would be less cost-effective. These include such as safe blood and prevention of mother to child
transmission which may be selectedby a Government for inclusioninthe basic packageof
services. These recent findings are inline with earlier findings on the cost-effective
interventions below.
172.    The table below, adaptedfrom Jha et al. (2001)'' summarizes ranges of values from the
literature relating to the cost-effectiveness of some of the most frequent interventions in
HIV/AIDS prevention andtreatment.



l9 P.,etal.(2001)"The evidencebaseforinterventions topreventHIVinfectioninlowandmiddle-
   Jha,
   income countries". Background paper of the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, the World
    Health Organization.


                                                  61

                  Cost-Effectiveness of Different Types of Interventions (US$)




    infection
    averted
    Cost per       $0.35-     $9.45       $12.77-       $10.51         $66.2         $720-
    DALY           0.52                   17.78                                      $2,355
    saved


173.    Individual country programs will maximizethe number of infections averted and the
number of Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) saved if they were to ensure that the most
cost-effective interventions obtain sufficient attention and financing. Countries that propose to
finance HAART should particularly be attentive to making sure that preventive interventions that
are known to be cost-effective are not crowded out inthe process. Jamaica has selected a
comprehensive approachwhich has funding for preventive interventions both for targeting high-
risk as well as for reachingthe generalpopulation inaddition to the proposed scalingup of
treatment and care.

174.    With the combination of the Government's own budget, the proposedproject and the
GFATMgrants, Jamaica will be able to finance its priority interventions within the NHP.
175.    The cost-effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy inthe Caribbean was studied using the
Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications (CEPAC) international model, an
adaptation of the CEPAC US model, a state-transition simulation modelof HIV diseasein
resource-limited settings. Projections were made for survival, cost, and cost-effectiveness of
treating and HIV-infectedcohort inthe Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). The
data usedwas from the Jamaica HIV/AIDS Tracking System, a national surveillance database
and projections. The results indicated that without treatment, mean survival was 2.3 years. One
ART regimen addedan additional 5.86 years of survival benefit compared with no treatment.
The incremental cost-effectiveness ration was US$690 per year of life saved. A secondregimen
added 1.04 years of survival benefit. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was US$10,960
per year of live saved. Results depended on the cost of ART second-line drugs and the per-
person lifetime costs decreasedfrom U S $17,020 to $ 9,290 if the costs of second-line drugs
decreasedto those available internationally.

176.    Inlinewith the foregoing examples, Jamaicahas selectedarangeof internationally
recognizedcost-effective interventions for implementing its strategic HIV/AIDS plan for the
period2007 to 2012. They include STImanagement, interventions for high risk groups,
voluntary testing and counseling, prevention of mother-to-child transmission and antiretroviral
treatment. The expandedprogram covering ART (not available inthe last Bank-financed


2oUNAIDS
  UNAIDS:BrazilProgram


                                                 62

project) was madepossible through Jamaica's successful application for grant funds from the
Global Fundfor AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM). Inthe thirdround of the GFATM,
Jamaica securedUS$23.3 million. These funds together with the Bank loan of US$15 million
(later reduced to US$ 10.6 million because of fiscal constraints) enabled the Government to
expand its program. With the new HIV/AIDS strategic plan, the Government has selected the
priority interventions for a comprehensive approach including prevention, treatment, care and
support.

177.      Fundingavailable includes the US$6.9 million balancefrom the thirdround grant and
US$44.2 million recently approved under round 7 of GFATM. The availability of the grant over
the next five years reducesthe recurrent cost implication arising from the Bank project which is
designedto complement the GRAM grant. Inaddition, the Government will provide US$ 1
million to cover the incrementalcapital and recurrent costs. The Government has also initiated a
processof increasingbudgetary allocations to the MOHfor staff costs and other related expenses
inabidto initiatethe medium-term sustainability of the responseto the HIV/AIDSepidemic.

178.    The PIOJi s developing a model (Threshold 21 Model) for projecting the impact of
HIV/AIDS. The modelwill beusedto assess the effectiveness of different interventions and will
be used as a tool for improvingresource allocation.




                                                63

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues

                   Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Prevention & Control Project

                                   Medical Waste Management

179.     Background: In2003, a comprehensive assessment of current waste management
practices and treatment capabilities at all major public healthcare facilities was undertaken. The
study concluded that inter alia current waste managementpractices are poor due mainly to
economic constraints on healthcarefacility funding, and that most healthcare facilities treat their
medical waste with very old (over 20 years) and poorly maintained on-site incinerators or `burn
boxes'. Of the 29 incinerators assessed, 26 were found to be unfit for the treatment of medical
waste and i s a serious concern for public health and the environment (Crown Agent 2003). It was
recommended that incinerators be phased-out and alternative technology be implemented for the
treatment of infectious medical waste on a regional basis. A new program strategy aimed at
improvingthe overall management of medical waste in all health regions to safeguardagainst
public health and the environment was developed. The underlying elements of this strategy
included waste minimization, waste segregation and regional waste collection and treatment
facilities.

180.     This framework entails:
     DraftingNationalMedicalWaste Management Policy, Standards and Guidelines;
     Standardizing waste managementprocedures in all healthcare facilities;
     Training of healthcare staff inproper waste managementand post exposureprophylaxis;
     Implementingfour regional medical waste collection systems and treatment facilities with
     specialized medical waste collection vehicles and alternative technology.

Achievements:

181.     Over the 4 year period2003 - 2007, the following hasbeen achieved:
     Comprehensive assessment of current waste managementpractices and treatment
     capabilities have been conducted at all major public healthcare facilities (2003);
     Technical evaluation of medical waste generation, regional treatment capacity requirement,
     and the selection of an appropriate alternative treatment technologies have been completed
     (2005); The estimatedbudget for the implementation of the four regional collection and
     treatment systems was also done;
     Cabinet approval have beenreceived (March 2006) for the implementation of the Regional
     Medical Waste Collection and Treatment systems intwo phases; Phase 1to be implemented
     inthe SoutheastHealthRegion andPhase 2 to beimplemented inthe other threehealth
     regions - Southern, Western and Northeast;
     Environmental ImpactAssessment of the proposed southeastregional treatment facility
     undertaken between the periods March to September 2007. The final EIA report was posted
     on several websites and key stakeholders (governmental and nongovernmental) as well as
     members of the public was consulted as part of the process. The final public consultation
     took place on September 13,2007.



                                                 64

    Procurement of the turnkey contract for the supply and installation of the Southeast Regional
    Medical Waste Collection and Treatment system have been completed (August 2007);
    SEEN Environment from Martinique with the ECODAS steam sterilization and technology
    from France was selected and implementation o f the facility have commenced;
    Draft National Medical Waste Management Policy has been completed (January 2006) and
    i s currently awaiting approval from Cabinet; the Draft National Medical Waste Management
    StandarddGuidelineshave been completed (April 2007) and i s currently awaiting approval
    by the Ministry of Health;
    Waste disposal supplies and materials including (step-on bins, biohazardwaste bags, sharps
    containers, labels, notices, posters, personalprotective equipment, etc) have been provided
    at all HIV treatment sites to augment their resources and facilitate waste segregation and
     standardization of waste management procedures;
     Several training sessions have been conducted for approximately 1,000 healthcare workers
     (including Doctors, Nurses, Pharmacists, Orderlies, etc.) inproper management of medical
    waste and post exposure prophylaxis;
    Waste Audit on waste generation in have began in 15 healthcare facilities. The result will
    form the base line against other future assessments.

Challenges:

182.    While much has been accomplished, there are still a number of challenges.

183.    Management Support - The management o f individual treatment sites have been very
supportive with the implementation o f the waste management program at their facilities.
However, management o f the Ministryo f Health and/or the Regional Health Authorities needs to
do more inorder to institutionalizethe program. The success o f the medical waste management
program cannot be sustained without the support o f senior management facilitating the provision
of requisitebudget and posts/personnel for proper infection control and/or waste management at
healthcare facilities.

184.    Procurement and approval process -The procurement and approval process required,
particularly as it relates to waste disposal supplies and the regional collection and treatment
system, i s very lengthy, taking a minimumof six months. This impacts negatively on the
implementation schedule o f key activities

185.    Waste Disposal Supplies & Materials - Most treatment sites and healthcare facilities on a
whole are lacking the budget to provide adequate and consistent quantity and quality waste
disposal supplies to fully implement and sustain the requisite waste segregation and
standardization procedures. Inmany instances the required items are mainly provided through
donations and gifts from local and international agencies;

186.    Medical Waste Treatment Facilities - The other three health regions are lacking an
appropriate treatment system. Incinerators or `burn-boxes' are the only treatment option
available, albeit unsuitably designed, old and poorly maintained. Therefore, the proper treatment
o f medical waste continues to be significantly compromised. With respect to pharmaceuticaland
hazardous waste, particularly chemotherapy agents, there i s no appropriate treatment technology



                                                  65

available island wide. Consequently, large stockpiles are in stored at several hospitals and/or
illegally disposed. This continues to occupy much needed space at the respective facilities and
threatenpubic health and the environment.

187.    MedicalWaste Generation and Segregation- There i s limited documentation on medical
waste generation inJamaica. Plans to implement a comprehensive waste quantification study at
the treatment sites to establish empirical baseline data have been delayed due to procurement
issues. Proper waste handling and segregationactivities continue to be challenged by institutions
inconsistent procurement of waste disposal supplies and personalprotective equipment. Another
contributing factor i s the poor attitude towards medical waste managementand infectioncontrol
amonghealthcare staff. These have all contributed to numerous occupational injuries such as
needle sticks and accidental exposure to blood and body fluids.

188.    Training -Though severaltraining sessionshave been conducted with all levels of
healthcareworkers inproper medical waste managementand post exposureprophylaxis,
numerous incidents of occupational injuries continues to occur. There i s therefore a needfor on-
going training of healthcare workers.

Proposal for Follow-on Project:

189.    There are many additional activities necessaryto realize the effective management of
medical waste inJamaica. The following table seeks to provide a compressive list of these
activities which include the development of legislative framework, the procurement of treatment
systems, infrastructure related issues and capacity building within healthcare facilities. The
estimatedcosts of these activities are inexcess of US$SM.

Activity                                                                                 Estimated Budget
                                                                                          (US$)
Reaulatorv Framework
1. Draftnew NationalMedicalWaste Management Regulation.                                            20,000
Medical Waste TreatmentFacilities
2. Implement one alternative treatment technology per Crown Agent Report
    recommendation with supporting storage and collection systems for medical




    c) Pending this decision carry out an indepth assessment (including air
        quality, economic analysis) of the three incinerators recommended to




                                                  66

6. Hazardous material disposal (chemicals, pharmaceutical, cytotoxic waste)
   a) Examine the feasibility of treating hazardous and pharmaceutical waste                       NIA
        from health care facilities inmajor private sector incinerators.
   b) Examine the feasibility of establishing collaboration with owners of major                   NIA
        incinerators to treat hazardous and pharmaceutical waste from health care
        facilities.
   c) Iffeasible, establish collaboration and operating procedures (collection,                    NIA
        transportation, and handling).
   d) Ifnot, assess the requirements for implementing a new hazardouswaste                       10,000
        treatment facility with alternative treatment technology such as pyrolysis.
   e) Procure alternative treatment equipment for treatment of hazardous waste                1,000,000
Other infrastructure related issues
7. Procurerequisite equipment to facilitate the NationalPublic HealthLab in                       TBD
   conducting air quality assessments and measuretoxicity of incinerator ash.
8. Implement proceduresincluding necessaryequipment to verify that treated                        TBD
    waste residues and liquid effluent meet nationallinternational regulatory
    standards.
9. Establish interim storage facilities including refrigeratedunits at healthcare
    facilities within the southeast and western health regions to support the regional




19. Provide training to staff for operation and maintenanceof new equipment.            Part of contract
20. Guidelines for pharmaceutical and hazardous waste                                             8,000
                                                                                      TBD 3.992.000
                                                                                           +

Given the cap of the loan and the budget allocated for Waste Management, the activities that
have been prioritized for funding under the second World Bank project include:

Medical Waste TreatmentFacilities
(a) Implement one alternative treatment technology per Crown Agent Report recommendation
   with supporting storage and collection systems for medical waste management.


                                                 67

(b) Procuremaintenanceservice contract including parts andlabor of the treatment equipment.
(c) Procure waste disposal supplies and materials to augment resources inall health regions, thus
    encouraging proper segregationpractices.
(d) Develop requisite documentsto ensurethe efficient andproper operation of the regional
    treatment and collection systems. These include:
         StandardOperating Procedures for waste collection and transportation of collection
         vehicles
         Environmental Management and Monitoring Planfor eachregional treatment facility
         Emergency and Contingency ResponsePlan to deal with such events during
         transportation and at treatment facility
         Management, Operations, and Maintenance Plan
         Operation and Maintenance Manual for treatment facility and collection vehicles
         Training Plan for staff operating the collection vehicles and the treatment equipment

Capacity Building

(e) Develop MedicalWaste Management Training material including a Manual, pocket guides,
    posters and other relevant training tools.
(f) Print anddisseminateNationalMedicalWaste Management PolicyandGuidelines; Training
    Manual; Pocket guides; Posters, Notices and Labels, etc.
(g) Train healthcareworkers inmedical waste management andpost exposureprophylaxis,
    including four regional 'Training of Trainers' workshops.
(h) Conduct fieldtrip (nationalhernational) to sharebestpractices.
(i)Providetrainingtostaffforoperationandmaintenanceofnewequipment.

                                          Social Assessment

190.     The social assessmentpresents a synopsis of the social aspects of HIV/AIDS inJamaica,
that is, the contextual factors that both drive the epidemic and influence the types of responses
putinplace to stemthe spreadof HIV. Elucidatingthe social context helps inunderstanding
how behavioral, socio-cultural, economics, age, gender, religion and politics, all add to the
complexity of HIV/AIDS prevention and control efforts. The report concludes with proposals
for dealing with some of these factors for priority highrisk groups for the NHP and the Bank-
financed project. The social assessment has drawn heavily from the consultation work during
preparation new NSP and lessonsfrom first HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project.

191.     Methodology. This social assessment i s basedon: a literature review; participation inthe
18" Annual Retreat and Planning Review Workshop (17-19 October 2007) for staff of the NHP;
interviews with key health personnel including medical officers, Behavior Change
Communication (BCC) officers, Targeted Intervention Officers (TIOs), and Community Peer
Educators (CPE). Field visitsz2in Kingston and meetings were held with representativesfrom
NGOsanddonor agencies supporting the HIV/STIprogram.

192.     Social and Cultural Norms and Social Vulnerability. Individualbehavior i s shapedby
society. Among the factors leading to risky behavior for HIV and STIinfections are: early

** DuringWorld BankprojectpreparationMission January 14-22,2008


                                                  68

socialization of children into specific gender roles (male adolescents adapt attitudes and
behaviors, which promote "manhood" while female adolescents are under pressureto engage in
early sex as well as transactional sex with older men); promotion of sex by musical artistes, the
media and internet messages; inadequatelife skills messages supporting responsible behaviors
such as delaying sex and using condoms; societal intolerance for men who have sex; and
religious factions that "preach" against access to condoms especially for minors without offering
adequate alternatives. The population survey (KABP 2004), points to the persistenceof risky
behaviors. Fifty percent (50%) of men reported having multiple partners; 20% of men and 20%
of women participated intransactional sex; 30% of men and 40% of women didnot use condoms
with non-regular partners. Only 36% of young men and 40% of young women were able to
correctly identify ways of preventing HIV and reject major misconceptions about HIV.
Similarly, a 2005 survey of sex workers indicated that 32% of HIV negative CSW and 18% of
HIV positive CSW were able to correctly identify ways to prevent HIV infection. Among
adolescents, the median age of first sex declined to 15.7 (males) and 17.2 (females) in2004. A
2005, survey of in-school adolescents (10 to 15 years old) reported that 12% of those surveyed
admitted to being sexually active, 56% had2 or more partners, and 48% reported no condom use
at last sex. Peer pressureto engage in sex i s very strong among adolescentsespecially the poor
and their knowledge of basic biology, family planning and STIs i s very limited.23 Only 40% of
boys and 50% of girls use a condom at first sex and once sexual activity i s initiated, multiple
sexual partnerships are

193.    Although heterosexual transmission i s cited as the mainroute of transmission of HIV,the
sexual practice of 40% of reported male AIDS cases i s unknown. Among reported male AIDS
cases on whom data about sexual practices are available (60% of cases), homosexual or bisexual
activity i s reported by 14%. MSMhave the highest rates of HIV infection (20 - 30%); 50% of
MSMreporthaving sex with awoman inthe past year25;some have agirlfriendinorder to
disguise their sexual orientation. Stigma and discrimination have driven many MSM
`underground' resulting in delayed access to treatment. Other at risk and/or vulnerable groups
are children below 15 years orphanedby AIDS (over 5,000 children), street and working
children; and men inmale dominated professions (taxi drivers, policemen, firemen and car
mechanics). These men are involved with CSW and intransactional sex, sometimes with under
age girls.

194.    Gender roles and inequities increaserisk for boys (have multiple partners) and girls (seek
to show they can attract working men and engage intransactional sex). There is an increase in
violence against young girls: In2004, about 93% of crimes against girls aged 14 andunder were
cases of rape or carnal abuse and 40% of all cases26for the 15-24years age groups. The gender
gap ininfection rates i s narrowingwith a high increaseinthe number of newly reported female
AIDS cases aged 15 to 29 years. The increaseinthe female AIDS casedfor the age group 15-24
years i s reported to be three times that of their male counterparts. Such findings may be linked
to:forced sex, sexual intercourse with HZV-infected older men and transactional sex. Gender



23Adolescent Health Survey, 1997
24Adolescent Health Survey, 1997
25Murphyet al, 1988
26Jamaica Constabulary Force, Police Statistics Department


                                                       69

inequalities have also contributed to the thriving sex industry and inturn to the growing HIV
epidemic.

195.     InJamaica anestimated 20% of the population is saidto bebelow the poverty line. The
most affected are those inthe inner city and rural areas. The challenges of daily existence27may
force the very poor and unemployed especially young girls forced out of school due to pregnancy
to make choices that put them at risk of HIV, such as going into commercial sex work.

196.     Stigma and discrimination remain pervasive and present a serious challenge to Jamaica's
responseto HIV/AIDS. Homophobia hinders efforts to provide universal access to prevention,
treatment, care and support to MSMs who are at risk for violent attacks; 50% of MSMreport
having sex with a woman inthe past year28and many MSMhave a girlfriend; refuse to get tested
for HIV due to their fear of discrimination. Also, sources inthe private sector and some public
sector establishments support and practice HIV-screeningfor purposesof exclusion from
employment and educational opportunities. Furthermore, the principles of privacy and
confidentialityinrespect of HIV testing and disclosure are often times breached. Religious
groups oppose homosexuality on the basis of religious and moral principles. As a result they
oppose policy and supportive legislative options to protect the rights of groups such MSMand
CSWs. However, there are indications, that discriminatory attitudes towards PLWHA are slowly
improving, at least among women2', although stigma (will keep HIV status a secret: urban 55%;
rural 5%) and discrimination (will not buy food from person with HIV/AIDS: urban 52% and
rural 54%) appear to be persistent. Support from many families has been constrained by
misconceptions leading to discrimination inthe home. The lack of high-level support from
politicians and other leaders for messages and interventions dealing with risk reduction and
increasedaccess to treatment care and support targeted to certain at-risk groups such as sexually-
active minors, MSM,incarcerated men, CSWs and those inplaces where other forms of
transactional sex are practiced translates to a political environment that offers minimal support
for any policy positionor law reform seeking to increase access to condom use and treatment for
such at-risk groups.

197.     Scaling up Interventions that Work. Prevention. The NHP i s implementing a
Behavior Change and Communications (BCC) Strategy. The HIV prevention strategy has
utilized a risk reduction framework that identifies existing high risk sexual behaviors and
designing specific behavior change communications (BCC) interventions that decrease the risks.
Implementation i s carried out be the BCC team through the RegionalHealthAuthorities'
outreach /mobile workers, Community Peer Educators and Targeted Intervention Officers who
have employed a series of innovative methods and educational tools to reach diverse audiences
of at-risk groups. Although prevention activities, particularly the IEC and other media
messages3', have been designedto cover the general and `secondary' population^^^, priority

27Conversionswith CSWs-one relatedhow her boyfriendbecame abusive and finally left her andtheir baby with
no means of support. She decidedlast year to go into prostitutionbecausethe moneywas assured; she worked when
she neededto and spent time with her child as she only workednights.
28Murphy et al, 1988
29Results of a 2005 evaluationof women aged 15-49
30 Priority H N Prevention Messages are: You are at higher risk if you have multiple partners; Use a condom in
every sex act; Abstaiddelay sexual initiation; Stick to one faithful uninfected partner; Seek early and complete
treatment for STI; You can't tell by looking; Know your H N status; and SupportPLWHA


                                                       70

interventions have focused on the following populations:-in-school adolescents especially the
sexually active; out-of-school youth (including those inthe category of Men who have sex with
Men (MSM), sex workers, and those institutionalized or incarcerated); Commercial Sex Workers
(CSWs) (on the street, at clubs, massage parlors, social events); MSM; Adults aged 20-49 inhigh
transmission and low-income areas; and PLWHA- specifically focusing on (i)                        secondary
prevention, (ii)  stigma and discrimination, (iii)       adherenceto ARV medications.

198.     The education sector is strategically positioned to reach and to impact the risk behaviors
of a group of children and adolescentswho are vulnerable to HIV and STIs. Also relevant inthe
school context is the establishment of a non-discriminatory environment. This requires
structured and sustainedinterventions that must include the following: Increasing the capacity
inthe sectorto (i)   implement life skills-based HFLEthat seeks to impact the behavior formation
and modificationof the beneficiaries; and (ii)          overcome the culturalresistancethat often plagues
educators on the topic of sexuality. Support for the development of policies that will contribute
to a supportive environment for the reduction of stigma and discrimination within the sector.
Interventions are neededfor out-of school youth, CSWs (challenging group due to mobility, with
low literacy rates, harboring myths about STIs, they have more than one main partner, and they
are dependent on their peers. They need: positive peer experiencesand repeatedinteractions e.g.
empowerment workshops. Many PLWHA and their organizations such as the Jamaica Network
for Sero-positives (JN+) and JASL are integrallyinvolvedinplanning, implementation,
governance, and evaluation of services and various other interventions. They play an important
role in: combating stigma and discrimination; HIV education; and adherencecounseling. Stigma,
discrimination and acts of hostility against personsliving with HIV and AIDS are major factors
that help to drive the epidemic underground as persons who may be infected are unwilling to
discover their status and so avoid being tested. It i s estimated that up to 15,000people do not
know their HIV status. NGOs will contribute to the scaling up by providingrapid testing
including inrural areas. Sexually Transmitted Infections treatment could be used as entry points
for testing of at-risk populations (5% of STIclinic attendees are HIVpositive).

199.     There has been an emphasis on evidence-busedinterventions and thus researchhas been
conducted to informprogram choices. Innovativework has beendone with the PLACE
(Priorities for Local AIDS Control Efforts) pilot studies directed at sites where persons are likely
to meet new sex partners. The rationale for this intervention was the needfor a new prevention
approachbecauseJamaica hadreacheda prevention plateau with respectto the use of condoms
as the primary mode of prevention - the level of reported condom use with non-regular partners
appearsto be stable at 77% for males and 67% for females. Among the key challenges to
prevention efforts are: insufficientchange inhigh-riskbehaviors; stagnation incondom use;
persistent inaccurate perceptions about HIV and AIDS affecting risk assessment; homophobia;
health servicerelated obstacles, including stigma and discrimination, which threaten the quality
of and access to prevention services.

200.     The project will support: scaling up the innovative work for Youth in school with special
attention on those aged 10-14 years inthe parishes of St. Thomas, St. Catherine and St. James to


31 The `secondary populations' include opinion leaders or influentials in the community and any other stakeholders
who interface with the priority populations (e.g. business sector leaders, entertainers, Church leaders).



                                                         71

other schools across the country (students inthese parishes are exposed to a comprehensive
education package, behavior modeling and leadership training for the studentsto work with their
peers); increasedinvolvement of night club operators and other stakeholders including the
tourism industryinimplementation of risk reduction interventions including a condoms
promotionand distribution; policy and health checks for their employees; continued efforts to
identify and train members of the MSMgroup- as training of trainers- and to provide risk
reduction skills, referral to STI/HIV test and treatment along with adherence and positive
prevention; collaboration among the MOH, NGOs, and other government agenciesthat provide
work skills training so as to help empower this group to reduce their social vulnerability and
assistthem inentering thejob market.

201.    The project will also expand outreach to male dominated occupations, especially taxi and
bus operators, police and auto-mechanics; education and trainingfor clinicians and other health
personnel with the view to building a non-discriminatory and friendly environment for people
living with HIV/AIDs that seek treatment; expand current work on counseling (pre andpost
testing) and testing; and undertake in-depth and systematic stock-taking through behavioral
surveys to track changes inhighrisk groups. Results of studies on the attitudes and behavioral
patternsrelated to the use (or non- use) of condoms among CSWs, adult males, and MSMs
should informprogram activities.

202.    Participation of NGOs should be scaledup inthe following areas: strengthening the
prevention work at local grass roots community levels both inrural and inurban areas;
identifying innovative methods to approach and work with orphan children and HIV/AIDs
affected children ingeneral; and supporting NGOs working on the policy side of health and
health services for HIV/AIDS affected populations. Training will be providedto buildNGO
capacity inrisk reduction conversations and building self-efficacy for their clients.

203.    To address the limited institutionalcapacity of the NGOsand inorder to enhancetheir
capacity to deliver the agreed program, the BCC program will: revise and sharpenthe current
project proposal template; identify a check list of the institutionalcapacities required by the
NGOsto implement sub-projects; undertake arapidcapacity audit of NGOsafter the selection of
their proposal andbefore program implementation starts; and review and revise proceduresfor
selecting proposals as necessary, and include the changes inthe Project Operations Manual.

204.    It is important to retain the staff of the BCC team and to identify incentives to improve
the working conditions of Community PeerEducators, and Targeted Intervention Officers.




                                                   72

                       Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision
                               Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project

                                                 Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                               October30, 2007          October 30, 2007
Initial PID to PIC                      November6,2007           October 30, 2007




Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the project:
        Ministry of Health
        Ministry of Finance andthe Public Service
        PlanningInstituteof Jamaica




RolandePryce                    306574 Counsel                                  LEGLA
EmmanuelN.Njomo                  4814 FinancialManagementSpecialist             LCSFM




RudyVan Puymbroeck               11819 Consultant,LegalSpecialist               LCSHH
Willy De Geyndt                  14355 Consultant,ManagementSpecialist          LCSHH
Mary Dowling                    175385 LanguageProgramAssistant                 LCSHD
                                                                     ~


Aracellv Woodall              ~  80600 Senior ProgramAssistantKOstinn          ~LCSHD

Peer reviewers: JonathanBrown(OperationsAdviser, HDNGA), PatrickOsewe (SeniorPublic
Health Specialist,WBIHD) andNadeemMohamed(Senior OperationsOfficer AFRHV).


                                             73

Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources:        U S$134,85 8.OO
   2. Trust funds:            US$ 40,000.00
   3. Total:                  US$174,858.00

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs: US$259,030.74
Estimated annual supervision cost: US$90,000 (includingfixed and variable costs)

205.   Supervision Strategy: The Task Team will provide implementation support for both
technical and fiduciary aspects of the project on a regular basis. There is already regular formal
and informal contact between the task team and the Government counterpart team which will be
maintained and strengthened. Field supervision missions will be conducted regularly, every six
months at a minimum. Inbetween missions, there will be regular implementation support and
review of project technical and fiduciary actions as required. Inbetween, the standardmissions,
periodic audiohideo-conference meetings will be conducted as necessaryto ensure regular
contact with the project Task Team through oversight of technical and fiduciary actions
summarized inthe project annual work plans. Missionteam compositions will cover both
required technical and fiduciary teams. Training, especially infiduciary management, will be
organized to help enhanceproject management. There i s already ongoing technical assistance
providedfor specialized areas coordinated by the Task Team involving other departments of the
World Bank and other external partners inthe areas o f strengthening monitoring and evaluation;
treatment and care; legal aspects; and strengthening involvement of the education, among others
which will continue to be part of supervision support. The Bank will encouragethe
participation of members of the Government counterpart team to participate inregional
knowledge sharing events organized by the Bank and other partners.




                                                74

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File

                           Jamaica Second HIV/AIDS Project

        HIV/AIDS Workplace Survey Employers. JLU The University of the West Indies.
        Preparedfor the Jamaica HIV/AIDS Prevention Control Project and UNAIDS Office
        Jamaica. March, 2006.

        HIV and AIDS inJamaica. National StrategicPlan 2007-2012. Draft. September
        2007.

        HIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean Region: A multi-organization Review (DFID,
        WHOPAHO, GFATM, UNAIDS Secretriat and the World Bank). October, 2005.

        Jamaica HIV/AIDSWorld Bank Follow on Project (Concept Paper and Project
        overview) May 17, 2007.

        Jamaica HIV/AIDSPrevention and Control Project: Aide-memoire of the Mid-Term
        Review Mission, April 25-29, 2005.

        Jamaica JFIT-CBHR Project Description (JICA).

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project: Aide-Memoire of the Supervision Mission and
        Identificationof the SecondJamaica HIV/AIDSProject, October 1-5,2005.

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project -Financial Assessment, January 2008.

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project -Assessment of the Health Sector Responseto the
        HIV/AIDS Epidemic, January 2008.

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project -Legal and Regulatory Environment. January
        2008.

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project - Assessment of Medical Waste Management.
        January 2008.

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDSProject -Procurement Assessment. January 2008.

        Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project - Social Assessment, January 2008.

        Jamaica, National Strategic Plan 2007-2012(Draft, September 2007 Version).

        Jamaica UNGASSReport January 2003 - December 2006. Declaration of
        Commitment on HIV/AIDS. Ministry of Health. Jamaica.




                                           75

JapanInternational CooperationAgency. New Strategyfor Humanresources
Development. JamaicaNewsletter. Volume XII, November2007.

JHPCP ClosureReport, Draft assessment of the JamaicaHIV/AIDS Preventionand
Control Project, September 2007.

Lindsey L.Wolf et al. The Cost-effectivenessof Antiretroviral Therapy for Treating
HIV Disease inthe Caribbean.J Acquir ImmuneDefic Syndr 2007; 46:463-471.

Ministry of Health. NationalHIV/AIDSPreventionand Control Project. Closure
Report. October, 2007.

Ministry of Health. NationalHIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project. Facts and
Figures. HIVIAIDS Epidemic Update. 2006.

National HIVIAIDS Policy, Jamaica. May, 2005.

Report on HIV/AIDS SecondgenerationSurveillanceSurvey (BSS) Among Female
Sex Workers, Jamaica, 2005.

Report of National Knowledge, Attitudes, Behavior andPractices(KABP) Survey,
2004. HopeEnterprises Ltd. Kingston, Jamaica.

TheRole of UNFPA inHIV/AIDS Preventionand Controlinthe English andDutch-
speaking (ESC) Caribbean.

UNESCO/Japan funds-in-trustco-operation(CBHR). I

UNICEF. Programmeof CooperationBetweenthe Governmentof Jamaica and
UNICEF. Country ProgrammeAction Plan. 2007 -2011. Reporton HIV/AIDS.

World Bank ReportNo. 30428. ProjectAppraisal Document. CentralAmerica
RegionalHIV/AIDS Project. March 3,2005.

World BankReportNo. 31830-JM. Country Assistance Strategy. April, 2005.

World Bank ReportNo. 39969-JM. Country Assistance Strategy. ProgressReportfor
Jamaica. July 19, 2007.

World BankReportNo. 23265-JM (January25,2001). HIV/AIDS Preventionand
Control Project (SecondPhaseof the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Preventionand
Control APL for the Caribbean).




                                   76

                                        Annex 13: StatementofLoansandCredits
                                               JamaicaSecondHIV/AIDS Project

                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expectedand actual
                                                                 OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                             disbursements

ProiectID  FY     F`uruose                                   IBRD        IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     F mRev'd
P109575    2008   JM HurricaneDeanERL                           10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.00      0.33         0.00
PO91299    2006   JM InnerCity Basic ServicesProject           29.30      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    25.95      2.25         0.00
PO71589    2003   JM- Reformof Secondary Ed. (ROSEII) 39.80               0.00     0.00     0.00    27.30     3.19      30.49        1.37
PO76837    2003   JM NationalCommunityDevt. Project             15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.58      0.41         0.00
PO67774    2002   JM- SocialSafetyNet Project                  40.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     5.68      5.68         0.00
PO74641    2002   JM 2ndAPL Hzv/AIDS PREV.AND                   15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.40     0.12      4.52         0.12
                  CONTROL DOC
                                                     Total:   149.10      0.00     0.00     0.00    31.70    45.52      43.68        1.49




                                                                 Jamaica
                                                        STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions of US Dollars

                                                                 Committed                               Disbursed
                                                                IFC                                     IFC
       FY Approval    Company                      Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic.   Loan      Equity     Quasi       Partic.

       2003           JPS Co.                      0.00          0.00     45.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      45.00       0.00
       2005           Jamaica Energy+              20.00         0.00      8.00     50.00     20.00      0.00      8.00       50.00


       2002           MBJA Limited                 19.60         0.00      0.00     24.04     19.60      0.00      0.00       24.04
       2006           MBJA Limited                 21.20         0.00      0.00     20.00      3.89      0.00      0.00        3.25
       2005           NCBJ                         30.00         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00

                                 Total portfolio:   90.80        0.00     53.00     94.04     43.49      0.00      53.00      77.29




                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval    Company                             Loan       Equity     Quasi      Partic.

                       2006           JEP B Loan Swap                  0.00           0.00       0.00       0.00

                                            Total pending commitment:     0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                      77

                                          Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                     Jamaica SecondHIV/AIDS Project
                                                                     Latin     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 America    mlddle-
                                                     Jamaica       8 Carib.   income      Development diamond'
2006
Population, mid-year (mllllons)                                2.7     556       2276
GNipercapita (Atlas method, us$)                             3,570    4,767      2,037                 Lifeepectancy

GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                                 9.5    2,650      4,635                       -
Average annual growth, 2000-06
Population (%)                                                 0.5       13        0.9
Laborforce (966                                                0.1       2.1        1.4                                      Gross
                                                                                                                            primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 2000-06)                                      capna
Poverty (%o fpopulation belownatlonalpovertyllne)               19
Urbanpapulation (%of totalpopulation)                          53        78        47
Lifeeqectancyat birth (pars)                                    71       73         71                       1
Infantmortainy (per 6000llvebirths)                             R        26         31
Childmalnutrition (%ofchlldrenunder5)                            4                  0          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)               93        91         61
Literacy(%ofpopulation age %)                                            90        89
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulatlon)              95        1s        10        -Jamaica
  Male                                                         95       PO         1V
  Female                                                       94        116       114

KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                                   II
                                                1986         I996    2005       2006      Economic ratios.
GDP (US$billions)                                 2.8          6.5       9.7       W.0
Gross capitalformatiorVGDP                       16.9         29.1     31.8
Exportsof goods andseNices/GDP                   48.8         43.6      411                                Trade
Gross damestic savings/GDP                       19.9          V.6      P.0
Gross nationalsavlngs/GDP                        15.3         25.1     21.7
Current account ba!ance/GDP                       0.5         -22      -118      TW.9
Interestpayments/GDP                              8.1          2.7      4.O
Total debt/GDP                                   154.2        62.1     67.0
Totaldebt servlce/euports                        45.6          18.7     16I
Presentvalueof debt/GDP                                                80.3
Presentvalueof debt/eports                                            04A
                                                                                                        indebtedness
                                   1996-96 1996-06           2005    2006 2006-10
(averageannualgrorulh)
GDP                                      4.4      1.2           18      2.5        2.7        -Jamaica
GDP percapha                             3.7      0.6           1.3      2.1        1.5
Ewrtsof goods andsewices


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY


                                                1966         1996    2005       2006
(%of GDP)                                                                                 Growth of capital and GDP (96)           I
Agrlcunure                                                     8.4      5.7        5.9
industry                                                      341      33.1      32.8
 Manufacturing                                                 15.5     U.6        P.7
Services                                            ........  57.5      612       61.3
Householdfinalconsumptioneqenditure              65.8         69.0     72.8                       01   02     03    04   05    OB
Generalgov't finalconsumptionependilure          14.3          u.4      152
lmpOrtSOfgoods andservices                                                                         -GCF            -GDP
                                                 45.9         55.3     60.9


                                            1986-96 1996-06          2005       2006
(averageannualgrowh)
Agricunure                                        4.5         -2.8     -72        15.9
Industry                                          2.5          0.8      2.7       -0.9
 Manufacturing                                    0.7         -0.7      .13       -2.4
Services                                          3.9          16        15        3.3
Household final consumption eqenditure
Generalgov't finalconsumptio neqenditure
Gross capital formation
Imports of goods andservices


Note 2006dataarepreliminaryestimates
This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDBdatabase
'The diamonds show four key indicators inthecountry(inbold) comparedwlth its income-groupaverage Ifdataare missing thediamondwlll
 beincomplete




                                                                    78

                                                                                                                          Jamaica       8




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1986     1996      2005     2006
Domestic prices                                                                       Inflation (%)

(%change)                                                                          1''    T                                         II .
Consumer prices                                5.1     26.4       15.3      8.6
ImplicitGDP deflator                         26.9       18.7       9.3      6.3

Government finance
(%of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                              27.7      25.3       29.0    30.4                 01     02     03      04     05
Currentbudgetbalance                           3.7      0.6       -2.6     -2.4
Overaiisurplus/deficit                         -2.1    -4.5       -3.8     -5.0                 -GDPdeflaor          -CPI


TRADE
                                            1986     1996      2005     2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalevrts (fob)                              660      1,721     1,749    1,984             T
 Alumina                                      205      607        920                 6.000
                                                                          1041
 Baudte                                         90       78         99      173
 Manufactures                                   It?    383         157      165
Total Imports (cif)                          1,042    3,72      4,530    4,888
 Food                                          166      2P
 Fuelandenergy                                 199     452                                                                          I
 Capitalgoods                                 244      548         716     735
Exportprice index(200chWO)                                                                    00   01    02      03  04     05    OB

import price index(2OOchWO)                                                                      .Exports         mlnports
Terms of trade (2OW=WO)




BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                            1986     1996      2005     2006
(US$ mililons)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP (%)

EWrtS Of goods andServices                   1414    3,323      3,993    4,847
Imports of goods andsewices                  1234    3,864      5,975     6,981
Resource balance                                181    -542      -1,981  -2,135

Net income                                    -316     -225      -740     481
Net currenttransfers                           148     624       1,578    1,727

Currentaccount balance                           13    -143      -1,143  -1,089
Financingitems (net)                           -64      41)      1,372    1,319
Changesin net reserves                           51    -271      -229     -230

Memo:
Reserves Includinggold (US$millions)                   875       2,119
Conversionrate (DEC,iocal/US$)                 5.5     37.1       62.3    65.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1986     1996      2005     2006
(US$ millions)                                                                         :omposition of 2005 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding anddisbursed         4247     4,052       6,511
  IBRD                                        572       515        4x)     387
  IDA                                              0      0          0       0

Total debt service                            675      657        969
  IBRD                                          78      PI          58      65
  IDA                                              0      0          0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
 Official grants                                83       39         90
 Official creditors                             -21    -a4        .145
  Private creditors                             -14     24         941
  Foreigndirect investment (net Inflows)         -5     184       682                            L l
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                    0      0          0                       F:3,764

World Bank program
 Commltments                                       0    77           0       6             IBRD                         E - Bilaierd
 Disbursements                                  23       41          a                 \ .
                                                                            18        B - IDA     D- Other rmltilaerd   F - Private
 Principalrepayments                            30       80         39      43   I C - I M F                            G-Short-ten
 Net flows                                      -7      -39       -22      -25
  Interestpayments                              48       41          19     22
 Net transfers                                 -55      -80         -41    -47


Note:This tablevas producedfrom the Development Economics LDE database                                                       9/28/07




                                                              79


Map section


               19N                                 78W                                                                                                                     77W                                                                         19N




                                                                                                      Caribbean                                         Sea                                                          JAMAICA




                                            Montego                                             Falmouth
                                                              Montego Bay                                                                 Runaway Bay
                                    Lucea      Bay
                                                                                                                                                           St. Anns Bay

                                 H A N O V E R        Great  S A I N T
                                         Dolphin Head        Montpelier                                                               D r y                   Ocho Rios      Oracabessa  Port Maria
                                           (545 m)           J A M E S                                                                     H a r b o u r
                                                                                    T R E L AW N Y                                         S A I N T       M t s .                S A I N T
                   Negril                                                                                                                   A N N                                                  Annotto Bay
                                                                                                                                                          Moneague                M A R Y
                          W E S T M O R E L A N D

                                      Savanna                          SAINT                                                                                                                                                      Port Antonio
                                       La Mar                                                            Christiana                                                                                    B
                                      Bluefield                                                                                          Frankfield
                                                                                                                                                                     Linstead                             l u
                                         Bay                     ELIZABETH                                                                                                                                    e P O R T L A N D
                                                                                                                                                                                             SAINT              M
                                                                     Black                                                               Chapelton                     Bog Walk
                                                                                                                                                                         S A I N T                                 o
                                                                                                      Mandeville                                                                          ANDREW                     u   n  ta
                                                                      Black River                                                      CLARENDON                   C AT H E R I N E                Halfway Tree Blue Mt. Peak   i n
               18N                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                          P e d r o                                                                                    Spanish Town                               (2256 m)                                18N
                                                                                                        MANCHESTER                                                                                 KINGSTON
                                                                                       P l a i n s                                                       May Pen                          KINGSTON                       S A I N T
                                                                                                                                                      M                                                              T H O M A S
                                                    78W                                                                                            ohni               Old Harbour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Port Morant


                         JAMAICA                                                                                                                               Lionel  Portland         Bight
                                                                                                                                                               Town



                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                            PARISH CAPITALS

                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                              Caribbean                                        Sea
                            RIVERS

                            MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                           0   5    10   15  20  25 Kilometers

SEPTEMBER                   RAILROADS
                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                       IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0       5      10     15     20 Miles
                            PARISH BOUNDARIES                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                          33423
         2004               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                             77W

