Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9760-CR   Type: (SAR)                      Report No. 9760-CR
ABRAMOVICH/ X31870 / I-7100/ LA2AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 18, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =            Colones (¢)
US$1                   =            ¢ 118
1 million            =            US$8,474.58
(At Appraisal - April 1991)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =  10,000 m2 =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (kM2)   =  0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
1 metric ton (m ton)        =  2,205 pounds



FOR OFFICIM USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AnD ACRONyMS
CORBANA          National Baonan  Corporation (Corporacidn Bonanera Nacional)
AyA              Natfioal Water Coqmpny (Instituto Costarrf1cene de Acueductos y Alcantrtllado)
BCCR             Central Bank of Costs Rice (lanco Central de Costa Rtce)
CAAP             Agricultur  and Agro-Industriel Private Council (ConseJo Agropecuarlo Agroindustrial
Prlvsdo)
CAN              National Agricultural Sector Councit (Conseeo Agropecuerio Naciontl)
CATIE            Central Amricfn Tropical Agricultural Research Canter (Centro AgronSmico Tropical de
Investigae6dn y Enaefarta)
IENADA           National Center for Food Supply and Distribution (Centro MaNconal de Abeetecimfento y
Distribuct6n de Alimntos)
CIA              Association of Agricultural Engineers (Colegil de Irgenferos Agr6nomos)
CIAT             Tropical Agriculture Research Center (Centro de Investigaclen de Agricuttura Tropical)
CIP              Pototo International Center (Centro Internacional de La Papa)
CNP              National Production Co4mcil (Consejo Nacional de Producci6n)
CONAI            National Board for Indigenous Affairs (Consejo Uacfonal de Asuntos Indfgenas)
CONICIT          National Science and Technology Council tCorsejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnolofa)
CONIEA           Council of Agricultural Statistics (Consejo Nacional de Invmstigacidn y Estedistica
Agropecuaria)
CONITTA          National Commlasion for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer (Consejo Nactonal de
Investlgacidn y Transferencis de Tcnologf Agropecuaria)
COTECSA          Technical Comuittee for the Agricultural Sector (ComitE Tdcnico del Sector Agropecuarfo)
DGEC             National Statistfcs and Census Directorate (Dfreccoin Nrcional de Estafstica y Censos)
DOGIE            Directorate of Research and Extension (Direccidn General de Investfgaocin y Extensidn)
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FNSC             Crop Ins  ance and National Contingency Fund (Fondo Nacfonal de Seguro de Cosechas)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICAFE            Costa Rica Coffee Instituts (Instituto del CafE de Costs Rica)
IDA              Agricultural Development Institute Ctnstituto de Desarrolto Agrarlo)
ITCO             Institute for Land Colonization (instituto de Colonizaci6n de Tierra)
JAPOEVA          Port Authority for the Development of the Atlantic Basin (Jinto de Administraci6n Portuaria
y de Des rrollo do la Vertiente AtUdntica)
JLDETAB          Tobacco Board (Juntr del Tabeco)
LAICA            Agricultural and Industrale  Sugarcane League (Liga Agricola e Industrall de La Cafia de
AzOcar)
LCB              Local CoWetitive Eidding
1AG              Ministry of Agreculture and Livestock (Mir sterlo de Agrfcultura y Ganaderfa)
NEP              Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educaci6n)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIDEPLAN         Ministry of National Planning and Political Economy (Ministerto de Planificacf6n Nacional y
PotUtica Econ6mica)
NIRENEM          Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and  ines (Ministerlo de Recurso  Naturales, Energfa r
Ninaf)
NOF              Ministry of Finance (Minfsterio de Hacienda)
NOPT             Ninistry of Pubtic Works and Transports (Ministerlo de Obras PWblicas y Transportes)
MSDOS            Microsoft Disk Operating System
OFIAAROZ         Rice Office (Oficina dol Arroz)
ONS              National Seed Office (Oficina Nacional de Semillas)
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PIMA             Integrated Program of Agricultural Marketing (Programa Integral de Rercadeo Agropecuarlo)
PNS              National Sectorial Programs (Programss Nacionales Sectoriales)
PSC              Project Steering ioonIttee
PTA              Private Technical Assistance
SAL 11           Structural Adjustment Loan 11
SENARA           National Service for Irrigation and Drainage (Servicio Nacional de Riego y Avenamiento)
SEPSA            Executive Secretariat for Agricultural Sector Planning (Secretarfa Ejecutiva de
Planificaci6n del Sector Agropecuario)
SNITTA           National System of Research and Technology Transfer (SisteTa Nacional de Investigaci6n y
Transferencia de Tecnologfa Agropecuaria)
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
TA               Technical Assistance
TAL              Technical Assistance Loan
TVT              Technology Validation Trial
USAID            United States Agency for International Development



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTDURL SCTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVEOPMET PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paae N.
LOAI   AND PROJECT SUMOARY ....................i -.iv
I.  TEE AGRICULTURAL BSCTOR               ................................   1
Macroeconomic Environment for Agriculture ........;..*
Land Resources and Land Use               1...
Agriculture in the Economy    .      ...............                 2
Agricultural Institutions and Services    .     ............         3
Key Constraints to Agricultural Growth .............                 3
Bank Experience in Agricultural Sector Lending .........             9
Bank Lending Strategy in the Sector .........11
11. THE PROJECT  *.....................                                  12
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement.                          12
Project Objectives ........                                         13
Project Description........ .... ..                                 13
Ongoing Sector Reforms ...........    .     ................. .     14
Cost Recovery ................17
Budgetary Impact................. . .                               19
(a) Institutional Development Component                             20
(b) Agricultural Research and Extension Component .25
(c) Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation component             29
Organization and Implementation..............                       33
Costs   ..........................                         ..35
Ill. THE LOAN .....................36
Financing  .......................36
Procurement.......  36
Disbursement and Special Account ................38
Accounting and Audits. . . ...    39
Reporting  ......................                      ....39
Project Benefits .               .                                  39
Environmental Impact. .                                             40
Risks    ...41
IV. SUMNARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..      .............. 41
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that visited
Costa Rica between April 14-May 4, 1991. The mission was comprised of
Messrs. Andres Abramovich (Task Manager), Raymond Noronha, John McIntire,
John McXenna, Felix Jakob, Julio Villanueva, and Mmes. Mirtha Pokorny,
Silvia Castro, and Andrea Jones Silverman (Consultant). It also incorporates
the findings of earlier preparation work by Messrs. Peter Hazell, Ernst Lutz
and Herman Daly, as well as the following FAO/CP team: Messrs. Edgardo Floto
(FAO), John Landers and Sergio Uribe (Consultant).



!.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Table of Contents (Continued)
Psee No.
Annex  ls   Land  Use ..........*,t........ esoo ......                   46
Annex 2:  Agricultural Institutions and Services.... .........            49
Annex 3:  Institutional Development Componentm.........o .  .........     56
Annex 4:  Information System for the Agricultural Sector of
Costa Rica ............ . .. ..         .....  ,. ....         74
Annex 5: Economic Land Use Classification and Soil Erosion
Control Component. ........................ .0*0 ... ..... 0.   84
Annex 6:  Scope of Group Methodology for Extension Assistance......       94
Annex 7:  Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation Component
Land Titling - Cost Summary..................                   97
Annex 8s  Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation Component
Settlement Consolidation Sub-Component
Rural Road Infrastructure      ..      ..................       98
Annex 9: Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation Componont
IDA Settlement Consolidation Component...............          105
Annex 10t Issues Relating to the Liberalization of the Grain
Marketes...   ..  .................................. o.........  114
Annex ll: Progress Performance Indicators        .      ...........      127
Annex 12: Supervision Plan       ............ ................,  140
Annex 13: Technical Assistance and Training Schedule....00*              150
Annex 14: Public Sector Investment Plan..                         .      156
Annex IS: Allocation of Loan Proceeds....            .     .....          163
Annex 16: Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements .......... .           164
Annex 17: Project Cost Summary....                         ........       165
Annex 18: Total Project Costs by Financier and Disbursement
Catgr ........e...............   y0..                          166
Annex 19: Financing Plan by Project Component .... ...........167
Annex 20: Project Components by Year.            ...... .....o...        168
maos
IBRD Map No. 23110:  Costa Rica - Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project - Physical
Characteristics
IBRD Map No. 23111:  Costa Rica - Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project - Land Capability Zones
IBRD Map No. 23216:  Costa Rica - Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project - Instituto de
Desarrollo Agrario (IDA) - Settlement Projects



COSTA RICA
AGRICURAL SCTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOpMENT PROJECT
MOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BoroMr:             Republic of Costa Rica
ctqslina Agencihs: Executive Secretariat for Agricultural Sector Planning
(SEPSA) for the institutional development component, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) for the
agricultural research and extension component, and the
Agricultural Development Institute (IDA) and the Ministry
of Public Works and Transports (MOPT) for the land
titling and settlement consolidation component.
Loan Amount:         US$41 million.
TOMES1              Repayment in seventeen years, including five years of
grace at the standard variable interest rate.
Prolect Obiectivest The project aims to support Costa Rica's sustainable
agricultural growth by improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of public sector institutions and their
expenditures. It would: (a) strengthen sector policy
planning, evaluation, and monitoring capacity; (b) shift
public expenditures away from inefficient food
distribution and grain marketing operations towards
growth enhancing services such as agricultural research
and extension, land titling and settlement consolidation;
(c) support sector reforms directed at improving the
regulatory framework and economic environment for private
sector development; and (c) develop an analytical
framework to guide soil and crop management policies and
practices. By helping in the regularization of land
rights, and improving agricultural productivity of small
farmers, the project would also contribute to alleviating
rural poverty.



- ii -
Prolect DMsArintion:      To achieve its objectives the project would include
the following three components, with training and
technical assistance to be provided to support
implementation of each one:
(a) The Institutional Develonment Component (45% of
total project cost) would: (i) strengthen CAN
policy coordinating functions and SEPSA's technical
ability to coordinate sector planning and budgeting,
as well as monitor agricultural public expenditures;
(ii) help design and implement an integrated
agricultural information system to strengthen
sector-wide planning and projoct monitoring and
evaluation; (iii) delegate spending power and
technical responsibilities to regional offices of
MAG and IDA, improving the balance between staff
located in San Jose and the regions; (iv) improve
land use classification, assess ecosystems
susceptible to soil losses and measure the extent
and cost of the actual and/or potential damage to
the natural resource base; and (v) implement a
program to demarcate the boundaries of National
Parks, Biological Reserves, and other protected
areas;
(b) The Agricultural Research and Extension
Component (21% of total project cost) would:
(i) consolidate and/or foster the emergence of
private technical assistance services to small and
medium-size produrors; (ii) transfer extension
responsibility from IDA and CNP to HAG, making it
the only government institution responsible for
public research and extension, and concentrating its
activities on small producers; and (iii) develop a
group approach to ideotify, test and transfer simple
and cost effective technologies to improve small
farmer productivity;
(c) The Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation
Component (34% of total project cost) would:
(i) provide resources to IDA and MOPT for land
distribution and titling, and for consolidation--by
providing basic rural infrastructure such as roads
and communal facilities--of small holders
settlements to reach acceptable minimum standards
within a period not to exceed 3-5 years from the
date on which consolidation procedures commence; and
(ii) improve IDA's organization, procedures and
regulatory framework for land acquisition,
beneficiary selection, infrastructure development,
and land titling.  The project would also support
ongoing and planned sector reforms in the areas of
public resource allocation, public sector
management, decentralization and private sector
development.



- iii -
so-etltst           The main project benefits would be to: (a) increase
quality and cost-effectiveness of agricultural public
services, especially in the generation and transfer of
modern technology; (b) support changes in the productive
structure of the sector according to its comparative
advantage in international markets; (c) develop the
technical foundation for land use planning and
implementation of an environmentally sound soil
management strategy; (d) improve small farmers well-being
by regularizing land ownership rights and providing
access to minimum necessary rural infrastructure; and
(e) gener te net public budget savings on the order of
US$3.8 million per annum derived from the sector's labor
mobility program, about US$4.5 million during the project
life resulting from IDA's new land acquisition and
titling policy, and a reduction in CNP's budget
allocations equivalent to US$32 million per annum as a
result of the privatization of its food retail operation
and of the long-term leasing and/or liquidation of 50% of
its grain processing and storage facilities.
Risks:              The most important risks lie on the extent of
institutional change envisioned, the multiplicity of
public sector institutions, and the complexity of the
decision making process in Costa Rica which may constrain
timely implementation of policy reforms. These risks
would be mitigated by supporting institutional
development of sector institutions. Particular emphasis
on CAN and SEPSA at the technical level would be placed
in terms of enabling these institutions to carry out
their legal mandate by improving and modernizing their
administrative framework, and technical skills, and
capacity to implement and monitor a rigorous sector
planning and budgeting process. Satisfactory progress in
implementation of agreed major institutional changes and
policy actions was achieved prior to Board presentation,
thus providing an adequate institutional framework for
project start-up. Budgetary risks, which affect all
proposed Bank operations in Costa Rica, and may lead to
slower than planned project implementation, are being
addressed by the Government through public sector savings
and the reallocation of resources within the sector.



- iv -
Estimated Costs
I Local    Foreign       Total
------  US$ Million   -----
Proiect ComDonenta
A. Institutional Development                     19.5        9.5        29.0
B. Agricultural Research and Extension            7.0        6.0        13.0
C. Land Titling and Settlement                    9.2        9.8        19.0
Total Baseline Costs                             35.7       25.3        61.0
Physical Contingencies                          1.1        1.6         2.7
Price Contingencies                             3.9        2.4         6.3
Total Project Costs                              40.7       29.3        70.0
Financina Plan:
IBRD                                           12.0       29.0        41.0
Producers                                       0.8        0.0         0.8
Government of Costa Rica                       27.7        0.5        28.2
Total                                            40.5       29.5        70.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(in USS million)
|  IBRD FY         1992*   1993  1994   1995  1996   1997    1998  1999
Annual                3.3     6.3   9.3      8.0   5.8   4.2       2.8    1.2
Cumulative            3.3     9.6  19.0   27.0  32.8  37.0   39.9  41.0
*  Includes an initial deposit in the SpfIxll Account of US$2.5 million.
Estimated Rate of Return: Not applicable.
NOTE: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



COST. RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DENXJiPNENT PROJCT
STAF! APPRAISAL REPORT
r. THE AgRICULTURAL SECTOR
Macroeconomic Environment for AgricuIture
1.01        Since the economic crisis of the early 1980s, the Couta Rican
economy has recovered strongly while making good progress in the stabilization
process. GDP grew at an average annual rate of 4.4% during the period
1986-90, the public sector deficit was reduced from nearly 14% of GDP in 1982 to
5.2% of GDP in 1990, while inflation was maintained at a rate of approximately
22% p.a. The unemployment ra;e fell sharply from 9% in 1983 to 4.6% by mid-
1990. A strong effort to promote non-traditional exports to markets outside the
Central American Common Market, coupled with a process of trade liberalization
and balanced exchange rates has resulted in non-traditional export from all
sectors of the economy increasing from US$144 million in 1983 to about US$703
million in 1990.
1.02        Although progress has been made in addressing the structural
constraints which affect the overall growth prospect. of the economy, sound
monetary and fiscal policies remain the essential elements for the successful
implementation of Costa Rica's export-oriented growth strategy. To address
underlying constraints on growth, Costa Rica is implementing an adjustment
program--supported by the Bank's Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II;
Loan 3005-CR), approved in December 16, 1988--which includes measures to:
(a) improve incentives to stimulate private savings and investment in export
oriented activities; (b) further increase public savings, reduce the overall
public sector deficit and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the
public sector investment program; (c) improve the public commercial bank's
mobilization and allocation of resources; (d) improve the ability of the
financial sector to mobilize and intermediate financial resources; and
(e) rationalize agricultural pricing, subsidy and grain marketing policies with
a view towards improving productivity of the agricultural sector.
1.03        The current major problem faced by the Government is the
deterioration of the fiscal accounts. The 1990 deficit of the non-financial
public sector has been estimated at 5.2% of GDP (including losses of the Central
Bank equivalent to 2% of GDP), compared to a planned surplus of 0.5% of GDP.
Public savings would have to be achieved largely by cutting expenditures through
tighter budgetary controls and the introduction of comprehensive institutional
reforms. The Government's overriding priority is to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of public services and resource allocation.
Land Resources and Land Use
1.04        Costa Rica's total land area covers 5,180,000 ha, with a variety of
ecosystems with considerable potential for diversified agricultural production.
Approximately 3 million ha, equivalent to 59% of the country's territory, are
suitable for agricultural production. However, only 20% of the total
agricultural land--600,000 ha--is under agricultural crop production. Of the
remaining agricultural land, 54% is either undercultivated or consists of
natural p&otures for livestock production, and 26% under forest cover.



- 2 -
1.05        Of an *stimatod 102,000 agriculture producers in Costa Rica, there
are .pproximately 92,500 small and small/medium farmers. Large farmero (2.8%)
Control 47% of the land. About 33,000 farms (or 32% of the total landholdings)
have lose than 2 ha, accounting for a total area of 21,500 ha or 3.6% of total
agricultural land under cultivation. Small farmers have 30%-40% of their land
under food crops and fallow, mainly beans and maize for on-farm consumption,
about 30%-40% with permanent crops, mostly coffee, and the remaining land under
pastures. A low-input low risk type of technology tends to prevail on food crop
production (mainly maize and beans), with consequent low income and low surplus
for capital formation.
1.06        Forest area, including all protected areas (i.e. National Parks,
Forest Reserves, Biological Reserves), cover approximately 32% of the country's
territory. Deforestation has proceeded at a rapid pace: from 36,000 ha per year
in the 1950s to an average of 50,000 ha a year in the 1980s. As a result of
deforestation, from an area of 2.6 million ha covaring more than half of the
country in 1970, primary forests have been reduceA to approximately 1.6 million
ha. Of this forested area, Forest Reserves cover 337,000 ha, National Parks
457,000 ha, and commercial forest 492,000 ha, with other protected areas and
indigenous reserves accounting for the remaining 314,000 ha. Annex I presents a
summary of current land resource use in Costa Rica.
Agrigulture  in the Econm
1.07        The agricultural sector in Costa Rica has a significant potential
for contributing to the country's export drive and growth. It accounts for 20%
of the country's GDP and about 70% of foreign exchange earnings. Two main
crops, coffee and bananas, dominate agricultural output. Together they
represent 47% of the sector's value added and 68% of total agricul4 tral exports.
In recent years, other traditional agricultural export crops such i sugar,
beef, and cocoa, have lost their dynamism and are now mainly oriented to the
domestic market. This can be partially explained by a drop in international
prices and a shift in domestic producer's price support policies which resulted
in the contraction of some important agricultural activities, including basic
grain production.
1.08        Agricultural development is still hc>w.tly dependent on the
traditional export crops such as coffee cnd banana. However, growth prospects
for these crops are limited. Furthermore, livestock production, which is the
next largest contributor to the agricultural sector's value added has shown a
steady decline in productivity. Therefore, the sector's future growth would
require an effort to improve overall productivity together with an expansion of
a more diversified type of agricultural production.
1.09        Public expenditures in the agricultural sector stagnated in nominal
terms since 1985, declining as a proportion of GDP from 2.9% in 1985 to 1.4% in
1988. At the same time salaries and wages increased from 22% of current
expenditures in 1983 to 47% in 1988. The ability of sector institutions to
carry out their operations has been severely constrained since 1986 due to
drastic cuts in expenditures for goods and services. Past policies and
incentive structure detracted from investment in agriculture and export-related
activities. This coupled with extensive Government intervention in the sector
through import restrictions and price support schemes, especially in basic
grains, kept producer prices above international levels, distorted the
allocation of resources and contributed to large fiscal losses derived from non-
targeted subsidies to production and consumption of staple foods.



- 3 -
1.10        Recent changes in the export incentive structure together with a
balanced exchange rate policy have helped to improve the sector's performance,
mainly due to the impressive growth of non-traditional agricultural products
such as pineapples, flowers, ornamental plants and macadamia nuts. Non-
traditional export crops have been among the main contributors to growth in
1983-90 --at a rate of about 14.7% p.a. compared to an estimated overall growth
in agricultural production of 3.9% p.a.--with annual exports increasing from
about US$30 million to nearly US$155 million during that period.
1.11        Notwithstanding these positive developments, the sector's future
growth will require renewed efforts to improve overall productivity together
with the reallocation of resources towards those products in which Costa Rica
has comparative advantages. To attain the required changes in the sector's
production structure, the Government has decided to take the necessary actions
to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of resource allocation in Costa
Rica's agriculture by restructuring government's participation and expenditures
in the sector, modernizing government operations, and expanding the role of the
private sector.
Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.12        There is a wide range of institutions--public, semi-autonomous, and
private--operating in the agricultural sector of Costa Rica (Annex 2). The
forum for all the public and semi-autonomous institutions to discuss sectoral
policies is the National Agricultural Sector Council (CAN), headed by the
Minister of Agriculture. The CAN is assisted in its policy formulation by the
Agricultural Planning Secretariat (SEPSA). The major sector institutions,
accounting for about 90% of public expenditures in the sector, are as follows:
the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG); Consejo Nacional de la Produccion (CNP), the
Government's marketing authority; and the Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario (IDA),
which is responsible for land distribution. Other specialized public sector
institutions are responsible for: irrigation (SENARA); seed production and
marketing (ONS); marketing of perishable products (PIMA-CENADA); crop insurance
(Seguro de Cosechas y Fondo Nacional de Contingencias); and regional development
(JAPDEVA), through an agricultural development unit within the Atlantic Port
Authority. Commodity associations have been created for the most important
crops, including: coffee (ICAFE); bananas (ASBANA); sugar (LAICA); tobacco
(JUDETAB); and rice (OFIARROZ).
Key Constraints to Aericultural Growth
1.13        Institutional Constraints.  A central barrier to agricultural growth
is the current performance of public sector institutions which has resulted from
a pattern of inefficient public resource allocation to the detriment of growth
enhancing services and investments. The key institutional issues are as
follows: (a) organizational policies, structures and procedures that are
inadequate and inappropriate to achieving organizational and sector development
goals; (b) the absence of an adequate agricultural data base and lack of
capacity to conduct basic analysis in support of policy development and
operational decision-making; (c) the absence of an integrated sector planning,
budgeting and review process; (d) inefficient administrative, logistical and
financial support systems; and (e) the lack of skilled professionals for the
performance of critical sector-specific functions and overstaffing at lower
administrative levels. In addition, the over-centralization of technical and
administrative functions within sector institutions (primarily IDA and HAG) is a
key issue that cross-cuts these areas.



- 4 -
1.14        Oraanizational Policies. Structure and Procedures.  In combination,
current sectoral policies (i.e. land distribution, research and extension,
trade) and the manner in which they are implemented are frequently
counterproductive to explicit economic and social growth objectives. The result
is the misallocation of limited public resources, and, in some cases, the
promotion of objectives (i.e. basic grain market interventions for intended
stabilization purposes) which contradict the overall development goals of the
sector.
1.15        The National Production Council (CNP), with its interventionist
policies regarding domestic and international grain markets and involvement in
retail operations for the distribution of basic staples not only creates
distortions in the marketplace, but also reflects an inefficient use of public
expenditures. While the major constraint is one of policy, any change in policy
would also have to address the existence of organizational units and staff who
are currently dedicated to these counterproductive or redundant functions.
1.16        IDA'S organization is highly centralized, wlth decision-making
concentrated at the headquarters in San Jose. The Administrative, Operations
and Planning Directorates, together include a total of eleven different
functional departments with 27 (subunits. This level of organization is complex,
inefficient and difficult to coordinate. In comparison, field units are
relatively small and provide insufficient support for the establishment and
consolidation of land settlements. Overall, IDA's organizational structure does
not promote the kind of inter-disciplinary teamwork in the field required for
the speedy titling and consolidation of settlements.
1.17        The key policy and structural constraints to effective agriculture
extension and research have been the existence of parallel extension systems and
the targeting of extension to a small number of individual farmers, many of them
medium and large farmers, rather than the large majority of small farmers. In
addition, while MAG has successfully decentralized much of its extension
operations, its research professionals are still predominantly based in the
capital city. This structure inhibits the integration of research and extension
activities and does not provide for sufficient on-farm adaptive research.
1.18        Finally, effective sector planning is being hindered by the lack of
a clear mandate and insufficient authority for the Minister, as well as the
Consejo Agropecuario Nacional (CAN) and the Secretaria Ejecutiva de
Planificaci6n del Sector Agropecuario (SEPSA),V to perform their necessary
functions. Although the Minister of Agriculture has been designated "Ministro
Rector," there is no formal mechanism whereby he can exercise authority to
review the programs and budgets of semi-autonomous sector organizations (IDA and
CNP). To date, SEPSA has performed a coordination and facilitative role in the
sector and neither has the mandate nor specialized units that could undertake
the needed review and analysis of sector plans, budgets, and activities or the
impact of policy and programs on sector performance.
1.19        Sector Analysis.  While agriculture statistics are gathered in a
number of organizations (BCCR, DGEC, BNCR, MAG, SEPSA), there is very little
integration of such information into a coherent data base or basic analysis of
current status and trends in the sector. Although SEPSA has been assigned this
role in principle, the lack of expertise and resources within SEPSA and other
1/    SEPSA is a small organization which provides technical support to the
Minister of Aqriculture--as head of CAN--and CAN in the area of sector



- 5 -
aector organizations, and the absence of a otrong mechanism for inter-
organizational coordination have resulted in only limited development of an
information syotem and inadequate sector analyses.
1.20        Integrated Sector Planning. Budcetinci and Financial Management.
Planning for sector operations and investment occurs within the context of
explicit policy priorities (called the "Marco Orientador") and are integrated by
SEPSA into a single agriculture sector operational plan. That plan is then
approved by CAN. Organizational plans for both ongoing operations and new
investments are merely aggregated, however, rather than reviewed by SEPSA and
CAN for congruence with both sector priorities and organizational
specialization. Finally, there is no substantive sector review of
organizational budgets, nor are budgets submitted concurrently with the
submiesion of organizational plans.
1.21        Administrative, Looistical and Financial Systems.  The
inefficiencies of MAG and related central government systems create long delays
or directly impede such key activities ast (a) personnel actions required in the
field; (b) procurement and supply of equipment and material; (c) access to
timely information and projections regarding organizational activities and
budgetsl and (d) maintenance and repair of vehicles. This problem is due to the
rigidity of administrative rules and procedures, the incongruence of centralized
administrative systems with relatively decentralized technical operations,
reliance on manual processing systems for complex information processing needs,
and the lack of staff incentives and skills among those involved in both
administrative ane logistical support.
1.22        IDA also has significant inefficiencies in its internal support
systems. Its biggest challenge, however, would be to strengthen and adapt its
systems to support increasing decentralization of technical and administrative
functions, as envisaged by the project. It would be especially important to
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of financial systems and expenditures,
and to change the balance of personnel between San Jos6 and the regions.
1.23        Staffing.  The critical functions to be strengthened within the
agricultural public sector organizations are thooe of sector analysis, planning,
budgeting, and administration, as well as the implementation of more appropriate
extension and research methodologies. A number of technical functions within
extension, research, land titling, and infrastructure development are to be
further devolved to the private sector and other specialized public agencies
(e.a. MOPT would supervise private sector implementation of infrastructure
development for IDA settlements). Thus, the priorities for skilled staff are
primarily in the areas of: (a) design and operation of a computerized sector
information system; (b) the development and operation of administrative and
financial systems (e.a. procurement, contracting and supervision, budgeting and
financial management); (c) socio-economic and land use studies; and
(d) strategic and operational planning. In other areas, further study is
required to define whether a given skill gap should be addressed directly by
staffing within the public sector or by contracting to the private sector (e.g.
the maintenance and repair of vehicles at MAG).
1.24        As the sector shifts its emphasis from one set of functions to
another, there would be a need to realign patterns of staffing and the addition
of staff with key skills. Constraining this realignment are civil service
personnel policies which: (a) do not provide mechanisms for the permanent
transfer of personnel from semi-autonomous organizations to line ministries;
(b) frequently do not legally allow the involuntary transfer of personnel from
en, lfnr t4nn tn anvihiar, nr, if   'lowed, make it ext-eme1v difficult to do in



- 6 -
practice; and (c) provide low salaries, relative to the private sector, for
certain key technical positions.
1.25        Overstaffing of personnel in low priority and low skill functions is
also a problem in IDA and MAG, as the resources required for theae personnel,
both in direct salaries and in the time required to supervise them, could better
be allocated to other activities.
1.26        Specific actions are being taken by Government to address staffing
constraints, through a program of retrenchment of redundant personnel,
reassignment of personnel from low priority to high priority functions,
consolidation of research and extension personnel in MAG, development of
incentives to bring about the transfers from San Jove to the regions, and use of
consultant contracts to attract needed expertise in critical areas. The broad
need for civil service reform is simultaneously being addressed by Government,
in a separate initiative.
1.27        Basic Grain Market Distortions.  The major grain markets (i.e.
maize, beans and rice) in Costa Rica are distorted in the pursuit of price
stabilization and national self-sufficiency goals (Annex 10). Consejo Nacional
de Producci6n (CNP) is the main instrument of intervention in the basic grains
market. Its interventions are limited to beans and maize, but it influences the
prices of other grains through the control of imports and exports, and to a
lesser extent, through its food wholesale and retail operations. CNP's food
retail operation is relatively ineffective, and, nationwide it has only 156
stores competing with some 20,000 private retail outlets.
1.28        An analysis of past data (see Annex 10) shows that inter-year
stabilization of maize, beans and rice prices has negligible effects on the
stability of the cost of the diet for most households in Costa Rica. Similarly,
because of crop diversification, few farmers benefit from stabilization of
maize, beans and rice prices; of those who benefit, most tend to operate large
farms. Moreover, CNP has been less effective in stabilizing farm gate prices
than retail prices.
1.29        CNP's market interventions lead to significant distortions between
domestic and border prices. Domestic bean prices average 30% to 40% below
border prices, while rice and maize are kept about 20% above border prices.
These distortions lead to significant income transfer effects. Consumers lose
about US$1.20 per capita per year with direct gains to producers. However,
nearly all the gains accrue to large rice farmers, whereas the incomes of small
bean farmers are lower as a result of the price interventions.
1.30        These price distortions are also costly to the economy (about
US$10.5 million per year) because they lead to less than optimal patterns of
production and consumption. Additionally, many of CNP's operational costs are
an unnecessary burden on the economy, and the total national cost of the
interventions is estimated at US$68 million per year (Annex 10).
1.31        Many of CNP's operations discourage private sector development.
Indirect subsidies, and a policy of uniform regional pricing limit the ability
of the private sector to compete. Similarly, government interventions which act
to remove seasonal price differentials, make private storage unprofitable, and
restrict the trading activities of private firms during parts of the year by
arbitrarily setting ccmmodity prices and not allowing prices to adjust according
to stocks and distance from the consumption centers. These disincentives to the
private sector reinforce the misguided impression that CNP fills a marketing



- 7 -
void because there would be inadequate competition if they withdrew from food
retail and grain wholesale operations.
1.32        CNP's policy of maintaining domestic prices of yellow maize above
relevant border prices, has also increased the cost of the major feedgrain for
dairy, poultry and pork production. The net effect is higher domestic prices
for many livestock products, with additional losses to consumers, and a
reduction on Costa Rica's ability to compete in the beef and poultry export
markets. Actions under implementation to restructure CNP are described in
paras. 2.14-2.16.
1.33        Inadequate Technology Generation and Transfer.  Extension services
provided by MAG, IDA, and CNP are a prime example of duplication of activities
in the agricultural public sector. The Ministry's performance has been
characterized by poor implementation capacity and limited effectiveness in
relation to present needs and sector growth prospects. Extension methods are
based principally on individual farm visits, giving a relatively high cost of
coverage (US$125-US$170/farmer/year) and low proportion of small farmers
attended (less than 17%). The lack of field-tested specific small farmer
technologies and few on-farm demonstrations, are a clear indication of the
extent to which technical assistance services have deteriorated in recent years.
1.34        There is currently an extremely low level of on-farm research
carried out by MAG on small farmer enterprises. This has meant that extension
agents also have few farm-tested recommendations adapted to small farmers,
especially in basic grain production, the poorest sub-sector. Researchers are
not directly involved in diagnosing farmers' needs and production problems. In
MAG, the link between research and extension has proved difficult. Contacts
between research and extension staff take place only on an ad hoc basis. The
divorce between research and the farmer has only been effectively conquered in
Costa Rica by parastatal institutions such as the banana association (ASBANA),
and the coffee association (ICAFE), privately run producers' associations such
as the sugar association (LAICA), and by private enterprises, whose personnel
carry out both research and technical assistance.
1.35        A change in the production system--particularly of small farmers--
would require the introduction of technologies with a high cost-benefit ratio
and an understanding of the farm as a production system that is currently not
available. Despite the large number of institutions and staff engaged in
agricultural extension, their impact both in terms of coverage and cost-
effectiveness is poor. The present system of individual farm visits necessarily
leads to a reduced coverage, while technological packages being transferred to
small producers do not take into account the potential and limitations of their
farming systems nor the risk aversion that naturally prevail among these
producers. There is, nevertheless, ample room for improvement and
rationalization by supporting private technical assistance and improving
coverage and cost effectiveness of the technical assistance services,
particularly for extension services rendered by public sector institutions. The
main entities involved in technical assistance are described in Annex 2.
1.36        The transition of small farmers from public to private technical
assistance is heavily constrained by regulations imposed by the association of
agricultural engineers (CIA), and endorsed by the Government through an
executive decree. The decree establishes a three-year experience pre-requisite
for an agronomist to practice private technical assistance. The CIA establishes
the fees to be charged to farmers, and also maintains a register which limits an



individual's professional activities to two crops and to a maximum area per
year. In addition, Government regulations link credit to technical aosistance
in a compulsory manner. This restriction limits competition and tend to
increase the cost of technical assistance to small farmers.
1.37        Poir Pngforsace ig Me"ting IDA's Land Titlina. Distribution and
Consolidation Obioctives. The Institute for Agricultural Development (IDA), the
successor to the Institute for Land Colonization (ITCO), was created to reduce
inequalities in landholding and to provide access to land through, among other
matters, the settlement of landless people and the development of their ability
to become productive farmers.  IDA has failed, however, to meet its goals to a
large extent. Over the last 19 years, approximately 558 settlements have been
under the control of IDA. Of these, only 12% have been completely titled,
covering an estimated 240,000 ha (or 35.5%) out of 680,000 ha. An estimated
30,314 individual titles have still to be issued for about 730,500 ha.
1.38        Some of the major factors affecting IDA's ability to attain its
goals and to have a significant impact on agricultural growth and development,
include: (a) overcentralized management; (b) despite staff inadequacies and
operating budgetary constraints, IDA has continued to acquire lands for
settlements far in excess of its capacity to consolidate those settlements;
(c) the bases for land acquisition are uncertain and, often, inferior lands have
been acquired at an overvalue; (d) there is an absence of uniform standards of
the minimum infrastructure and services needed to permit settlers to carry out
sustainable agricultural production; (e) the rules relating to beneficiary
selection are lengthy and cumbersome, and penalize female-headed households;
(f) in some cases, settlers have obtained land without reference to its actual
potential use or the ability to sustain agricultural production and development;
and (g) the lack of land use planning and adequate technical assistance and
supervision, has resulted to some extent in inappropriate land clearing and soil
erosion.
1.39        The net effect of IDA's inability to i%plement its mandate is a
reduction of agricultural productivity and an increase in the potential for
unsustainable development and possible environmental degradation. Further, the
failure to recover costs together with a pattern of continued acquisition of
land, has compounded IDA's incapacity to fully implement its mandate of
settlement consolidation. The insecurity regarding ownership rights, due to the
lack of land titles, is acting as a disincentive to long term investment and
sustainable agricultural growth.
1.40        Regarding women land ownership rights, preliminary data indicates
that over the past three years, 1072 women (21% of beneficiaries) have been
selected as IDA beneficiaries. However, these have been largely subjective
decisions and neither reflect an understanding for the role of women in
agriculture, nor the likely reality that there is a significant number of
female-headed households. Further, the present system applied to assess
settlement-worthiness, assigns negative points to households headed by women or
with female children, while adding points for the presence of male labor.
1.41        Inadeauate Natural Resource Manaoement.  High rates of deforestation
and soil erosion problems have been reported in Costa Rica by various public
agencies and private organizations. Opinions on the magnitude of these pressing
environmental problems vary from one interest group to another. Debates on
environmental issues related to agricultural production, are exacerbated by the
lack of quantifiable data at the national level supported by field observations
to properly assess the environmental impact of the current land use pattern.



The wide spectrum of different and often disperse efforts to effectively address
environmental issues, directly affect potential agricultural growth on
sustainable bases, risking misallocation of natural, human and financial
resources.
1.42        The lack of a clear sector policy framework has resulted in
agricultural activities, settlement programs and infrastructure being poorly
planned, poorly sited and subsequently often leading to environmental
degradation or failure. The lack of a comprehensive, cohesive soil use planning
instrument has led to declining agricultural productivity, costly deforestation,
and les than optimum utilization of the country's agricultural and natural
resource base.
1.43        While Costa Rica has made very significant efforts in establishing
a system to protect its diverse natural resources (approximately 22% of the
country is protected through a system of national parks and forests, and
biological reserves), sufficient funds often have not been available to
demarcate or protect the boundaries of these areas to discourage invasions or
non-conforming uses. Since many areas are not surveyed and properly registered,
some of IDA's settlement projects are at the present occupying about 55,000 ha
of protected areas.
1.44        Actions Proposed.  The project addresses the above-referred
constraints by focusing on institutional reform, streamlining administration of
sector institutions, enhancing sector planning capacity, and decentralizing
operations. Emphasis is also given to promoting a change in the structure of
the sector, improving agricultural services by expanding the role of the private
sector in agricultural extension and grain marketing. Land ownership rights
will be regularized and small farmer settlements consolidated within a well
defined time-frame. The project will also promote sustainable agricultural
development, help protect environmentally sensitive areas, and lay the basis for
appropriate land use and soil conservation practices.
Bank Exoerience in Aaricultural Sector Lendin@
1.45        Costa Rica, to date, has received 33 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totalling US$680.3 million net of cancellations. As part of the Bank's
assistance effort, a first structural adjustment loan (SAL I) for US$80 million
and a parallel US$5 million Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) were approved in
April 1985, and a SAL II loan for US$100 in December 1988. The US$40 million
first tranche of SAL I was disbursed in September 1985. Performance was slower
than expected, and resulted in delays in second tranche release until June 1986.
SAL II was declared effective in November 1989. As stated in para. 1.02, under
the program supported by SAL II, the Government introduced: (a) further reforms
on the trade regime and export incentives to promote increased exports to third
markets; (b) measures to further increase public savings, reduce the overall
public sector deficit and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the
public sector investment program; (c) improvements in its financial system; and
(d) rationalization of pricing, subsidy, and marketing policies in the
agricultural sector by reducing CNP's monopoly on imports and marketing of beans
and maize, unifying domestic consumer and producer prices, and reducing the
divergence between domestic producer support prices and international prices of
basic grains.
1.46        SAL II became effective in November 1989 and the first tranche
(US$40 million) was disbursed shortly thereafter. By early 1990 the Government
had complied with most of the conditionalities for second tranche release, but



- 10 -
disbursements. After a thorough supervision of all second tranche
conditionalities which confirmed the Government's commitment to a new
stabilization program, supported by the IMF, the Bank waived a condition on
public sector savings for 1991, under the understanding that the original public
savings target would be met by 1992. The second tranche of SAL II (US$35
million) was released in July 1991. The third tranche (US$25 million) is
targeted for release during the first quarter of 1992, upon verification that
third tranche conditions--which include agricultural trade liberalization
measures--have been satisfactorily implemented.
1.47        Of the total Bank lending to Costa Rica, four loans were made for
agriculture, amounting to US$56 million.  Two loans (Loan 538-CR and Loan 827-
CR) were in 1968 and 1972, respectively, for directed agricultural credit, one
(Loan 1410-CR) in 1977 was for a nationwide program including credit, rural
roads, seed production and strengthening of the extension service, and the
fourth, the Atlantico Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2764-CR), approved
in 1986 and still under implementation, is aimed at expanding production of
agricultural exports through credit, rural roads construction and
rehabilitation, and land titling. After a slow start-up, this project was
amended in December 1988 to permit rapid assistance in areas damaged by
Hurricane Joan, and in December of 1989, to expand the project area with the
primary objective of increasing production of non-traditional export crops.
Subsequently, after the earthquake that hit the Atlantic Region of Costa Rica on
April 22, 1991, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement to support rural roads
infrastructure reconstruction efforts within the project area.
1.48        Key lessons learned from the Agricultural Credit and Development
Project (Ln. 1410-CR), and the ongoing Atlantic Agricultural Development Project
(Ln. 2764-CR) indicate that:
a.    In projects which include several components and implementing
agencies, the responsibility of these agencies must be clearly
defined, and special care be taken in the selection and appointment
of the managerial staff. In the proposed project, the Bank would
play an active role in the staff selection and monitoring of the
coordinating unit. Also based on past experience, funds have been
included in the project for project administration including
monitoring and evaluation. Under the proposed implementation
arrangement, while the PCU would provide a link between executing
agencies and the Bank with respect to technical and administrative
aspects of project implementation, the line Ministries would be
responsible for the execution of the specific project components.
b.    Project coordination units outside the line Ministry--as in the came
of the Atlantic Agricultural Development Project were the
Coordinating Unit is within MIDEPLAN--have been and are being
perceived by the implementing agencies as another bureaucratic layer
that does not effectively contribute to their efforts. In order to
provide an adequate implementation framework, the proposed project
would establish the PCU within SEPSA which represents the technical
secretariat of CAN.
c.    A comprehensive approach to technology transfer (extension,
research, and training) could prove to be more effective than a
piecemeal strategy of research and extension development applied
under the Agricultural Credit and Development Project (Ln. 1410-CR).
The project would replace the current individual farm visit crop-
4 -t 4      lk_-4  1h     4      - .n         oh  tO   r- F  e  I-    nre-ir  -



- 11 -
of--mainly--small farmers. The new strategy would support the
introduction of technologies with a high cost-benefit ratio and an
understanding of the farm as a production syatem.
1.49        Bank lending experience in Costa Rica was incorporated to the
project design by focusing on improving coordination, understanding of project
objectives, and overlapping of implementation responsibilities between executing
agencies. Poor inter-relations between funding and executing agencies, and lack
of adequate monitoring and evaluation are being addressed by the project through
public sector reform measures, providing back-stopping for the execution of the
overall program, and by training staff in critical technical arease.
1.50        The FAO/CP Agricultural Sector Review, and complementary analysis of
basic grain markets in Costa Rica (Annex 10), carried out during preparation,
provided relevant additional information. Experience confirms that at this
juncture, sector projects should focus on institutional reform and highly
selective public investment in support of the Government's export-oriented
adjustment program.
Bank Lending Strateav in the Sector
1.51        Bank lending to Costa Rica initially concentrated on developing
basic infrastructure (mainly power, communications and highways) with limited
assistance to productive activities in agriculture and industry. In response to
the growing economic crisis in the early 1980s, the Bank's lending program gave
priority to structural adjustment, improving expert performance, relieving the
country's pressing balance of payments problems, and strengthening credit
worthiness.
1.52        Deteriorating current account deficits and the inability to bring
about an increase in public sector saving, represent major structural problems
in the Costa Rican economy. Broad improvements in fiscal management, focusing
on expenditure control, are a cornerstone of our country dialogue and may
constitute the basis of future adjustment lending in Costa Rica.
1.53         In agriculture, the process of price liberalization supported by
SAL I and SAL II will continue under the proposed project, to ensure that
domestic prices approach international prices and reflect production costs,
eliminating current income transfers affecting small farmers and consumers.
Government interventions in pricing, marketing and storage of food products and
basic grains would be reduced and/or eliminated, allowing for active private
sector participation.
1.54        Institutional reform is the key for improving efficiency in
developing and implementing a sound sectoral policy. Public agencies with
overlapping functions and objectives (e.g., in agricultural research and
extension) will be consolidated to increase the operational efficiency of the
sector, reducing current expenditures while protecting the investment program.
Further sector reforms will include streamlining administration, enhancing
sectoral planning capacity, and decentralizing certain operations.
1.55        Improvements in resource management policy are necessary to ensure
sustainable agricultural growth. Future lending should address issues related
to the development of basic analytical tools to prevent inadequate allocation of
limited land resources, including identification of current and potential uses
of land, and addressing land tenure, water rights, forestry, and environmental
degradation issues.



- 12 -
IX.  ThE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.01        Origin.  The proposed project has its origin in the General
Identification Report and the Agricultural Sector Review prepared by the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in August 1988 and May 1989 respectively.
The sector review highlighted major constraints and priorities for investment in
the agricultural sector. The scope of the project was defined during an
identification mission in July/Aiagust 1989, which discussed with sector
authorities the findings and recommendations identified in the sector review,
together with a Government proposal to: (a) strengthen sector policy planning;
(b) decentralize budgetary, technical and administrative functions of key sector
institutionsl and (c) reduce imbalances in public sector expenditures. The
Government then organized inter-institutional working groups, under the overall
coordination of SEPSA, to prepare a sector-wide investment and institutional
reform project proposal for possible Bank financing. Following the preparation
mission, in November/December 1989, a follow-up mission in July 1990 discussed
with the present administration the policy framework presented to the Bank by
the prior Administration. The sector authorities agreed with the project
objectives and expressed their willingness to undertake major agricultural
public sector reforms. During a pre-appraisal mission in November 1990, the
Government's proposal to modernize organizational policies and structure, and
strengthen the sector's public investment program was reviewed. The project was
appraised in April 1991. Negotiations took place in Washington from October 7
to 11, 1991, with a Costa Rican delegation headed by the Vice-Minister of
Agriculture. Negotiations were completed on November 22, 1991, after the
Government reached a final decision, satisfactory to the Bank, on the timing for
the elimination of all quota restrictions for imports and exports of basic
grains and beans, and the establishment of a tariff system and elimination of
price controls over these products.
2.02.       Rationale.  Being an integral part of the strategy defined in paras.
1.51-1.56 above, the proposed project would build upon the Government's
structural adjustment program supported by SAL II. It would also be consistent
with findings of the above-mentioned Agricultural Sector Review and the Bank's
report "Costa Rica: Public Sector Expenditure Review" (Report No. 7877-CR of
September 21, 1989). Both reports' main recommendation for the agricultural
sector focuses on institutional reform and investment. In particular, they
recommend action to: (a) streamline administration of sector institutions;
(b) enhance sector planning capacity; (c) decentralize operations; (d) eliminate
duplication of extension services while improving current technology transfer
mechanisms; (e) privatize CNP's food retail operation and withdraw gradually
from physical intervention in grain markets; and (f) clarify IDA's long term
objectives of land titling and settlement consolidation to acceptable minimum
standards. This would allow IDA to wean long established settlers so that it
can concentrate its resources on new developments in a more cost-effective way.
2.03.       During preparation of the project, each sector agency defined its
objectives, priorities, activities, specific tasks, and its role and ability to
develop and implemernt an overall sector strategy. This exercise brought about
an awareness of institutional capacity and individual skill gaps which have been
identified as critical constraints to the sector's development.
2.04.       Emphasis has been given to the need for agricultural reconversion,
changing the productive structure of the sector according to its comparative
Advantaqe in international markets. Towards this goal, directing public



- 13 -
investment to growth enhancing services such as land titling and settlement
consolidation and research and extension, as well as increasing efficiency in
public sector operations, is of utmost importance. The latter would be
addressed by improving planning, control and monitoring techniques and by
solving personnel issues in the context of the Government's labor mobility
program (para. 2.17). Incremental staffing needs in high priority areas, would
be offset by reduction in the major sector institutions (MAG, CNP, and IDA)
overall personnel quota, resulting from their reorganization. As part of the
ongoing public sector reform initiative, MAG, CNP and IDA are among the first
institutions to present a restructuring proposal to the central Government
following the guidelines agreed upon during preparation of the proposed project.
2.05.       As identified in the Agricultural Sector Review, and with a view
towards expanding the role of the private sector, and further liberalizing grain
markets, the project would promote private technical assistance and the
divestiture of CNP's food retail operation and grain processing facilities
(para. 2.14-2.16). In line with the proposed measures, the project would also
support tight budgetary controls and the establishment of a consistent cost
recovery policy for all sector institutions, so that these can contribute to the
programmed level of sector investments (paras. 2.21-2.32). While an improvement
in the provision of public services is envisioned, the cost of providing these
services is expected to decline as the project is implemented.
2.06.       Consistent with the Bank's long-term agricultural lending strategy,
the project would support a land use classification and soil erosion control
program. This noteworthy effort would establish an inter-institutional
coordinating committee to develop a technically sound methodology and to create
a consensus across both government and the private sector towards improved land
use in Costa Rica. This consensus building strategy reflects the importance now
being given by the Government to promoting sustainable agricultural development
and to protecting environmentally sensitive areas by laying the basis for
appropriate land use and soil conservation practices.
Praioct Obiectives
2.07.       The proposed project would help improve the scope, and quality of
agricultural services, and shift the sector's public investment program towards
sustainable agricultural growth. By supporting regularization of land ownership
rights, and improving agricultural productivity and income of small farmers it
would also help alleviate rural poverty. Towards these goals, the proposed
project would: (a) strengthen sector policy planning, evaluation, and monitoring
capacity of SEPSA; (b) shift public expenditures away from inefficient food
distribution operations and marketing of basic grains towards growth enhancing
services, such as agricultural research and extension and land titling, and
public investment for land settlement consolidation (defined as the provision of
basic infrastructure at specified minimum standards); and (c) develop an
analytical framework, based on a land use classification and soil erosion
control program, to guide decision-making for the design of projects,
regulations and incentives that would encourage appropriate land use with
emphasis on soil conservation.
Proiect Description
2.08.       The project would include the following three components with
training and technical assistance to be provided to support implementation of
each one: (a) The Institutional Develo2ment component (US$29.0 million total
baseline cost) would:  (i) strengthen CAN policy coordinating fun.tions and



- 14 -
SEPSA's technical ability to coordinate sector planning and budgeting, as well
as monitor agricultural public expenditures; (ii) design and implement an
integrated agricultural information system to strengthen sector-wide planning
and project monitoring and evaluation; (iii) improve the organization, and
decentralize MAG and IDA, shifting the balance between staff located in San Jose
and the regions; (iv) improve land use classification, assess ecosyatemo
susceptible to soil losses and measure the extent and cost of the actual and/or
potential damage to the natural resource base; and (v) implement a program to
demarcate the boundaries of National Parks, Biological Reserves, and other
protected areas; (b) The Agricultural Research and Extension component (US$13.0
million total baseline cost) would: (i) consolidate and/or foster the ezmergence
of private technical assistance services to small and medium-size prodl.cers; and
(ii) develop and implement a group approach to identify, test and transfer
simple and cost effective technologies to improve small farmer productivity; and
(c) The Land Titlina and Settlement Consolidation comDonent (US$19.0 million
total baseline cost) would provide resources to: (i) IDA for land distribution
and titling; and (ii) MOPT for consolidation of small holders settlements--by
providing basic rural infrastructure such as roads and communal facilities--to
reach acceptable minimum standards within a period not to exceed 3-5 years from
the date on which consolidation procedures commence. The project components and
objectives are summarized in Table 2.1. The project would also support ongoing
and planned sector reforms in the areas of public resource allocation, public
sector management, decentralization and private sector development.
Ongoing Sector Reforms
2.09.       Preparation activities have had a significant impact on the way in
which agricultural public agricultural sector agencies started to address
institutional reforms and the sector public expenditure program.  The changes in
structure and organization of agricultural sector agencies have been approached
as a means to increase their capacity, or the ability to anticipate and
influence change, make informed decisions, attract resources, and manage these
resources to achieve a new set of objectives. In this context the Government
has taken the following actions:
2.10.       Institutional Development Program.  The absence of effective
policies and misallocation of resources to redundant and/or inappropriate
functions are major constraints to sector growth. Therefore, the strengthening
of the sector's capacity to conduct in-depth sector analysis, and to use that
analysis in policy making and planning activities, is a key objective of the
project. This involved strengthening the capacity of SEPSA as an organization,
and the capacity of sector systems for information, planning and financial
management.
2.11.       In support of the above objectives, specific decisions and actions
by Government as well as organizational activities to be supported by project
financed technical assistance, training and equipment, are already underway.
Prior to Board oresentation the Government of Costa Rica has: (a) taken
executive action establishing the authority and responsibilities of the Minister
of Agriculture, CAN and SEPSA over the' planning and budgeting review process of
all sector organizations; and (b) formally re-organized SEPSA and provided for
additional qualified staff (transferred from other government agencies),
including its new structure to strengthen its ability to implement assigned
functions (see Annex 3 for a description of re-organized SEPSA functions,
structure and staffing requirements). In addition, the Government has also:
(a) established information units in MAG, CNP and IDA responsible for managing
e-h n-n-ni--Ail v^Fn' Io in | inrn-wtinen tha - ev4etltis a infovrt tion networ-l; arnd



Tabte 2.1: SUiMARY OF PROJECT COGPOMETS
Proposed
Ban                                                                                                                            DOOMt  of
Cotponen         Firnri       Agency                Activity                                              ObJective                              Ingtf tution l
cing                                                                                                                           Reform
MUS
million)
Develop an agricultural information network,   Improve sector analysis and strengthen the               Substantial
capacity for analysis of impact of ecornmic    decisior-making process, achieve greater linkage
and agricultural policies on the sector and    of organizational plans with sector policy
an Integrated sector planring, budgeting and   directives, consistency of institutional budgets
financial management system                      and expenditures with plans increase
decentralization of budgetary and expenditture
Institutional                                                                              controls, and management of budget and
SEPSA                                                      expenditures by program                                                  l
14.9                  Land use classification and soil erosion         Develop an atalytical tool to improve sustainable    Moderate
control program                                  tand resour:e use
Development                               Demarcation of reserve areas                      Discourage inappropriate land resource use by         Minor
providing a mesns t. assist enforcement of
boundaries of national parks and reserve areas
Restructure organizations: delegating key        Improve the pattern of huwan nd .financial            substantial
NAG       technicat and administrative functions to         resource allocation and quality and cost
IDA       regional offices, privatizing specific           effectiveness of agricultural services, and pubtlic
SEPSA      functions, retrenching redundant staff, and    investment
l_______________                           strengthening critical functions
Develop a new research and extension             Increase coverage of services, improving diffusion   Substantial
strategy, shifting from individual farm          of technology to support production reconversion
Agricultural                              visits to a group approach and stressing
adaptive research and validation of
Research            10.1        NAG        technologies rather than basic research
and Extension                             Private technical assistance voucher "pilot"   Enable small qualified farmers to wnve towards           New
program                                          contracting private technical assistance as a
means to optimize public sector resource
al location
Provide titling for approximately 23,500         By regulerizing small farmer land ownership           Substantial
Land Titling                              parcels of land                                  rights, provide the foundation for long term
Investment and sustainable agricultural growth
15.0       IDA        Construction of comumal facilities (i.e.         support the consolidation of settlements by            Moderate
wnd                                       for health, educatIon, water supply, and         providirg basic infrastructure necessary for
comminity meetings) in eligible settlements    economic and social growth
Consolidation                             Construction and rehabilitation of rural         Provide adequate rural transport infrastructure        Minor
I             COPT       roads on eligible settlements                    required for the consolidation process



- 16 -
(b) set up an Interinstitutional Commission on Agriculture Information and
Statistics to be headed by SEPSA to coordinate the computerized Agricultural
Information Network (paras. 2.36 (d) and 4.01 (b)).
2.12.       pecentralimati.  Restructuring of sector institutions hae already
started according to their functions and objectives, elimina&ing organizational
duplication. Administrative action (agreements between government agencies) has
been taken to transfer all extension personnel from CNP and IDA to MAG (para.
2.59). Furthermore, during negotiations MAG and IDA gave assurances and
formally committed themselves in their Decentralization Plan and Statement of
Policy respectively, to a more decentralized form of institutional action, in
which regional offices are given significant operational responsibilities (para.
4.01 (c)).
2.13.       One of the Government's main objectives is to consolidate sectoral
institutions and streamline their operations to reduce current expenditures
while protecting the investment program. In the case of MAG, this effort has
resulted in approximately 50% of research and 80% of extension personnel already
assigned outside the capital, San Jose, to the regions.
2.14.       CNP Divestiture and Grain Markets Liberalization.  The project aims
at shifting public expenditures away from inefficient food distribution
operations, and removing price distortions derived from the Government's
intervention on price fixing, processing, marketing and trade of basic grains
and beans. The estimated cost of CNP's divestiture would be approximately
US$600,000, exclusive of redundancy payments to the council's employees included
in the sector's labor mobility program.
2.15        Within the framework of the sector reform program, an executive
decree has been issued establishing that: (a) no later than June 30, 1992, the
current quota system for imports and exports of basic grains and beans will be
eliminated and replaced by import tariffs analogous to those in the inc'ustrial
sector (not to exceed a maximum of 20%), meaning no control on imports, and full
private sector access to imports of basic grains; and (b) price controls on
basic graine and beans will be eliminated (para. 4.01 (d)). In addition
(through resolution of its Board of Directors) CNP has: (a) fully privatized its
153 food retail stores; (b) permanently closed four of its seven grain storage
and processing facilities which are in the process of being liquidated or
permanently transferred to the private sector; (c) started to charge wholesale
prices of basic grains and beans that reflect the full cost of storage;
(d) introduced regional price differentials in its farm gate and wholesale
prices that reflect true transportation costs; and (e) annual purchases of maize
and beans will be reduced to the minimum necessary for emergency reserve
purposes--not to exceed about 25% of annual consumption (para. 4.01 (d).
2.16        To ensure continuity of ongoing reforms, a study about the future
role of CNP, started prior to Board presentation and to be completed within nine
months of the date of Loan Effectiveness (para. 4.01 (d)), will produce an
action plan on the transformation of that parastatal which will be discussed and
agreed between the Government and the Bank when completed--no later than nine
months after Loan Effectiveness.  Progress on the agreed actions proposed under
that plan will be reviewed during the mid-term review of the project
(para. 2.95).
2.17        Labor Mobility Proaram.  The Government is currently undertaking a
public sector retrenchment program, with the target of reducing employment by



- 17 -
7,500 before the first quarter of 1992. Within the agricultural sector
approximately 1,000 employees from MAG, CNP, and IDA have been retrenched at a
one-time cost to the Government of about US$5.8 million equivalent. The
reductions made by the agricultural sector organization have been: (a) 780
employees of CNP's food retail operation; (b) 130 employees in MAG; and
(c) 90 employees in IDA. In an aggregate, this accounts to a reduction of about
18% of the major agricultural sector institutions labor force.
2.18        The cost of the sector's labor mobility program, including severance
payment for approximately 1000 sector employees, CNP divestiture, and the
implementation of policy actions to further liberalize basic grain markets, is
being fully financed by the Government with USAID assistance.
2.19        Land Settlements.  To improve IDA's ability to implement its mandate
of land titling and settlement consolidation, IDA'L pattern of continual
acquisition of new land has been reviewed by the Government. Assurances have
been obtained (and formally established in IDA's Policy Statement) that IDA will
limit the annual acquisition of new land to the equivalent of 50% of 1990
expenditures (US$3.0 million equivalent) assigned to that purpose and to
maintain this policy until all lands, both with on-going settlements (included
in the project) and vacant lands owned by IDA and earmarked for settlement are
settled and titled. Acquisition of new lands will be limited only to land which
meets socio-economic criteria, set forth in IDA's Statement of Policy, and
agreed Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines (para. 4.01 (e)).
2.20        With the objective of improving its performance in meeting land
titling and settlement consolidation objectives, IDA's Board of Directors has
taken executive action reflected in IDA's Statement of Policies: (a) adopting
guidelines--satisfactory to the Bank-- setting out acceptable minimum basic
infrastructure needs (roads, communal centers, and drinking water facilities)
for IDA settlements; (b) £tating that IDA would limit its direct involvement
with land settlements to no more than three to five years from the commencement
date of the consolidation. process; (c) adopting a policy that no settlements
will be created and no inf;astructure constructed by IDA within less than 10 km
from a declared national p:t'<k or reserve areas; (d) establishing management
guidelines for land contiguous to national parks and biological reserves which
presently are within the ongcing and future programs of IDA; and (e) reframing
IDA's rules for beneficiary stlection so that women will have an equal chance of
being selected as beneficiar.t3 as men.  To help improving land and human
resource allocation, IDA has clearly specified and gazetted the terms and
circumstances under which titles are transferable within 15 years from the date
of acquisition (para. 4.01 (e)).
Cost Recovery
CNP
2.21        Under the project, price differentials for CNP's purchases of basic
grains, beans and service charges will be introduced to fully reflect
interregional trade and estimated real transport and processing costs.
Similarly, interseasonal prices will also reflect estimated real storage and
transaction costs.
2.22        As a result of CNP interventions, consumers and producers in Costa
Rica bonefit (or lose) from a number of income trar 'ers within the current
foodgrain marketing system. The most important tra sfers arise from the
Ai F'wF4- ff Av rnasa nrioes, hut t-Ansfevs across reqions are also imoortant.



- 18 -
Consv'ers and producers in more remote areas gain from subsidized transport
cop'.s. Households and other users of grains, like feed manufacturers, purchase
grain later in the agricultural year benefit from subsidized storage costs,
possibly at the expense of those who buy soon after harvest. In order to reduce
interregional price variations, CNP has traditionally bought grain from farmers
and sold them to consumers at prices that do not fully reflect transport,
processing, and storage costs.
2.23        CNP pricing policies also discourage private sector participation in
grain markets. Smoothing of seasonal price variations remove incentives for
private storage and processing. Similarly, setting regional prices that do not
adequately reflect full transport costs make it difficult for private traders to
compete in the distant regions of the country. These policies also contribute
to inefficient agricultural production patterns, with excess production of
grains in high-transport-cost regions and insufficient production in low-
transport-cost regions.
2.24        Under the project the grain marketing operation of CNP--reduced by
over 50%--will operate on a full cost recovery basis (para. 4.01 (d)). While
the grain marketing program has been estimated to represent approximately 29% of
CNP's annual budget, storage and processing accounts for only 5%. It should be
noted that the calculation of real operation and maintenance costs of CNP's
marketing and storage and processing departments is cumbersome given the current
accounting procedures which consolidate all capital investment into a single
account.
2.25        Although a sound cost recovery policy (as described in the above
paragraphs and established under a resolution of CNP's Board of Directors) will
have positive effects on reducing CNP's operational deficit, the real fiscal
benefits of CNP's reorganization under the project would arise from the
institution's divestiture and labor mobility program (with estimated budget
savings of about US$35 million per year), and steps taken towards complete
liberalization of grain markets in Costa Rica (thus reducing the estimated US$60
million per year social cost of CNP's market interventions).
IDA
2.26        IDA is required by law to recover both the direct and indirect costs
of settlements. As of October 1990 direct and indirect costs amounted to
2,650.6 million colones (equivalent to current US$22 million), of which 88.9
million colones (US$760,000) had been recovered. Not all the costs, however,
are immediately due and payable. The law allows a grace period of five years
and subsequent amortization of costs over a 20 year period with a financing
charge of 8% per year. IDA's cost recovery plan was included in the Policy
Statement following a Board of Directors' resolution (para. 4.01 (j)).
2.27        The legal requirement has not been adhered to and both the period of
recovery and the interest rate have varied between 10 and 20 years and 4% and
8%, respectively. At appraisal, the entire amount of direct and indirect costs
were not due and payable. The actual rate of cost recovery of those costs due
and payable as of October 1990 ranged between 15% and 50%.
2.28        IDA distinguishes between settlements created (or established)
before 1977 and those in subsequent years. In the former case, all costs are to
be charged (i.e the price of land and the proportionate costs per settler of
infrastructure) since the costs of land and infrastructure were relatively low.
f1- fv 1Q77 with infrastructure costs risinq rapidly to become a major percentage



- 19 -
of total costs, in most instances the cost of infrastructure has not been
allocated and charged to settlers.
2.29        IDA has presented a cost recovery plan (para. 4.01 (j)) including a
set of recommendations to be implemented under the project, and with a cost
recovery target of about 6J% of direct and indirect costs.  IDA's original
proposal has been revised incorporating: (a) a balance sheet setting out costs
immediately due, sub-divided into settlements and "Reservas Nacionales";
(b) costs to be recovered as they become due; (c) a time table for the recovery
of dues presently payable; and (d) actions, if any (since the original settler
may be long gone), to be taken against defaulters.
2.30        Costs of rural roads and bridges (48% of total costs) will not be
recovered directly from settlers in all cases since such infrastructure provides
a social "good" benefiting the community at large. Further, if the investments
are well planned, the benefits of increased welfare and income recovered
indirectly from users and IDA beneficiaries more than offset the investment
costs. The cost of the basic rural infrastructure (roads, culverts and bridges)
within IDA settlements would be recovered following the same principle as all
public investments. This action requires both, an executive decision by IDA
Board of Directors as well as a legislature amendment which would make the
system more transparent eliminating the need for any exemptions or waivers.
MAG
2.31        Provisions have also been made under the project regarding cost
recovery of operation and maintenance of laboratory services provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture (para. 4.01 (j)). The minimum level of cost recovery
for operation and maintenance of laboratory services would be determined based
on competitive costs estimates, and where necessary according to the impact of
these services on small farmers' productivity and income. Although the present
accounting system (to be improved under the project) does not allow for
precise estimates, current recovery of O&M costs is approximately 17%. User
contributions to total operation and maintenance costs of MAG's laboratory
services for the second year of project implementation is estimated at 30%.
MAG's commitmeait to improve its cost recovery scheme can be observed in the
Central Valley and Chorotega Regions where users are presently paying about 40%
of estimated O&M total costs for certain services (i.e. artificial insemination,
and genetic register).
2.32        For new investments (Plant Pathology, Nematology, Soils, Post-
harvest Physiology, Seeds, and Small Animal Production Laboratories) MAG's
target for capital cost recovery is an average of 35%. The total new investment
for improvement and construction of laboratories is estimated at US$1.9 million
equivalent.
Budaetary Impact
2.33        The project will increase efficiency in public sector operations by
strengthening planning, budgeting and monitoring of public agricultural
expenditures. The project's comprehensive approach to agricultural sector
reform is intended to achieve a substantial and permanent reduction in public
expenditures while maintaining the necessary level of public investment.
Specifically: (a) the sector's labor mobility program, referred to in para.
2.17, will result in budget savings of approximately US$3.8 million per year
--after an initial severance payment of US$5.8 million equivalent; (b) budget
Allna-ions to TnA  - P!-"rected to he reduced by aDDroximatelv US$1.94 million



- 20 -
equivalent per year as a result of the new land acquisition policyt and (c) the
new land titling methodology will reduce titling costs of the 23,500 titles to
be issued by IDA under the project by about US$2.3 million equivalent. Overall
budgetary net savings during the seven year duration of the project have been
estimated at approximately US$42 million equivalent.
2.34        CNP divestiture (paras. 2.14-2.16), including the privatization of
the Government's food retail operation and 50% of the grain processing and
storage facilities, will result in approximately US$32 million per year cut in
the Council's operational budget. In addition, and based on the results of
economic work carried out during preparation, further liberalization of basic
grain markets would have a significant effect on reducing the true economic and
social costs of CNP's physical market interventions estimated at the equivalent
of US$60 million per year (see Annex 10).
(a)  Institutional Development Component
2.35        The overall objective of the institutional development component
is to improve performance and effectiveness of agricultural public sector
institutions (Annex 3). It will achieve this by: (a) strengthening the capacity
of SEPSA to analyze the status of the sector and the impact of policies and
programs; (b) restructuring and strengthening systems for institutional and
program planning, budgeting and financial management; (c) re-organizing MAG and
IDA, delegating technical and administrative functions to the regions and
improving their administrative systems; (d) developing a common system for land
use classification and soil erosion control; and (e) implement-ing a demarcation
program of national parks and reserve areas. The cost of the sector's Labor
Mobility Program (US$5.8 million) and CNP's divestiture (US$600,000) will be
financed by the Government (paras. 2.14-2.18).
2.36        Sector Analysis. Planning, and Financial Management
BUSS5.34 million). The project would support five activities in this area:
a.    Social and Economic Sector Analysis (US$0.45 million).  Consulting
services and training would assist SEPSA units to: (i) clarify
priority policy and programmatic issues; (ii) identify and develop
needed data bases; and (iii) develop capacity for ongoing analyses
of information and evaluation of policy and programmatic
alternatives (60 person/months local and 12 person/months
international consulting and support for training).
b.    Integrated Sector Plannino. Budgetina and Financial Manaaement
System (US$0.80 million) includes analysis of sector expenditure
patterns to make them more transparent; development and
implementation of a new sector budgeting and accounting system
allowing for management of resources by programs; and development of
procedures for sector level review of programs, budgets and
expenditures (80 person/months local and 30 person/months
international consulting in financial management and computer
systems, investments in software and in-service training).
c.    Institutional and Team Development (US$0.27 million) includes
consolidation and strengthening of SEPSA's reorganized units and the
inter-organizational committees. As part of the planning
activities, the institutional development specialists would provide
management-related input to the development of the agriculture
4nfn-- F4i r i n * F-.  nA Fhb- int-ari-aA  sotm,  nlannin,r, budareting



- 21 -
and financial management system (18 person/months local and 12
person/months international consulting).
d.    Computerized Agricultural Information Network (US$3.57 million).
Statistical reporting systems and computerized data bases would be
developed in priority areas. The system would be developed by
SEPSA, working with sector organizations and the National
Directorate of Statistics and Census (DGEC) through the coordination
of the Commission on Agricultural Information and Statistics (para.
4.01 (b)).  The project would finance 194 person/months of local
consulting and 72 person/months of international consulting in
systems analysis and programming; computer hardware, software, and
other materials; and in-service training courses. In addition,
project funds would be used to contract the staff for the
Information and Statistics unit in SEPSA. An operational plan
(Master Plan) satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of
the Agricultural Information Network, to be carried out by qualified
consultants under Bank guidelines, would be prepared as a condition
of disbursement for this subcomponent (para. 4.03 (a)). The scope
and investment plan for the Agricultural Information Network is
presented in Annex 4.
e.    Soecial Studies (US$0.25 million).  During the seven years of the
project, it is anticipated that analytical studies would be required
in areas related to the further development of the sector or of the
work of a specific sector organization.  The focus and content of
these studies would be determined as needs arise, on subjects and in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.37        strengthening the Efficiency and Effectiveness of NAG and IDA
(UOS4.77 millAonl. The project would support institutional development required
by MAG and IDA to more effectively achieve their technical goals, more
particularly described in the Research and Extension, and Land Titling and
Settlement Consolidation components in paras. 2.51-2.69 and 2.70-2.91 below.
2.38        MAG (USS670.000).  The project would assist MAG to increase its
efficiency. Specific objectives are to: (a) reorganize structures and
procedures to support new technical operations; (b) fortify staff capacity; and
(c) increase efficiency of administration, finance, and logistics, by
strengthening decentralization, and by making budgets more transparent and
responsive to sector priorities. A specific Action Plan identifying functions
that HAG will delegated to the regional offices, or privatized, was discussed
and agreed during negotiations (para. 4.01 (c)). Assurances have been obtained
that MAG will imolement the agreed action nlan. including actions identified in
Para. (c) below, in terms satisfactory to the Bank commencing orior to Board
oresentation. Specific actions to be implemented under the project, includes
a.     Organization and Regional Team Develooment (USS384.000).  The
project would support the delegation of functions to the regions,
strengthening the regional offices, the Directorate of Research and
Extension, and the Superior Directorate of Regional Operations.
Training and TA would include strategic planning and institutional
change workshops for MAG management, planning sessions for each
regional office, and clarification of new technical and
administrative functions and procedures. These activities would
require 12 person/months of local and 4 person/months of
4 I   -4r  1  4n I f-nI       nAi T'Tfln, nnn) fr v ovcoanizational olanning



- 22 -
workshops in years 2 and 3 of the project, and administrative costs
equivalent to US$220,000 to the personnel to be transferred to the
regions as part of the regionalization program;
b.    Manaoement of Human and Physical Resources (USS100,000).  MAG would
rationalize its staffing pattern, based on current redundancies, the
expected privatization of some functions, and changing skill
requirements, in coordination with Government's civil service
reform. Financing would be provided for six months of local TA to
assist in developing recommendations. In-service training would be
provided to HAG staff in the new systems and procedures. The
project would fund equipment to speed communications and to save
travel costs. To ameliorate vehicle management, MAG would receive
six months of local TA to improve vehicle maintenance, including
potential privatization, rationalize fuel allocation, and
decentralize controls to the regional offices; and
c.    Financial Management and Administrative Systems (USS186000).  MAG
would participate in SEPSA's effort to develop an integrated
budgeting and accountina system (para. 2.36 (b)) including the
automation of related administrative functions.  This would be
supported by 9 months of local TA in addition to assistance provided
by SEPSA's financial management sub-component. In revenue
generation and cost-recovery (paras. 2.31-2.32), MAG would
strengthen its technical procedures and cost-recovery schemes,
supported by four months of local TA. MAG has already revised
service charges that reflect actual costs, and presented a plan for
the privatization of selected laboratory and phytosanitary services.
2.39        IDA (USS4.1 million).  The project would finance institutional
development assistance required by IDA to more effectively achieve IDA's
technical goals. TA and training would assist IDA to: (a) reorganize
organizational structures, develop procedures, adapt administrative facilities,
and provide equipment and vehicles to support the decentralization of titling
and consolidation operations to regional offices; (b) conduct periodic
organization and team development and planning activities to strengthen staff
capacity; and (c) increase efficiency and effectiveness of administrative and
financial systems to make them consistent with decentralization, more
transparent and responsive to sector priorities.
2.40        A reorganization plan was discussed and agreed during negotiations
(para. 4.01 (c)) identifying, among other matters: (a) delegation of technical
and administrative functions and responsibilities to regional offices; and
(b) transfer to the regions of approximately 30% of headquarters staff, thereby
altering the current 60:40 ratio of headquarters to field staff to at least
50:50. Assurances were obtained that IDA's reoraanization olan would be
implemented in terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 1c)). The regional
offices would be responsible for the titling process, settlement planning, and
the oversight of infrastructure development works, in coordination with MOPT.
2.41        IDA main activities under this project component would be:
a.    Oroanization and Reaional Team Development (USS120,000).  TA would
include institutional change workshops for IDA management, planning
sessions for the regional offices, and clarification of new
4  1        ; 4 4              nn4 fr.4nv  ny  nrr^ 11--    Tt-r-



- 23 -
disciplinary mobile teams would be formed at headquarters. These
teams would provide technical assistance to the regions and would
ensure appropriate linkages between the regions and headquarters (15
person/months of local and 6 person/months of international
consulting);
b.    Manaaement Information Systems (USS140.0001.  Information systems
would be strengthened through a process of identifying priority
information needs at each organizational level, designing and
implementing improved systems, and training personnel in their use.
Inputs required for this effort would be provided as part of the
development of a sector information system and sector financial
management Bystem (para. 2.37 (b) and (d)); and
c.    Organi.zation Procedures and A&nlication of Reoulations (USS8O.000Q.
The formal and informal procedures that currently exist would be
evaluated and strengthened to be consistent with new organizational
structure and functions, as well as organizational policy and the
legal and regulatory framework. Assistance in assessing procedures,
redesigning them, and ensuring their implementation would include 20
person/months local TA financed by the project. In addition, during
the project, IDA would undertake a review of legislation and
regulations affecting its operations, and will identify and propose
any modifications that would contribute to IDA's overall
effectiveness.
2.42        To support IDA's land titling and decentralization programs, the
project would finance the remodeling of small office facilities, equipment and
vehicles (25 pick-ups and 267 motorcycles at a cost of USS860,000 equivalent).
The construction of new housing facilities and incremental cost for the staff to
be transferred to the regions (US$2.9 million) would be totally financed by the
Government.
2.43        Land Uge Classification and Soil Erosion Control Proaram lUS56.5
sillion). This program would be implemented by SEPSA through an inter-
disciplinary team headed by a soil specialist to be contracted under the
project. The program's main activities would include: (a) soil and land
capability mapping in major agricultural development areas5 (b) strengthening of
the national meteorological network in those areas; (c) establishing soil
conservation demonstration plots in each of the eight geographical regions of
the country, including an economic analysis of present on-farm management
practices; and (d) establishing three erosion control test plots under different
topographic and climatic conditions in each region to provide basic data on
erosion rates throughout the country. An implementation summary for the Land
Use Classification and Soil Erosion Control Program is presented in Annex S.
2.44        The land capability mapping, to be financed by the project, would
identify agro-ecologicaL economic uniform zones. It would also provide SEPSA,
MAG's extension service, and individual farmers, sufficiently detailed
information to improve on-farm planning and productivity. With Bank's
assistance, a first approximation of the land classification mapping at a
1:250,000 scale was prepared by SEPSA during project preparation and discussed
at a technical multidisciplinary seminar. The soil and land capability mapping
would cover areas with high agricultural potential, and include detailed soil
investigations and field surveys at a 1:50,000 scale, while selected areas (i.e.
irrigation districts) would be mapped at a 1:25,000 scale. Equipment,
hi4 1   t  * for the integrated land capability mapping program,



- 24 -
with an estimated cost of US$4 million, would be procured under ICB procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.45        To strengthen the agro-meteorological data base, the project would
upgrade 45 Class B stations and construct 15 new fully automatic Class A
station. and a central receiving station in San Jose for real time receipt of
meteorological data. In addition, the project would finance climatological and
meteorological studies to be carried out in the high priority agricultural
areas. Strengthening of the national meteorological network, is estimated at
US$0.73 million.
2.46        Soil and water conservation demonstration plots would be established
in the country's eight major regions (in coordination with MAG), to illustrate
how appropriate soil management practices can improve farmer's return to land
and labor. The soil conservation demonstration plots would be integrated with
MAG's demonstration plots and would cost an estimated US$0.30 million through
the project life.
2.47        Erosion control studies would be implemented in three different
geographical areas within each of the eight major regions. Quantitative data on
soil losses under different conditions would be collected throughout the
country. These studies would build upon the main findings of the FAO report on
soil erosion in Costa Rica. The cost of the soil erosion studies to be carried
out under the project would be US$0.52 million equivalent.
2.48        Training, and equipment, for an estimated cost of US$0.95 million,
would be procured under the project. The training program would be designed to
assist local staff on the implementation of the land use classification and soil
erosion control study. Periodic short courses/seminars are planned at the
regional level to address soil conservation practices and economic land
classification. Preparation of technical bulletins, training films, and
publication of 5000 copies of a Soil Conservation Manual would also be included
in the project. In addition, a technical library covering soils, land
capability mapping and land use planning would be established in SEPSA.
2.49        Consultant services would be required for the implementation of the
land use capability studies. Short term legal consultants would carry out an
inventory of existing environmental land use legislation and propose possible
changes to the current legislation.
2.50        Demarcation of National Parks and Reserves lUSS5.1 million).  The
project would finance the demarcation of the 66 declared national parks,
biological reserves, wildlife refuges forest reserves, and protected areas, and
22 Indigenous reserves. Under the component, each area would be demarcated with
a four meter right-of-way around the perimeter and the boundaries would be
surveyed and markers implanted each 200 meters to improve protection and
discourage invasions. The demarcation would cover a perimeter of approximately
4,750 km of boundaries. Details on the demarcation of national forest and
protected areas is given in Annex 5 (Table 3). Scope of work and terms of
reference for the demarcation program were agreed during negotiations.
Similarly, MAG and MIRENEM have signed a draft operational arrangement for the
implementation of the demarcation program, including maintenance of the
demarcated parameters.



- 25 -
(b) Aqricultural Research and Extension Component
2.51        The objective of this component is to increase the productivity of
small and medium farmers through strengthened and reoriented public research and
extension. The project will induce direct participation of adaptive
researchers in diagnosing small farmer's needs, provide farm-tested
recommendations, and strengthen the link between research and extension agents.
To achieve these objectives, MAG will streamline its operations and thereby
become more efficient. Prior to Board Presentation, administrative action
(IDA's and CNP's Board of Directors' resolutions) was taken to ensure that MAG
will become the sole agency of public research and extension, eliminating
duplication with other agencies (para. 4.01 (f)). Under the project, MAG would
reduce the cost per farmer of extension by replacing its single-farmer approach
with a group methodology. It would improve the quality of extension staff
through training and technical support. The project would improve the
competitiveness of extension by promoting private technical assistance for small
and medium producers. The operation would improve research by investing in
infrastructure, financing the marginal cost of changing commodity priorities
according to the country's comparative advantage, focusing on market's demand,
and providing the required training to research staff. The project would
advance closer links among basic, applied and adaptive research, and extension.
2.52        Agricultural Research IUSSS.06 million).  The research component
would: (a) help MAG define a more appropriate role for public research;
(b) design research to address farmers' needs; (c) generate new technologies;
(d) validate those techniques under farm conditions; and (e) improve the
diffusion of research results to extensionists and farmers.
2.53        The re-defined role of public agricultural research would be as
follows. The research program would be carried out within the National System
of Research and Technology Transfer (SNITTA), and the 21 National Sectoral
Programs (PNS). This would enable MAG to avoid duplication with the private
sector, and encourage producers' commodity associations, cooperatives and
universities to work with small farmers. MAG would concentrate on adaptive
research and validation of technologies for basic grains, livestock, and
non-traditional exports. MAG would also provide central laboratory services.
The necessary basic research--in areas like plant protection and improvement--
would be contracted to universities and international agencies.
2.54        This would require an increase in on-farm testing with a production
systems approach where the researcher would act as the subject matter
specialist. To adapt research to local conditions, MAG would reorganize its
regional research personnel into interdisciplinary teams that would assist small
farmers.
2.55        The reoriented research program would concentrate on identifying
productive crop cultivars with characteristics important to small farmers, such
as good storage, disease resistance and high fertilizer response at low dosage.
Inter-cropping, minimum tillage and integrated pest management would be adapted
for such farmers. Pest monitoring would be expanded to limit the use of
pesticides. Optimum stands for mixed cropping would be defined for different
land types. No-till cropping systems would be tested for soil conservation.
2.56        The project would carry out approximately 30% of applied research on
farms. Much of this work would be technology validation trials on topics and at
sites chosen by farmers and would be executed in collaboration with extension.



- 26 -
2.57        The research component wtould finance on-farm adaptive research,
testing, contracting research, laboratories, and civil works, vehicles,
equipment, and goods at research stations.
a.    On-farm Adaptive Research (USS1.14 millions.  The project would
finance equipment, material, and other costs for an expanded program
of on-farm adaptive research.  Priority crops would be maize, beans,
rice, and sorghum. Technical themes to be studied would be defined
after a review of research information. All work would be done in
close collaboration with the extension system to ensure that it is
relevant to farmers' priorities.
b.    Trainino (USSO.55 million).  The project would finance academic and
in-service training of research staff. The Government has chosen
priorities in group research and extension, production economics,
agricultural marketing, small animal breeding, pest management, and
post-harvest physiology. Academic training overseas will be
considered by the Bank for priority areas on a case-by-case basis.
Ao a condition of disbursements for training expenditures, post-
graduate studies will be approved by the Bank (para. 4.03 (e)).
Private firms and government specialists will also give in-service
training in Costa Rica.
C.    Contract Research (USSO.70 million).  The project would fund
collaborative research among HAG, universities and other qualified
institutions in Costa Rica. The research would be on topics in
which HAG has no qualified staff or appropriate facilities.
Contracts would be allocated either directly as part of the research
priority setting process, or through competitive bidding, depending
on their size (paras. 3.03-3.04).
d.    Agricultural Laboratories (USSO.77 million).  The project would fund
construction and remodeling of laboratories, computing equipment,
vehicles, supplies and training for plant pathology, entomology, and
nematology.  Soil analysis capability would be upgraded in the eight
regional offices of MAG. The operation would assist post-harvest
physiology laboratories with construction and remodeling in the main
basic grain, fruit, and vegetable production areas. Training of
staff (18 months of external consulting) would be required, as well
as procurement of equipment, supplies, vehicles, and construction of
small test warehouses with packing facilities, cold rooms, and
offices. Equipment would be purchased to improve the seed
laboratory in the areas of varietal identification, pathology,
germination, and viability. Remodeling of existing laboratory
facilities, equipment, supplies, vehicles and training would be
financed. The project would also fund construction, equipment,
vehicles and training of field personnel for small-animal production
laboratories.
e.    Research Stations (USSl.9 million).  The operation would provide
funds for upgrading the main research stations at the Chorotega,
Atl&ntico, Huetar Norte, and Brunca regions. Investments would be
in farm equipment, greenhouses, and station development. Staff
training would be provided in research methods and management.
e  a*-4n inn j11tP1.14  4114 nl.  Thp n-roiect would assist the



- 27 -
(a) create a unified public extension service in MAG, in which subject matter
specialists would support generalist extension workers; (b) change extension
methodology from crop-specific technical assistance to a farming system approach
targeted to groups of farmers; (c) train extension personnell (d) fortify
research/extension links; (e) provide systematic monitoring and evaluation;
(f) eliminate barriers to competition in extension; (g) promote private
technical assistance to qualified small and medium farmers via an Extension
Voucher Pilot Program; and (h) improve cost-recovery for public services.
2.59        Under the project, only the MAG will do public research and
extension, thus eliminating duplication of activities among agricultural public
sector institutions. Prior to Board presentation (para. 4.01 (f)), extension
staff from CNP and IDA were transferred to the Directorate of Research and
Extension (DGIE) of MAG. As part of the labor mobility program, MAG has
eliminated 54 administrative positions (para. 2.17). In addition, assurances
have been obtained from the Government to comnlete the transfer of 111 staff by
pecember. 1993 from San Jose to MAG's regional offices. under a Rlan agreed
during negotiations, as soecified in MAG's "Decentralization Action Plan" sianed
by the Government and referred to in the Loan Agreement (nara. 4.01 (c)}.
2.60        To lower extension costs per farmer, the service would shift from
individual farm visits to a group approach (Annex 6). The new methodology would
cover approximately 50% (or about 45,000 farmers) of Costa Rica's estimated
small farmer population, at project completion. Group extension would cut
personnel costs and raise present farmer to extensionist ratio of 25'1 to 75:1
in the first year of the project. By the end of the project the farmer to
extensionist ratio is expected to reach 170:1 to 190:1 at completion.
2.61        As part of the new group extension methodology (Annex 6), MAG will
assist in organizing small farmer groups. MAG would do an initial analysis of
farmer characteristics and use the results to define technology transfer
priorities. The priorities would determine the Technology Validation Trials
(TVTs), on-farm demonstrations, and other activities in technology transfer,
project preparation, credit, marketing, and farm management. Individual
extensionists would then work with each group. MAG extension staff would
concentrate only on the technical and commercial aspects of production. Social
problems, expected to arise as farmer priorities, would be referred to the line
Government agency. An integral part of the new strategy is the use of mass
media to reach more farmers.
2.62        Staff and producer training will improve MAG's ability to transfer
technology. Within the unified public extension service, generalist extension
staff will receive basic training in methods appropriate to small and medium
producers. Specialized extension staff (for example, in plant protection) will
give these courses and otherwise assist the generalist staff with particular
problems. Courses would be carried out for approximately 350 extensionists at
all levels, covering extension methodology and communication skills, technology,
and management. Training for subject matter specialists would include farm
management, soil and water conservation, and integrated pest management. Two
local marketing specialists would train producers and extensionists in quality
control, post-harvest treatment, storage, packaging, and handling of
agricultural products. Approximately eight months of internationally recruited
consultancy would be provided to support the training program.
2.63        Field demonstrations will allow better adaptation of technology to
farmers' needs, provide essential information to scientists, and thereby better



- 28 -
would be imp3amented in the national commodity programs, concentrating on maize,
beans, roots and tubers, palm heart, ornamentals, pineapples, and exotic fruits.
Demonstrations on farm mechanization, soil erosion, and peat management would
also be executed. Demonstrations would reach about 2,000 plots (one per 40
farmers) by project completion. Much of the cost of the demonstrations would be
recovered from farmers, who would p;ovide land and labor to complement the
material inputs from MAG.
2.64        Conditions under the proposed operation would encourage competition
in extension. Prior to Board presentation, the Government issued a Decree
repealing limitations on agriculturalists' professional activities, and linking
credit to technical assistance in a compulsory manner. Assurances have been
obtained that this decree will not be amended, abrogated or repealed if such
actions would adversely and materially affect the implementation of the project
(para. 4.01 (g)).
2.65        Private Technical Assistance Voucher Pilot Program IUSS4.l million).
As part of MAG's reorganization, some extension personnel will move to the
private sector. To increase the capacity of agricultural producers
(particularly small farmers), the project would support a Voucher "Pilot"
Program to increase the capacity of producers to contract private extension.
The target groups would be low income producers, currently producing beyond the
subsistence level who have the potential to become commercial farmers. These
farmers would include those who are presently being assisted by MAG, CNP or IDA,
or who receive no assistance at all. Selection criteria based on farm size and
cropping pattern were agreed at appraisal. Prior to neaotiations, an initial
baseline analysis was carried out in MAG's eight regional offices, defining MAG,
voucher, and research target groups. Similarly, a draft agreement between MAG
and Banco Nacional de Costa Rica (BNCR) to implement the voucher program has
already been signed. As a condition of disbursement for the voucher program,
the referred agreement would have to become effective (para. 4.03 (b)).
2.66        The PTA voucher "pilot" program would consist of packages of
vouchers by type of farmer and level of technology (Annex 6 - Table 1). Farmers
would trade vouchers for individual and group technical assistance delivered by
private extensionists.  Type 1 and Type 2 farmers would be classified as needing
high or low intensity technical assistance. Farmers moving from basic grains
into non-traditional export, high technology traditional export crops, and small
livestock production would be in Type 1. Farmers with traditional livestock or
perennial crops, requiring less technical assistance, would be in Type 2.  At
project completion, beneficiaries of the pilot voucher program are expected to
continue with private technical assistance without government support. Private
extensionists would report annually to HAG and recommend individual farmers who
should graduate from the program. Training would be provided for private
extensionists including a five-day introductory course, optional specialization
courses, and 10 days of annual refresher courses. The National Commission for
Research and Technology Transfer, the Agronomists Union, the Union of
Veterinarians, producer cooperatives, and plan to collaborate with MAG in these
courses.
2.67        During the expected seven year project implementation period,
approximately 14,000 farmers would receive vouchers (Annex 6, Table 1). About
275,000 vouchers would have been distributed at project completion, at an
estimated cost of US$4.77 million, including physical contingencies to finance
additional vouchers if demand warrants it. HAG's contribution of approximately
42% of the program's costs, equivalent to US$2.00 million, which is expected to
I 1 -  1% 14 nn..   ^  -  P-r,li4p - waa 1



- 29 -
contribute approximately 17% of program cost. A summary of the financing plan
for the PTA Voucher Pilot Program is given in Annex 6, Table 2.
2.68        Vehicles 5IUs$2.2 MillionU.  To support the reorganization of
research and extension, the project would provide for adequate transportation at
the regional and field levels. Pickups, four wheel drive vehicles, microbuses
and motorcycles would be procured under the project. Approximately 95 pickups
and 30 four-wheel drive vehicles, 6 microbuses (to be assigned to the group
technical assistance program), and 164 motorcycles would be purchased during
project implementation. As a condition of disbursement against new vehicles
under the project, (para. 4.03 (c)), MAG and IDA would have to sell or dispose
of at least 240 non-operational or high maintenance cost vehicles. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the number and criteria to be used for
the selection of vehicles.
2.69        Audio visual materials 1US0.40 million). The project would assist
MAG with audio visual materials to disseminate information about new technology.
A branch of MAG would: (a) assemble relevant scientific and technical
information; (b) prepare and diffuse materials for extension agents and subject
matter specialists; and (c) provide general information to farmers, particularly
through radio and television broadcasts. Materials for audiovisual programs
would be produced jointly with research and extension institutions, to emphasize
the cheapest extension recommendations and to ensure suitability for farmer
adoption. To support these functions, the project would provide for six months
of consultancy in audiovisual media.
(c) Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation Comoonent
2.70        The component would improve IDA's ability to more efficiently and
effectively achieve its goals of land titling and settlement consolidation
--defined as the provision of basic infrastructure up to specified minimum
standards.  To that end, the component would: (a) provide for titling of
approximately 23,500 parcels of land under IDA's management; (b) improve access
conditions through the construction and/or rehabilitation of about 350 km of
rural roads; (c) construct community facilities and services to reach minimum
standards within a period not to exceed three to five years from the date on
which consolidation procedures commence; (d) make provisions for the
implementation of a cost recovery plan; and (e) support institutional reforms
(paras. 2.39-2.42) including reallocation of staff, both in terms of numbers and
skills, and the corresponding budgetary allocations between the Regional and
Central offices in relation to IDA's program and goals (paras. 2.19-2.20).
2.71        Land Titling IUS$4.7 millionl.  Of the 562 settlements (covering an
area of 633,190 ha) under IDA's management, 106 settlements representing 71,500
ha are being supported under specific aid programs (i.e. USAID in the north, and
IBRD in the Atlantic region), and another 94 settlements have encountered
serious titling problems since they are situated in declared forest, indigenous,
or biological reserves, or are affected by unresolved legal issues.
2.72        The project would concentrate on the grant of titles in the
remaining 362 settlements (including 10 population centers which are former
large estates where common services can be provided) and in six programs
(defined as areas in the national reserves where IDA only undertakes demarcation
and titling but is not responsible for the provision of services). In effect,
the project would assist the granting of about 21,300 titles--representing a
total area of about 336,000 ha--in those settlements, population centers and



- Ju -
programs which are neither being assisted under other aid programs (i.e. IBRD
Ln. 2764-CR and USAID) nor have legal problems.
2.73        It is estimated that an additional 19,000 titles would need to be
issued in order to regularize all lands (including protected areas) under IDA's
responsibility. Titling unit costs to be financed under the project have been
estimated at an average of US$200 per title. This would represent a significant
reduction from the current titling cost of about US$280 per title. The long and
cumbersome procedures which require IDA to follow 19 steps before titles were
issued has been reviewed and improved (determining which ones would be carried
simultaneously and/or contracted out), under terms discussed and agreed during
appraisal. Details of the estimated investment costs of the Land Titling
program to be financed under the project are presented in Annex 7.
2.74        The titling component would be implemented by IDA and divided into
three phases of implementation according to the degree of difficulty to complete
the titling and consolidation processes.  It would commence in those settlements
with both a minimum existing infrastructure and no legal constraints to titling.
During this first phase, the project would concentrate on completing the titling
process on an estimated 17 settlements and four programs covering an area of
67,000 ha, representing approximately 3.623 land titles.  Additional titling
within the balance of 345 settlements, 10 population centers and in two programs
would be carried out according to progress in the construction of minimum
infrastructure within these settlements.
2.75        The land titling program second phase (expected to start at year two
of project implementation) would cover 275 settlements and two programs, and
would comprise the issuinq of 15,080 titles. Titling of the remaining 70
settlements (third phase) representing approximately 2.570 titles. would be
deferred until IDA has clearlv demarcated the boundaries of those settlements.
Present land use llans and technical and economic iustification for the
rehabilitation and construction of rural infrastructure, and assess
environmental impact of that settlement consolidation process. The actual
demarcation of the 70 settlements, preparation of land use plans, technical and
economic justification of the rural infrastructure (para. 2.81), and
environmental impact assessment would be conditions of disbursement for
expenditures incurred under the third phase of the land titling program (para.
4.03 (d)). General guidelines to be used on environmental assessment were
agreed upon during appraisal. Assurances have been obtained that the Government
will adopt and anilied these auidelines throughout iroiect imolementation (Para.
4.01 Ih)).  It is anticipated that from the fourth year of project
implementation, titling would commence in these settlements.
2.76         JA statutes and regulations require the preparation of land use
plans for each settlement so as to prepare cropping and land use systems which
are related to the capability of land and are environmentally sustainable. At
present these plans are lacking in most instances. The project would assist in
the formulation of agricultural development plans for each of the settlements of
the land titling and settlement consolidation program. The agricultural plans
would be linked with and derived from the Land Use Classification Program (para.
2.43). IDA would prepare the agricultural plans with the assistance of SEPSA
and MAG and external consultants. The estimated cost of preparing the plans is
US$0.47 million.
2.77        Cadastral Implementation and Titlin .  All geographical and other
relevant information would be digitalized for computerized storage and
processing, and the production of about 22,000 title documents for rural



J.1.
properties. About 30% of these would be recognition documents for valid titles
issued by past administrations. Data obtained through the cadastre process
would be regularly updated, and data pertaining to the public domain would be
available against a fee to all public and private users. These fees would then
be used for cadastral maintenance.
2.78        Provisions have been made within the project for the construction of
basic infrastructure and issuing of 2,200 titles in new settlements. This would
require Land Tenure Identification comprising: (a) production of microfilms
of all land registry documents of the area covered under the component
(336,000 ha), to analyze the line of conveyance of properties; (b) widespread
notification of the Government's intention to review and regularize ownership
rights in the area selected for adjudication; (c) field surveys, based on
orthomapping, leading to the delimitation of public and private properties;
(d) the identification of all tenants and occupants established within
identified properties and evaluation of their claims; (e) a first estimate
of the land agricultural production capability (based on the YLand Use
Classification Program (para. 2.43) and market value of those lands, including a
census of existing infrastructure and crops; and (f) the preparation of
agricultural development plans. Microfilming of all land registry documents
would be provided by IDA at no incremental cost to the project.
2.79        Settlement Consolidation--Rural Roads infrastructure--(USS9.15
.illipal. This sub-component (Annex 8) would be implemented by the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MOPT) with the assistance of IDA, and would include
access roads, culverts and bridges as necessary.
2.80        No additional infrastructure would be required for the 157
settlements comprising the first phase of the titling program (para. 2.74).
Consequently, the project would initially concentrate on the consolidation of 84
settlements with agricultural potential, and where the titling process is on an
advanced stage of development. Consolidation of these 84 settlements would
include improvement and rehabilitation of approximately 355 km of feeder and
secondary roads, and construction of communal buildings and drinking water
facilities. Rura1 roads would be designed according to the minimum standards
adopted by MOPT for Aow volume rural roads: 4 m width and 0.15-0.20 m all
weather gravel or dirt surface, depending on anticipated load conditions and
soils available for embankment and where suitable borrowed materials are
available within a reasonable distance of all construction or rehabilitation
sites. During a first phase, the program would include about 180 km in 35
settlements.
2.81        Provisions would be made under the project for the rehabilitation
and improvement of an additional 175 km of rural roads on eligible settlements
to be titled in the third phase of the titling program (para. 2.75). As a
condition of disbursement, Bank financing of these rural roads would be subject
to economic evaluation, engineering standards, and environmental assessment
satisfactory to the Bank to be carried out by IDA/MOPT (para. 4.03 (d)).
2.82        Operation and Maintenance would be carried out under terms defined
in the action plan for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads of the
Transport Sector Project (Loan 3205-CR) with road maintenance efforts to be
coordinated between MOPT, Municipalities, Development Councils (i.e. IDA), and
other community organizations. Each community will enter into a maintenance
Agreement with MOPT. While the former would be committed to provide routine
road maintenance--with tools to be provided by IDA, MOPT would be responsible
for the equipped-based periodic works. These works would be executed by



-  JA  -
contract, in line with the Government's policy of gradual reduction of MOPT'e
force account operations. Periodic maintenance would be financed under the
project. In order to ensure adeauate periodic maintenance-of investments to be
financed under the Proiect. a draft standardized maintenance aareement to be
sianed between MOPT and the IDA communities has been -reoared by the Government
in terms satisfactory to the Bank {para. 4.01 WiL. A summary of the
maintenance program is presented in Annex S.
2.83        Under the cost recovery plan agreed during negotiations (paras.
2.26, and 4.01 (j)) IDA will: (a) limit its involvement in settlements to the
minimum time necessary to provide the basic infrastructure; (b) formally inform
settlers about the cost payable (both towards capital and interest); and
(c) enforce existing regulations establishing recovery of proportionate costs of
settlement and the cost of the plot from settlers.
2.84        Settlement Consolidation--Community Pacilities and Services
(USS5.2 million) (Annex 9). This sub-component which would be implemented by
IDA with the assistance of the Ministry of Education (MEP) and the National
Water Company (AyA), would provide for the construction of water supply
installations, classrooms, teacher houses and multi-purpose community rooms in
settlement centers. Provision of these facilities is expected to foster the
economic development of the settlements by ensuring the settlers, adequate
access to basic social services as it would create for the latter a strong
stimulus to intensify and/or expand agricultural production efforts.
2.85        The sub-component would be implemented in two phases.  A first Phase
Program would benefit 17 settlements with a total population of around 3,400 for
which needs have been quantified on t}e basis of field surveys carried out by
IDA. A Second Phase Program would address the needs of settlements to be
identified during implementation of the program's first phase and using the same
selection criteria. The specific features of this Second Phase Program would be
determined based on the findings of the mid-term review which would assess the
performance of the different component elements and allow for possible technical
and financial adjustments (para. 2.95).
2.86        To support IDA's decentralization program (para. 2.40), the project
would finance the remodeling of regional offices (US$1.2 million) to meet the
administrative needs of incremental staff transferred from San Jose to the
regions. All remodeling subprojects would have to be revised by an engineer
specialized in antiseismic structures and require prior review and approval by
the Bank. Guidelines for the remodeling of regional offices were discussed and
agreed during negotiations (para. 4.01 (k)). Housing facilities to accommodate
the new staff assigned to the regions, estimated to cost about US$1 million
equivalent, would be constructed under the project and entirely financed by the
Government.
2.87        Preparation of final designs and implementation of works for water
supply installations would be carried out by IDA with the support of the
National Water Company (AyA). Terms and conditions of this support as discussed
during appraisal, have been defined in an Interinstitutional Technical
Assistance Agreement between IDA and AyA. In addition to the modalities of the
assistance in preparatory activities, the final agreement--to be signed after
ratification of the Loan by the Assembly--will also determine the technical and
financial conditions under which AyA would ensure proper periodic maintenance
of the installations. Likewise, for the preparation of final designs and
supervision of works for the classrooms and teacher houses, IDA has entered into
an Interinstitutional Technical Assistance Agreement with MEP. Under this



- 43. -
agreement, MEP guarantees the provision of adequate teaching personnel in terms
of number and quality.
2.88.       Regular operation and maintenance of all infrastructure will be a
responsibility of the benefitting communities. This has been ensured under
conditions spelled out in IDA's Statement of Policies (para. 4.01 (i)).
2.89.       To ensure that all possible environmental effects of the proposed
settlement consolidation program are adequately assessed, it has been agreed
that MOPT, in coordination with IDA, will furnish to the Bank no later than June
30 of each year an implementation program for the subsequent year, with its
corresponding environmental assessment on construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads to be financed under the project (para. 4.01 (1)).
MOPT would discharge this responsibility using existing capabilities in the
Ministry of Natural Resources Energy and Mines (MIRENEM) and/or through
qualified consultants. For this purpose provisions would be made within the
project for 15 person/month of consultancy services in an amount equivalent to
US$65,000.
2.90.       The project would fund a study (US$40,000) for the demarcation,
titling and development of indigenous groups and land which they presently
occupy. The study carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, would be undertaken by IDA in association with CONAI, and would be
completed and available for Bank review and approval within one year from the
date of project effectiveness. The project would make provisions for the
possible funding of land titling and consolidation of these indigenous
settlements (para. 4.01 (m)).
2.91.       As agreed during negotiations, the Ministers of Agriculture (MAG),
and of Natural Resources, Energy and Mines (MIRENEM) have signed a statement of
policy, regarding occupants of national parks and natural and biological
reserves, other than indigenous reserves (para. 4.01 (n)). This statement of
policy affirms the principles, inter alia, that boundaries would be re-defined
to exclude areas presently occupied except were such occupation constitutes a
threat to the integrity of the park or the reserve. In the latter event, the
Government would relocate the occupants or expropriate the land and paid
compensation as provided by law. A study would be undertaken of the extent of
occupation within the delimited area of the natural reserves to unable the
Government to determine what areas presently within the existing boundaries need
to be excluded from the reserves. The referred study will be completed within
one year of the date of loan effectiveness and will also identify occupants who
would be relocated.
ornanization and Implesentation
2.92.       As a condition of effectiveness a Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) responsible for overall project coordination would be established by SEPSA
(para. 4.02 (a)). Its responsibilities would include: (a) consolidating project
operational plans, and progress and project completion reports, based on the
information submitted by the executing agencies; (b) identifying possible
implementation gaps and ensuring that appropriate action is taken to resolve
those gaps; (c) reviewing and consolidating the executing agencies' annual
operating plans and prepare a project budget; (d) coordinating the preparation
of documents for the procurement of goods and services; (e) confirming the
availability of counterpart funding; and (f) monitoring key indicators and
evaluating overall performance of the proposed project. The PCU would be
comprised of a coordinator, one project specialist, one public administration



- 34 -
specialist, one procurement expert, one accountant, and three administrative
staff. The cost of the PCU's project coordinating activities is estimated at
about US$0.80 million including fees, equipment, vehicle, and local consulting
services (6 person/month) for mid-term project evaluation (para. 2.95). The PCU
would be financed under the project and its staff would be selected under Bank
guidelines for the selection of consultants.
2.93.       In addition, and also as a condition of loan effectiveness, a
Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be formed, headed by the Minister of
Agriculture as head of the CAN, with the Director of SEPSA acting as Technical
Secretary (para. 4.02 (a)). The PSC would meet at least three times a year and
comprise representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, and Public
Works, and of IDA, and CNP. The PSC would meet with the objective of resolving
possible inter-institutional problems and to smooth overall project
implementation.
2.94.       The project would be implemented by: SEPSA, MAG, and IDA
(institutional development component), MAG (agricultural extension and applied
research component), IDA and MOPT (land titling and settlement consolidation
component, respectively). Prior to project effectiveness each executing agency
would appoint a project coordinator to serve as a liaison between the agency and
the PCU (para. 4.02 (b)). Annual operating plans would be prepared by each
executing agency and submitted to the PCU three months before the end of each
fiscal year. The annual operating plans would outline component's objectives,
implementation schedule, and specify resource (human and financial) allocations.
An annual operating plan for the first year of project implementation has been
prepared and agreed upon with each executing agency during negotiations (para.
4.01 (o)).
2.95.       A rigorous process of project monitoring and review would be
essential given the extent of institutional changes, range of actions planned,
and number of organizations involved in implementation. Annual reviews would
focuo on evaluations of progress against the annual operating plans, measures of
project performance and impact (Annex 11), and issues of overall project
management. The structure of these reviews (presented in Annex 12) was
discussed and agreed during negotiations and will be attached as a Supplemental
Letter to the Loan Agreement (para. 4.01 (p)). The result of the annual review
would be the agreement on next year's operating plan, including the
incorporation of remedial measures to address specific problems identified in
the review. Thus, the annual review to be held in March of every year starting
in 1993, and planning process will provide a tool for ongoing refinements in
project strategies and plans, consistent with the overall objectives of the
project. An in-depth mid-term review would be carried out at the end of the
third year of project implementation (December 1994) to assess progress, re-
evaluate and agree on possible changes in design and implementation for the
second half of the project. A detailed description of the areas to be addressed
and follow-up actions to be agreed in the annual and mid-term reviews is
presented in the Supervision Schedule (Annex 12). Project targets and follow-up
actions, to be discussed and agreed during an annual and a mid-term review, will
be defined in accordance to the Project Performance Indicators which are a
Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement. In the event that progress in
project implementation is not satisfactory, the Government shall implement
remedial actions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 (p)).
2.96.       To assist with the project start-up process, a Project Launch
Workshop would be held, with Project Review and Planning Workshops held



- 35 -
annually thereafter. The purpose of the Project Launch Workshop would be to
ensure that project coordinators and managers of the implementing agencies
develop a common understanding of the project, its overall objectives and
specific targets, as well as the implementation role of each agency. A major
focus of the workshop would be to review and refine the operation level
implementation plan of each executing agency, identifying and planning for
areas of required coordination among agencies. As part of the workshop, the
structure of overall project management would be reviewed as well as issues
addressed regarding and procurement and disbursement procedures. The annual
Project Review and Planning Workshops would involve project progress review,
identification of implementation problems and issues, and planning for the
upcoming year.
2.97.          The Project Launch and Project Review and Planning workshops
tentatively scheduled for the second quarter of 1992 and the third quarter of
years 1993, 1995 and 1996 respectively, would be conducted by professional
worksbop facilitators, working with the PCU in SEPSA. The workshops would
incorporate techniques of participating planning and small group work in order
to allow organizational representatives an opportunity to actively and
productively address implementation issues. The results of the workshop would
be documented in a workshop report to provide guidance to the participants for
the preparation of their annual operational plans. Provisions would be made
under the project to finance consulting services for the workshop- organization
through the duration of the project.
2.98.          The legal mechanism to implement the project would be outlined
in a contractual arrangement between MAG and IDA. In the case of the Extension
and Applied Research component, the Institutional Development component, and
the Settlement Consolidation subcomponent to be implemented by MAG's
Directorate for Research and Extension (DGIE), SEPSA, and MOPT, respectively,
transfer of funds would be regulated by the Ministry of Finance, and internal
HAG resolution through the Directorate for Administration. Draft contractual
arrangement have been signed and agreements concerning the implementation of
such arrangements reached during negotiations. The signing of such a contract
between MAG and IDA for the implementation of the Land Titling Component would
be a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.02 (c)). Assurances have been aiven
by the Government (Ministry of Finance) that adecruate counterpart funds--
includina operation and maintenance--will be made avaLlable to the respective
implementina aaencies throuah their yearly budgets (para. 4.01 (q)).
Costs
2.99.          Total project costs (net of taxes and duties) are estimated at
about US$70 million with a foreign exchange component of about 42%. Price
contingencies, equivalent to 10.5% of baseline costs, have been included at a
rate of 3.4% per annum between 1992-1998. Physical contingencies, equivalent
to 4.4% of baseline costs, have been applied at a rate of 10% for civil works
(rural roads and buildings) and equipment and 5% for vehicles and other goods.
All civil works, land use classification and soil erosion program, and land
titling (to the extent possible), would be carried out by contract. Consultant
costs have been calculated at a level of US$12,000 per person/month for
international consultants and US$3,000 per person/month for most local



- 36 -
consultants. A project cost summary, and total project costs by financier and
disbursement category, are presented in Annexes 16 and 17, respectively.
III. THE LOAN
rinangan
3.01      The proposed US$41 million Bank loan would be made to the Government
at the standard variable interest rate for a term of 17 years, including five
years of grace. The origin of the loan is discussed in para. 2.01 and
implementation arrangements in paras. 2.92-2.98. The proposed Bank loan of
US$41 million equivalent would finance 58.6% of total project costs including
approximately 30% of local currency expenditures. Bank financing would cover:
(a) 56% of eligible civil works; (b) 100% of vehicles and 100% of foreign
exchange and 80% of local currency for eligible equipment for all components;
(c) 100% of technical assistance for local and international consultants and
private auditors costs for all components; (d) 100% for training and special
studies; and (e) approximately 41% of eligible incremental operating
expenditures derived from the implementation of the Private Technical
Assistance (PTA) Voucher "Pilot" Program which would be financed by the Bank on
a declining basis for years one to seven at a rate of 100% for the first two
years to 80%, 60%, 40%, 20%, and 10% respectively for the remaining five years
of the project. The financing plan for the PTA voucher "pilot" program is
given in Annex 6, Table 1. A summary of the financing plan by project
component is presented in Annex 18.
3.02      The financial requirements of the project would exceed available
local savings, thus--as indicated in para. 3.01 above--requiring Bank financing
of approximately 30% of local costs. Local cost financing would be necessary
given the substantial deterioration of Costa Rica's capacity to mobilize
domestic resources. The Government's stabilization program aimed at raising
revenues and reducing local expenditures by adjusting the fiscal accounts and
implementing significant cuts in capital expenditures, has severely constrained
the public investment budgets. This situation was aggravated by the collapse
in the international coffee agreement in September 1989 and the rise in oil
prices in the second half of 1990. In addition, significant domestic public
savings will be required for rehabilitation and reconstruction of
infrastructure damaged or destroyed by the earthquake that hit Costa Rica in
May 1991, and floods that affected that country's Atlantic Region in July 1991.
Procurme-nt
3.03      Procurement for all eligible Bank-financed items would be as follows:
a.   Civil Works.  Civil works contracts would be procured under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines. To the extent possible, contracts would
be grouped in packages higher than US$1,000,000 equivalent to attract
participation of foreign contractors. Contracts estimated to cost
below US$1 million equivalent each, and not to exceed an aggregate



- 37 -
amount of US$11 million equivalent may be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each and not to
exceed an aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent, may be awarded
through local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. To
minimize adverse impact on the environment during construction,
specifications in the bidding documents for the major works (rural
roads and communal facilities) would include clauses under which
contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or mitigate
environmental damagel and
b.   goods and Consultant services.  Lots in excess of US$250,000
equivalent would be procured through ICB procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines; lots under US$25,000 and up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$500,000, by local or international shopping,
with quotations of at least three eligible suppliers; and lots
between US$25,000 and US$250,000 up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to US$2 million by local competitive bidding procedure. acceptable to
the Bank. Vehicles required for the project, including pickups,
four-wheel drives, microbuses, and motorcycles, estimated to cost
US$3.5 million--including maintenance for the first three years--
would be grouped in packages estimated to cost US$250,000 or more.
Local manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with Bank guidelines for all contracts procured following
ICB procedures. In particular LCB contracts for goods and works
wouldt (i) allow a minimum of 30 days between the date of publication
of the last advertisement and the bid opening date; (ii) make
provision for each bidding to be advertised for at least three days
in a national newspaper of wide circulation; (iii) allow for bidders
to submit their bids by mail; and (iv) allow foreign bidders who wish
to participate to do so. Consultants for studies and technical
assistance under the project, would be selected and appointed under
procedures, terms of reference, and conditions of contract
satisfactory to the Bank. Terms of reference and short lists of
consultants would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank.
3.04      Review of Procurement Decisions.  All ICB procedures, as well as the
first two LCB contracts for works and for goods would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the
Bank. Uniform procurement procedures using standard bidding documents would be
followed for the acquisition of goods and, for all civil works (in accordance
with the Transport Sector Loan standards), depending on the applicable bidding
procedure agreed with the Bank (LCB or ICB).



- 38 -
1.bl. 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS _/
(USS million)
i          Project Element          |      ICB            LCB             Other             N.A.      |  Total Cost
Civil Works                           2.9             11.0                            2.0 h/              15.9
______________________________        (1.4)           (6.0)                           (0.0)                (7.4)
Equipment                             5.1              2.2           0.6              -                    7.9
l _____________________________       (5.3)           (2.0)          (0.5)                                 (7.8)
Vehicles                              3.5              -             -                0.7 _/               4.2
(3.5)                                           (0.0)               (3.5)
Training and Studies                  _                -             2,3 _/                                2.3
______________________________                      ~~~~~~(2.3)     __ _ _  _ _ _ _       (2.3)
Servico Packages                     12.0d/           _-              -                                   12.0
(10.7)                                                              (10.7)
Technical Assistance                                _ -              7.3 c_           -                    7.3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        (7.3)           _ _ _ __7_3_         (7.3)
Operating Costs                                                                       9.3 el               9.3
l __________________________        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________              (2.0)                (2.0)
Oher Costs                            -                -              -               11.1ff              11.1
I____________    __________     _____________     (0.0)                (0.0)
TOTAL                                23.5             13.2          10.2              23.1                70.0
____________________________   (20.9)                 (8.0)         (10.1)            (2.0)               (41.0)
a/      Values in parentheses show amounts to be financed by the Bank.
bl     Items to be financed by the Govermnent.
-I      Consulting services.
d/      Service package for the land titling program, the land use classification program, and the demarcation of reserve areas.
e/      On a decreasing basis (see Annex 14).
f/     Includes costs of the Govenument's labor mobility program, the divestiture of some of CNP activities, and incremental expenses
derived from IDA's decentralization progam.
Disbursement and Special Account
3.05            The proposed project is expected to be fully disbursed over a seven
year period, consistent with the standard disbursement profile applicable to
Costa Rica. Bank disbursements would be made against all components, with the
exception of the project's labor mobility program. The closing date will be
June 30, 1999. The allocation of Loan Proceeds and the estimated schedule of
Bank disbursements are presented in Annexes 14 and 15, respectively.
3.06            To expedite implementation, a special account in US dollars with an
authorized allocation of US$2.5 million, equivalent to an estimated four months
of average disbursements, would be established in the Central Bark of Costa
Rica (BCCR). The Bank would replenish the Special Account for the amoitut of
the withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of the
Borrower. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) for all contracts for works valued at less than US$500,000
equivalent and for goods and equipment contracts valued at less than US$250,000
equivalent. The documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the
executing agencies, with copies in the PCU, and made available to Bank staff
during supervision missions. All other expenditure would be fully documented.



- 39 
3.07      With the objective of ensuring timely availability of counterpart
funds, assurances have been obtained, and agreed as a condition of
effectiveneasa. that each executing agency would establish its own groject
account in a local commercial bank. and maintain a revolving fund to cover
about four months of project related expenditures. which in auareaate should be
eauivalent to the authorized allocation for the special account (oara, 4.02
J{d). After expenditures are made by the executing agency, it would forward a
disbursement application to the PCU which, in turn, would process disbursement
from the Bank loan through BCCR.
Accountino and Audits
3.08      The executing agencies (SEPSA, MAG, IDA, MOPT) would keep separate
accounts to record their expenditures. The PCU would maintain separate project
accounts, and records for each project component, and consolidate them into the
project accounts and separate SOEs. Supporting documentation would be
maintained by the PCU and made available to Bank missions and independent
auditors as required.
3.09      Each of the participating agencies would be audited in respect to the
project. Project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, would be
audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by
external independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference
approved by the Bank. Cost of the annual audits (estimated at US$45,000
equivalent through the life of the project) would be eligible for financing
under the loan. Audit reports would be furnished to the Bank within five
months after close of the Government's fiscal year. Terms of reference for the
annual audit reports were agreed during negotiations (para. 4.01 (r)).
Reporting
3.10      The implementing agencies would be responsible for preparing progress
and completion reports on their respective components. The PCU would be
responsible, with the assistance of the implementing agencies, for physical and
financial monitoring of project activities; and would coordinate preparation of
all reports and consolidate the same for submission to the Bank. Assurances
were given by the Government that annual proaress renorts will be sent to the
Bank no later than two months after the end of each year. (para. 4.01 (s)).
Proiect Benefits
3.11      By addressing sector specific issues and overriding institutional
weaknesses, the project would contribute to enhancing Costa Rica's comparative
advantage as an agricultural producer. Direct benefits of the project would
include: (a) an increase in the quality and cost-effectiveness of public
agricultural services; (b) the strengthening of sector planning and monitoring
of sector development; (c) improvements in sustainable land resource use
through the development of a technical foundation for an environmentally sound
soil management strategy; and (d) an increase in small farmer well-being by
regularizing land ownership rights and providing access to minimum rural
infrastructure.



- 40 -
3.12      Due to the difficulty of preparing quantitative estimates related to
public sector institutional reforms and regularization of smallholders' land
ownership rights, no economic rate of return could be calculated for the
institutional development, land titling, and research and extension components
of the project. However, the project would bring direct benefits in terms of
improved access to agricultural services and productivity, while generating
public sector net savings estimated at about US$42 million equivalent over a
seven year period. In addition, the privatization of the Government's food
retail operation and grain processing and storage facilities would reduce CNP's
operational budget by about US$32 million annually (or approximately 23% of its
1991 budget), and a reduction significantly greater than the value of MAG's
recurrent budget.
3.13      The proposed project would directly serve a total of approximately
50,000 farm families which would be able to improve utilization of available
resources to be brought about under the project. Direct project benefits would
be derived from increase in quality, quantity and diversity of agricultural
products, specially for the small and small-medium farmer.  The new
institutional  framework and technology transfer methodology would result in
productiona     rasewr  andimated  to  range from 5e for rice, and 12e for maize,
to 40% for beans and cocoa. The project's emphasis on agricultural
diversification would also increase production and improve productivity of non-
traditional export crops, such as macadamia (with an expected 30% increase in
productivity at the small farm level), roots and tubers (70%), ornamental
plants (10%), and palm hearts (13%). As a result of the project, net farm
income for the small and small-medium farmer is expected to increase from the
current level of less than US$100 per ha to values ranging from the equivalent
of US$150 to US$250 per ha, depending on soil and growing conditions and stage
of technology adoption.
3.14      Under the Settlement Consolidation component, rural road works, to be
carried out under the project for an estimated cost of about US$9.2 million,
are justified with an estimated rate of return ranging between 13% and 50%.
3nvironmental Impact
3.15      A major goal of the project is to support the development of
sustainable agricultural growth in Costa Rica. For this purpose, the project
would assist in the institutional reorganization and strengthening of IDA in
order to effectively control both the acquisition and use of agricultural
lands. The project would develop a technically sound methodology for land use
classification. During project preparation the establishment of an
interdisciplinary team responsible for designing the land use classification
program proposal, helped to create a consensus across both government and the
private sector towards improved land use planning. Environmental stability and
the prevention of misuse of fragile lands would be achieved through the
development and implementation of policies restricting the construction of
infrastructure proximate to National Parks and biological reserves; the
demarcation of these areas; and the formulation of plans which would limit the
use of lands in accordance to their capability. The provision for land titling
would regularize land ownership rights of small settlers that based on
empirical evidence in Costa Rica would reduce the potential for unsustainable
land use.



- 41 -
3.16      Agricultural research and extension objectives would also be governed
by the need for appropriate land use technologies (which would ensure soil
conservation), accompanied by improve systems of biological peast control,
ensuring safe use of pesticides and emphasizing the biodegradable ones.
RLske
3.17      The most lmportant rLsks lie on the extent of instLtutional change
envisioned, the multipliclty of public sector Lnstitutions, and the complexity
of the decision-making process in Costa Rica which may constrain timely
implementation of pollcy reforms. This risk would be mitigated by supportLng
institutional development of sector institutions and ensuring that
implementatLon of the respective project components ls responsLbility of the
line MinLitries or government agencies. Partlcular emphasis would be glven to
CAN and SEPSA in terms of onabling these entitles to carry their legal mandate
by improvlng thelr adminLitratLve framework, and strengthening their technical
skills and capacity to implement and monltor a rigorous sector planning and
budgetlng process. Technical assistance under the project would minimize risks
durlng implementatlon by providlng back-stopplng to SEPSA ln project executlon
and by training staff in specific subject matters. Prlor to Board
presentatlon, major agreed lnstitutional changes and policy actions have been
implemented by the Government, thus ensuring an adequate institutlonal
framework for project start-up. Budgetary risks, which may lead to slower than
planned project implementation, would be addressed by the Government through
public sector savings agreed under the project and the reallocation of
resources wlthln the sector.
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECgOMMNDATONS
A. Aareements Reached at Negotiations
4.01      Followlng, there is a list of actions taken by the Government prior
to Board presentation, and assurances provided by the Government at
negotlatlons:
a.   Decrees have been Lssued establishing both the authority and the
responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, CAN, and SEPSA over
the sector's budget and the investment plan review process, and
strengthening SEPSA's technical capacity for sector analysis and
planning includlng lts new structure (para. 2.11). Bank remedies are
provided if: (a) the Minister of Agriculture, in its capacity as
head of CAN, shall have ceased to have authority to decide on the
Borrower's budget proposal and investment plan for the agricultural
sector as a whole; and (b) the adminietrative structure of planning
functions of SEPSA have been modified in a manner that shall
adversely affect the execution of the project;
b.   the Government has set up an Interinstitutional Commlssion on
Agricultural Information and Statistics headed by SEPSA to coordinate
the computerized Agrlcultural Information Network (para. 2.11);



- 42 -
C.   IDA's and NAG's reorganization plan specifying the delegation of
functions, decentralization of facilities and services, and
transferring of personnel to regional offices would be implemented in
accordance with targets established in MAG's decentralization plan
and IDA'" Statement of Policy as referred to in the Loan Agreement
(paras. 2.12, 2.38, 2.40, and 2.59);
d.   a Decree has been issued establishing that the Government will no
later than June 30, 1992s (i) eliminate any quota restrictions for
imports and exports of basic grains and beans and shall establish a
tariff system (with a maximum rate of 20%) for the importation of
such commodities; and (ii) not intervene or fix prices of basic
grain. and beans. In addition the Board of Directors of CNP has
approved a resolution establishing that CNP wills (i) not undertake
food retail activities or create any new wholesale store or food
storage facilities in addition to the seven wholesale stores and one
storage facility, or reopen any grain processing or storage
facilities in addition to its three storage and processing
facilities; (ii) limit annual purchases of maize and beans to the
amounts agreed during negotiations and specified in the Loan
Agreement; (iii) cause the wholesale prices of basic grains and beans
sold by CNP, to reflect the full cost of storage and handling; and
(iv) maintain regional price differentials in the farmgate and
wholesale prices of basic grains and beans sold by CNP (para. 2.15).
The Government has committed to maintain these conditions. The
Government will also complete a study--no later than nine months
after Loan Effectiveness--evaluating CNP's effectiveness recommending
measures consistent with CNP's future role to be defined together
with an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation
of such measures (para. 2.16);
s.   IDA would implement its part of the project in accordance with its
Statement of Policies which: (i) defines acceptable minimum basic
infrastructure needs for IDA settlements; (ii) limits the time (3-5
years) for IDA's direct involvement with land settlements;
(iii) adopts a policy by which no settlement will be created nor
infrastructure constructed within 10 Km of any reserve area;
(iv) establishes management guidelines for land contiguous to
national parks and biological reserves; and (v) reframes IDA's rules
for beneficiary selection. Also, IDA has gazetted the terms and
circumstances under which titles are transferrable within 15 years
from the date of acquisition.  In addition, the Government would
cause IDA, until all IDA's land earmarked for settlements are settled
and titled, to limit: (i) its expenditures in respect of annual
acquisition of lands for settlement purposes to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US5 3.0 million; and (ii) such acquisition of lands to
those lands which meet the socio-economic criteria set forth in IDA's
Statement of Policies, and the agreed Environmental Impact Assessment
Guidelines (paras. 2.19-2.20);
f.   as established in the corresponding resolutions of their Board of
Directors, IDA and CNP have ceased to perform public research and
extension activities. Consequently, MAG will be the only sector
institution responsible for public research and extension,
eliminating duplication of functions within sector agencies. Prior
to Board Presentation extension staff from CNP and IDA was



- 43 -
g.   the Government issued a Decree repealing existing limitations on
agronomists' professional activities and linking, in a compulsory
manner, credit to technical assistance. As established in the legal
documents, this Decree will not Le amended, abrogated or repealed if
such actions would materially and advereely affect project execution
(para. 2.64);
h.   the Government will cause to carry out all environmental assessment
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank (as established in IDA's Policy
Statement and referred to in the Loan Agreement), in the settlement
consolidation process (para. 2.75);
i.  as part of the annual implementation program for the settlement
consolidation component, MOPT will be required to sign infrastructure
maintenance agreements with IDA communities, prepared by the
Government, in terms satisfactory to the Bank (format and content
agreed during negotiations), in order to ensure adequate periodic
maintenance of investments financed under the project (para. 2.82);
j.   cost recovery by HAG and IDA would be carried out in accordance with
the targets established in the respective Actions Plans (included in
IDA's Policy Statement and HAG's Decentralization Plan--Tables 4 to
12) (paras. 2.26 and 2.83). For CNP, the terms under which the
agreed cost recovery plan will be carried out as specified in para.
4.01 (d) above (para. 2.25);
k.   the regional offices of IDA, would be remodelled in accordance with
construction guidelines acceptable to the Bank. In addition, MOPT
will implement the construction of communal buildings, water supply
installations, classrooms and teacher houses in accordance with
construction guidelines acceptable to the Bank (paras. 2.86 and
2.89);
1.   as established in the Loan Agreement, MOPT would submit to the Bank,
no later than June 30 of each year of project implementation, an
implementation program for the subsequent year, with the
corresponding environmental assessment on construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads (para. 2.89);
a.   IDA will carry out a study on the demarcation and development of
indigenous reserves, included as a dated covenant in the Loan
Agreement, to be submitted for Bank review and approval and put into
effect the recommendations of such study within the first year of
project implementation (para. 2.90)s
n.   the Ministers of Agriculture and of Natural Resources, Energy and
Mines have signed a Statement of Policy spelling out the Government's
policy regarding occupants of national parks and reserve areas, other
than indigenous reserves (para. 2.91);
o.   as established in the Loan Agreement as dated covenants, the
Government will present to the Bank for approval annual operational
plans (para. 2.94);
p.   project targets and follow-up actions, to be discussed and agreed
during an annual and a mid-term review, will be defined in accordance
Fn fFV  orn4 -F P rfn.-  nr.      4-'F' wh;r-h TPenn1iiientl To4-W



- 44 -
implementation is not satisfactory, the Government shall implement
remedial actions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.95);
q.   the Government, through the ordinary budget, will make available to
the executing agencies the necessary counterpart funds
--including operation and maintenance funds--in order to allow
project execution in accordance with the agreed implementation
schedule (para. 2.98);
r.   audit reports, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
would be furnished to the Bank within six months after close of the
Government's fiscal years (para. 3.09); and
s.   annual progress reports will be sent to the Bank no later than two
months after the end of each year (para. 3.10).
B. Effectiveness Conditions
4.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the Loan:
a.   establishment of the PCU and PSC (paras. 2.92 and 2.93);
b.   appointment by each executing agency of a project coordinator (para.
2.94)1
C.   signing of satisfactory contractual arrangement between MAG and IDA
(para. 2.98);
d.   establishment by each executing agency of a project account including
an initial deposit to cover about four months of project related
expenditures (para. 3.07); and
*.   The Government shall have:  (i) eliminated all quota restrictions to
imports and exports of basic grains and beans; (ii) established,
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, tariffs on the importation of
basic grains and beans, such tariffs to be: (1) analogous to those
applied to industrial products; (2) subject to a maximum rate of 20%;
and (3) applied to the CIF normal price (as defined in Annex B of the
"Convenio sobre el Regimen Arancelario y Aduanero Centraomericano")
of the referred imports; and (iii) eliminated all price controls on
basic grains and beans (para. 2.15).
C. Disbursement Conditions
4.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement of the respective
project components:
a.   in respect of goods and services for the implementation of the
Computerized Agricultural Information Network, development of an
operational plan (Master Plan), satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.36 (d));
b.   in respect of services for the implementation of the TA voucher
program effectiveness of the agreement between HAG and BNCR (para.
2.65);



- 45 -
c.   in respect of vehicles, evidence that MAG and IDA have sold or
otherwise disposed of at least 240 existing non-operational or high
maintenance cost vehicles identified at appraisal (para. 2.68);
d.   in respect to services for the third phase of the land titling
program, unlesss (i) the boundaries of those settlements have been
demarcated; (ii) land use plans and technical and economic
justification for the rehabilitation and construction of rural
infrastructure for such settlements, satisfactory to the Bank, have
been presented to the Bank; and (iii) 4n assessment, satisfactory to
the Bank, of the environmental impact of the consolidation process of
such settlements has been furnished to the Bank (para. 2.75). In
respect of rural road expenditures related to the above phase, an
economic evaluation, engineering standards and environmental
assessment related to such works have been presented to the Bank
(para. 2.81); and
*.   in respect of training expenditures consisting of postgraduate
studies, that the Bank has approved the respective proposal (para.
2.57 (b)).
4.04      Subject to the above conditions the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$41 million equivalent to the Republic of Costa
Rica, to be repaid over a period of 17 years, including five years of grace.



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Use
1.          Coffee has been the most important crop in Costa Rica covering 22?
of the cultivated land. This crop represents approximately 28? of the value
of agricultural production and 38Z of annual export earnings. There are about
40,000 coffee farmers with an average farm size reaching only 2.5 ha.
Approximately 642 of the domestic production is grown on farms of less than
50 ha and 79Z of the farms cover less than 10 ha. The increasing cost of land
and labor has induced the adoption of high-yielding new coffee varieties.
While production increased by 190? between 1960 and 1988, the area under
cultivation expanded 561. Currently, it is estimated that virtually all
suitable land for coffee production is in use.
2.          Bananas represent 24? of agricultural GDP, and are the second most
important crop in Costa Rica covering 8? of cultivated land. In 1990, they
were the most important export earner. Almost all bananas are grown by large
enterprises (85X of the farms are above 100 ha) located in the Atlantic
Region. Approximately 45? of all banana plantations are domestically owned,
although marketing of the final product is mainly managed by multinational
corporations. Bananas are generally planted on the best soils following
guidelines for land selection based on land suitability criteria, e.g., soil
fertility, drainage, slope, texture, depth, stoniness, etc., promoted by
CORBANA and the National Banking System. Under this program lands are
identified for banana production. The high rate of production therefore
reflects the careful selection of the best lands for banana cultivation.
3.          Rice, sugarcane, and cocoa constitute the other three major crops
accounting for 21?, 11Z and 5? of the cultivated land, and 4.7?, 4.3? and 0.4Z
of agricultural GDP, respectively. Rice, being the most important staple in
Costa Rica, is grown partly under irrigation, with medium and large farms of
more than 50 ha accounting for 85? of paddy rice production. The importance
of sugarcane as an export crop has declined, and national consumption now
absorbs 70Z of production. The majority of sugarcane is grown in large agro-
industrial estates. Production on farms with less than 100 ha is estimated at
about 35? of total output. With respect to cocoa, production has decreased
sharply from 10,000 tons in 1979 to an estimaLed 4,400 tons in 1988 due to
aging plantations and phytosanitary problems. The Northern Atlantic region is
the most important production area with medium and large farms equally
represented (59Z less than 100 ha and 41? over 100 ha).
4.          Beef production in Costa Rica has always been one of the major
agricultural activities, although its contribution to agricultural GDP, during
the 1980s, has fallen from 10? to 6? (and from 9? to 6.22 with respect to
exports). However, beef production has a significant impact on land use,
considering that 482 of the national territory is currently allocated to
cattle raising. Pastures have increased from 0.8 million ha in 1950 to an
estimated 2.4 million ha in 1988, while the national herd reached 2.2 million



- 47 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
head in 1984 from 0.7 million in 1955. There are about 52,000 cattle farms,
out of which 34,500 have livestock production as the major activity. Large
farms with more than 100 head of cattle represent 112 in number, but contain
more than 65Z of the national herd. The problem of extensive beef production
is related to the present land tenure problen (where 5.02 of the farmers
account for 472 of the land) and to the current incentive structure which does
not stimulate a more intensive use of the land. The expansion of the area
under pasture has been to the detriment of the area devoted to crops; by 1984
this figure has declined to 20Z with expanded pasture area accounting for the
difference. Notwithstanding this decline, the 20Z of agricultural land under
crops contributes more than 73Z of the sector's total gross value of
production. Over 60% of land utilized for livestock production is located in
lands of greater than 302 slopes which are better suited for forestry
activities. This inappropriate land use has led to increased erosion and
reduced carrying capacity, and creates an unsustainable system at very high
economic cost to the country.
5.           Non-traditional export crops occupy about 62 of the cultivated
area (30,000 ha) and represent 232 of exports compared to 62.7Z for
traditional agricultural products and 21.42 for industrial products. The
potential for future expansion of production of these crops is closely linked
to world market developments and is not expected to have a big impact on the
present pattern of agricultural land use. Development of non-traditional
export crops is demand-led and managed by private companies which are already
providing the varieties, the market and, in most cases, the technical
assistance. Assuming the Government continues to improve the sector's policy
framework and incentive structure, future production of these crops will
expand on the strength of private initiative.
Table 1. Agricultural Land Distribution In Costa Ries
X Change Between
1 9 63                1 9   4a/            1968-1984
Size Class      Number       Area      Number       Area       Number    Area
(ha)                      (ha)                    (ha)
0. - 3.9          21,089        42,093    40,746       67,188      93.2     86.7
(82.6)        (1.6)    (42.2)        (1.9)
4.0 - 9.9         12,949        86,115    17,082      108,179      31.9     26.6
(20.0)        (3.2)    (17.7)        (3. 6)
10.0 - 49.9       20,808       489,000    28,197      584,987      27.1     19.6
(31.9)       (18.3)    (27.1)       (19.1)
50.0 - 199.9       7,991       690,197     9,685      876,012      21.2     26.9
(12.4)       (2_.9)    t10.0)       (28.6)
200 +              1,988     1,356,671     2,833    1,446,024      42.6      6.0
(3.0)       (50.8)     (2.9)   _   _
Totals          64,221     2,868,077    98,642    3,070,339     49.4      16.1
Note:  The Size Classes correspond to the Census Classification: "Microstates"--less than 4.00
ha; lFamily Holdings"--4.0-9.9 ha; *Medium"--10.0-49.9 ha; *Largew--60.0-199.9 ha; and
'Very Large.--200+ ha.
Percentages In brackets.
Pi     1984 Agricultural Census represents the latest official source for this data.
Source: Agricultural Census, 1983 and 1984.



48 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Title to Land
6.          The consolidation of holdings and the continued skewed
distribution are facilitated by the legal-institutional framework prevailing
in Costa Rica. There are two main types of title which the law recognizes:
individual and state. Individual title is acquired through inheritance,
exchange, transfer and, most importantly, through "possession". The
legislation which permits acquisition of title through possession is the Ley
de Informaci6n Posesorias, 1941, under which a squatter on any land (whether
titled to the State or an individual) is entitled, after a period of 10 years
undisturbed and open occupation, to claim title to the land. The law provides
that the squatter can claim up to 100 ha if the land is occupied for
agricultural purposes, and up to 300 ha for livestock. Possession is proved
through land clearing. In effect, the law facilitates and requires the
uncontrolled clearing of lands for the purpose of claiming individual title.
7.          State lands are in the nature of a residual category and include
lands to which the state has registered title (for example, through
acquisition or purchase) and other lands which are not titled to individuals
(including legal persons) and which are categorized as "national reserves"
(Reserva Nacional). This latter category comprises 2.52 million ha
(approximately 49.32 of the total area of the country) where there is no data
indicating what portions have been squatted on. National reserves include
areas which have been designated, but usually not demarcated on the ground or
registered, as forest and biological reserves, national parks and indigenous
reserves. There are 34 national parks and biological reserves which, in
theory, cover an area of 573,000 ha (approximately 11.232 of the total area of
the country). There are 22 indigenous reserves for 8 recognized ethnic groups
covering a total area of approximately 322,000 ha. At present, indigenous
reserves are governed by Ley Indigena de Costa Rica (No. 6172 of 1977) which
also consolidated and amended previous declarations, executive decrees and
conventions. In the case of both national parks and biological reserves, and
in indigenous reserves, the process of occupation by outsiders (and non-
indigenous) had already commenced before designation as parks and reserves and
has continued even thereafter. Thus, an estimated 40? of indigenous reserves
are now occupied by non-indigenous settlers. Similar intrusions have also
taken place in national parks and biological reserves and although there are
no reliable data regarding the total extent of these encroachments, it is
estimated that about 55,168 ha of land within these are illegally occupied
under present and proposed projects of IDA.



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Institutions and Services
Agricultural Institutions
1.          Conselo Agropecuario Nacional (CAN).  The forum where sectoral
policies and program coordination are discussed is :he dational Agricultural
Sector Council (CAN), headed by the Minister of Agriculture, and composed of
the Ministers of Natural Resources, Energy and Mines (MIRENEM), and Public
Works and Transport (MOPT); the General Manager of the National Bank of Costa
Rica; and the Executive Presidents of CNP and IDA. As defined by the "Ley de
Fomento a la Producci6n Agropecuaria" (Ley FODEA/1987) the CAN is an advisory
body to the Minister of Agriculture. It is responsible for analyzing problems
and proposing sectoral policy, and for coordinating the plans, programs and
projects of the institutions within the sector.
2.          In his role as President of CAN, the Minister of Agriculture is
responsible for overall sector planning and coordination of agriculture
agencies. The authority of the Minister and the CAN to implement those
policies, however, is limited by the legal/administrative framework of semi-
autonomous sector institutions such as CNP and IDA. These institutions are
not required to receive approval for their plans and budgets from the Minister
of Agriculture.
3.          Secretaria Eiecutiva de Planificacion del Sector Asropecuario
(SEPSA). SEPSA, the secretariat for sector planning, is a relatively small
institution of 34 professionals that serves as technical support to the
Minister of Agriculture and the CAN. SEPSA is responsible for:
(a) maintaining an information network of basic agricultural statistics;
(b) conducting basic socio-economic studies on the current status of the
sector and the impact of sector programs and projects as input to CAN's
policy-making process; (c) assisting in the process of sector planning,
according to the guidelines established by CAN; and (d) developing and
conducting special projects requiring a sector-wide focus. The i)irector of
SEPSA heads the Comite Tecnico del Sector Agropecuario (COTECSA), an inter-
institutional committee made up of the planning directors of agriculture
institutions. COTECSA meets monthly to address operational requirements for
sector coordination and planning, as well as to follow up on specific
initiatives of the Minister or CAN.
4.          SEPSA is also responsible for assisting and facilitating the work
of the Regional Sector Committees, which, as a version of the CAN, are
composed of the regional heads of sector institutions. These committees are
responsible for creating integrated regional responses to agriculture-related
needs. SEPSA furthermore contributes to the inter-institutional effort of the
Programas Nacionales Sectoriales, by providing staff support to those groups.



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
5.          In an effort to coordinate production related activities carried
out by both the public and private sectors, the Government has created
commodity programs--Programas Nacionales Sectoriales (PNS)--for 21 priority
agricultural products. These programs bring together public and private
sector units working with a given commodity under the leadership of either a
producers' association, or, in the absence of an association for a given
commodity, the department of MAG, IDA or CNP most responsible for it. The
purpose of the PNS is to provide an opportunity for coordinated planning in
such areas as: development and dissemination of technological packages,
identification and development of market opportunities, and the articulation
of yearly and regional targets for production and sales.
6.          PNS have already had the positive impact, since their inception in
1988, of promoting a much-needed dialogue between Government and private
organizations involved in agricultural production and marketing activities.
The entity that oversees the PNS is the National Commission for Agricultural
Research and Technology Transfer (CONITTA). Established in Costa Rica in
March, 1989, CONITTA brings together sector institutions involved in research
and technology transfer. CONITTA is also an advisory body to the Minister for
policy, interinstitutional coordination and planning of research and extension
activities.
7.          Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia (MAG).  The Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) is the leading agricultural public sector
institution in Costa Rica, with the primary responsibility for research and
extension, and regulatory aspects in the areas of plant pathology and animal
health. MAG employs approximately 1,400 staff, with administrative personnel
accounting for 39? of the total. The Ministry has 165 professional staff and
middle level technicians in research, and 660 in extension, with 382 of the
research personnel located in regional offices, and 622 in San Jose. The
extension staff is mainly assigned (86Z) to the regional offices of MAG.
Under the present structure, slightly less than 90? of MAG's annual budget
(US$15.54 million equivalent) is assigned for salaries.
8.          The Ministry is structured into three major directoratest the
Superior Directorate for National Operations, the Superior Directorate for
Regional Operations, and the General Directorate for Administration. The
Superior Directorate for National Operations is responsible for conducting
research and regulatory functions and for providing specialized assistance to
eight regional offices.  MAG's technical assistance activities in agriculture
are executed by three directorates within the Superior Directorate for
National Operations: Research and Extension, Animal Health and Production, and
Plant Health; receiving support from six laboratories, three experiment
stations and an artificial insemination station. The Ministry's agricultural
extension services cover the country through its eight regional offices, each
with a regional director reporting to the Director of Operations in MAG
central office in San Jose.
9.          At present, real coverage per extension agent is low; only about
16,000 farmers, or less than 20? of the total number of small and medium sized
producers receiving some kind of extension services. The ratio of farmers to
extensionist is not higher than 35:1--when an acceptable ratio would be 200-
250:1. The main reasons for this low coverage are: (a) the multiplicity of
tasks that have to be performed by the extension agent in addition to those



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
specifically related to agricultural production (preparation of credit
applications, infrastructure development programming and social welfare);
(b) lack of an effective group approach to small farmers, technical
assistance; (c) the high number of individual farm visits averaging about
70/year/extensionist, and as low as 4/farmer/year; (d) low operating budgets
and vehicle maintenance problems; and (e) inadequate use of audiovisual
methods to transfer information to farmers.
10.         Consejo Nacional de la Produccion (CNP).  CNP--the largest
institution in the agricultural sector, in terms of expenditures--performs the
following functions: (a) controls to a large extent wheat and maize imports;
(b) stores grains and releases them during the year in order to even out
seasonal price variations; (c) buys grains from farmers and sells to consumers
at prices that do not always fully reflect regional transport costs in order
to reduce interregional price variations; and (d) sets minimum producer and
maximum consumer prices (according to the Ministry of Economy's guidelines)
through its trading operation. CNP, employs over 2,000 people in 6 divisions.
Its installations include 22 grain purchasing centers, 6 processing plants, 5
wholesale food regional stores and 156 food retail outlets.
11.         The Council operates five programs: (a) Agricultural Development,
which provides technical assistance to maize and beans small and medium-size
farmers; (b) Marketing, which collects and purchases locally produced maize
and beans as well as importing and exporting grains; (c) Processing and
Storage of basic grains; (d) Price Stabilization, which operates the wholesale
and retail outlets providing a large array of goods of which less than 10%
are basic grains; and (e) Management and Administration. CNP's total budget
in 1990 amounted to the equivalent of approximately US$200 million. Despite
its negligible impact on consumer and producer welfare, the weight of the
pr!.ce stabilization program, both in terms of budget (33.32 of the total) and
staff (372 of the total), is striking, as is the disproportionate amount of
personnel involved in administration (39.8Z). The marketing program is the
most important one accounting for 512 of the council's total expenditures.
12.         When CNP was established in the 1940s, as an official public
institution with a broad mandate for agricultural development but mainly
focused on price stabilization functions for basic foodgrains, price
stabilization policies for basic foodgrains were important for consumers and
producers. Because of low per capita incomes, foodgrains figured prominently
in the diet of the average Costa Rican population. Moreover, poor
infrastructure throughout much of the country, together with limited
opportunities for importing food, strengthen the role of CNP. Since then, the
Costa Rican economy has grown and conditions have changed significantly
reducing the value--and need--for government intervention to stabilize
foodgrain prices. Currently, consumers allocate less than 30Z of their food
budget to foodgrains and inter-year stabilization of maize and bean prices has
negligible effect on the stability of the cost of the diet for most
households. Similarly, because of crop diversification, very few farmers
benefit from stabilization of basic grain prices.
13.         Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario (IDA).  IDA's predecessor, the
Instituto de Tierras y Colonizaci6n (ITCO) was established in 1961 as a
parastatal organization to promote the equitable distribution of land. ITCO
was transformed into the Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario--so called to



- 52 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
emphasize its development objectives--in 1982. IDA's statutes provide the
framework under which lands are acquired for settlements of smallholders,
basic infrastructure (roads, water, electricity, and social facilities)
provided, and holdings legalized by the granting of titles.
14.         IDA divides its activities into three major categories:
(a) Stabilization of Agrarian Lands which encompasses the formation of
settlements through land acquisition and adjudication, legalizing land
occupation (i.e. by squatters) and land titling; (b) Consolidation of
Settlements including individual and group training to raise beneficiaries to
at least minimum conditions to participate in the economic and social life of
the region; and the provision of the minimum infrastructure to permit
development of the settlement and enable settlers to further access services
regularly available to the population at large; and (c) Administration,
including the development of special programs to build in consideration of the
prudent use of natural resources in development plans both for the settlement
area and the region.
15.         IDA is run by an Executive President appointed by the Board of
Directors. While the Planning Division and Legal Department report directly
to the President, operations are controlled by a General Manager who oversees
the Administrative, Operations and Regional Divisions. The Planning Director
is responsible for supervision of special projects (e.g., under bilateral or
multilateral aid), agricultural credit, and planning, supervision and
evaluation of projects. The General Regional Division itself is divided into
six regional offices in each administrative region of the country (Central,
Brunca, Chorotega, Huetar Atlantica, Huetar Norte, Pacifico Central).
16.         The institute has about 900 employees, including 141 connected
with external supported projects. Staff are classified under three
categories: professional (13? of the roster), technical/professional (34?),
and administrative (53Z). An indication of existing imbalances in resource
allocation is that about 60? of staff and vehicles are based at headquarters
in San Jose. In 1990 the regions had 164 professional/technical staff--18 of
the total--to develop and manage approximately 530 settlements. Between 1987
and 1988 there has been a substantial increase in the number of administrative
staff from 182 to 277.
17.         IDA's budget, which for 1990 amounted to approximately US$20.0
million equivalent, comes from two main sources: tax receipts--in the order of
40Z--and capital transfers, about 50?. Of the funds acquired through taxes,
IDA receives 1.18? (out of a total of 2.5?) of the sales tax, approximately
1.752 of the tax on cigarettes, and 5.8? of the tax levied on carbonated and
alcoholic beverages respectively. In 1990, salaries amounted to 41.4?, while
investments to 16.3? of total expenditures. The budget for headquarters
accounted for 22.1? and that for the regional administration about 13? of the
total. Also headquarters controlled the budget for the agricultural
development of the North (0.9Z), special projects funded by external donor
assistance (39.6Z), and agricultural investment (24.4?).
18.         IDA presently has 546 settlements under its management, containing
about 36,000 parcels and covering an area of approximately 640,000 ha. Since
the creation of ITCO (IDA's predecessor) in 1961, approximately 12,500 land
titles have been issued and received by the beneficiaries.



53  -                         Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
18.         IDA presently has 546 settlements under its management, containing
about 36,000 parcels and covering an area of approximately 640,000 ha. Since
the creation of ITCO (IDA's predecessor) in 1961, approximately 12,500 land
titles have been issued and received by the beneficiaries.
agriculturSl Services
19.         AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION.  In addition to MAG's agricultural
extension activities, other public and semi-autonomous institutions providing
this service, include:
20.         National Production Council ECNP2.  Although largely a state-owned
marketing agency, CNP provides also technical assistance to maize and bean
producers. There are about 50 extensionists engaged in technical assistance
within CNP, and although there is little duplication of efforts with HAG,
under institutional specificity supported by the project, it would seem more
cost effective and efficient to consolidate under the proposed project the
extension program within MAG's technical assistance mainly targeted to small
farmers.
21.          Aararian Development Institt ;e (IDA).  IDA's extensionists give
technical assistance to small farmers in land settlement projects. The
institution currently has about 50 to 60 extension agents assisting farmers in
an array of subjects which not only include agricultural production but also
credit, housing and rural infrastructure. With an extensionist to farmer
ratio of 54tl, only about 20% of IDA's settlers receive technical assistance
from the Institute.
22.         National Banana Association (ASBANA).  ASBANA, a parastatal
commodity association coordinating research and development efforts of banana
growers, is funded through a US$0.05 per box levy applied to banana exports.
About one-third of the revenues are earmarked for research and extension. In
addition, ASBANA's laboratories provide services in soil, nematode and plant
analysis to growers, and national and international banana companies on a
cost-reimbursable basis. Research is carried out in two experimental stations
and four laboratories, with a technical staff of 13 professionals, 3 middle-
level technicians and 26 support staff. Twenty five percent of these staff
carries out research works on non-traditional exports such as palm hearts
(palmito), coconuts, soursop (guanabana) and shrimp culture.
23.         Agricultural and Industrial Sugarcane Leaaue (LAICAI.  LAICA is a
private sugar producers organization financed by a levy on sugar exports. The
1989 budget allocation for research and extension was about US$475,000
equivalent (US$136 per producer). Although most of Costa Rica's sugar cane is
produced on large landholdings belonging to the 21 sugar mills, the number of
outgrowers is important. LAICA provides technical assistance to about 3,500
growers in all with a farmer to extensionist ratio of 440:1. The Ministry of
Agriculture supports LAICA's research and extension team--of 10 professionals
and 4 field assistants--with two professionals. The league's technical
assistance functions are complemented by approximately 40 agronomists of the
sugar mills (to whom LAICA extensionists act as subject matter specialists)
who assist local sugar chambers on part time basis.



54   -                     Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
24.         Costa Rica Coffee Institute (ICAFEL.  ICAFE is the government
parastatal institution in charge of regulating all aspects relating to the
delivery, processing, marketing and exports of coffee. ICAFE activities,
including research and extension, are funded by a 1% tax on coffee exports.
The institution has a team of 24 extensionists, 13 of whom are seconded from
MAG. Research and extension efforts have helped the Costa Rican coffee sector
to develop a reputation as the most dynamic and high yielding in the world.
25.         National Seeds Office (ONSb.  This autonomous organization was
founded in 1977 as a dependency of MAG, mainly responsible for seed
certification. Thg work program covers rice, sorghum, coffee, beans, cotton,
cocoa, maize, potatoes and pasture seeds. About 70% of the time of ONS field
personnel (9 staff) is assigned to technical assistance, which also embraces
seed field inspections. The ONS is self-financed based on a levy per bag of
seed certified.
26.         Private Agriculture and Aaro-Industrv Council ECAAP).  This
private organization partly founded by USAID, provides technical assistance to
selected growers and cooperatives. It has about 15 field personnel engaged in
extension activities in agricultural production and marketing.
27.         AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH.  There is a considerable, but very
fragmented, research capacity (17 public, parastatal, international and
private organizations) for the size of Costa Rica's agricultural sector. In
recent years the Government and the organizations which make up the
agricultural sector have carried out a series of initiatives to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of agricultural research and technology transfer.
The most notable changes in this area have been the creation of a coordinating
and advisory body--the National Commission of Research and Transfer of
Agricultural Technology (CONITTA)--and the reorientation from a disciplinary
approach to a commodity focus, implemented through National Commodity
Programs.
28.         The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) staff assigned to research
activities represents 52% of the total professional research personnel in
Costa Rica (public, parastatal, and private). At present, the ratio of MAG
staff cost to operating funds is about 5.2:1, well above the 2:1 ratio
considered optimal. Administrative procedures are cumbersome and
disbursements irregular, eroding the quantity and quality of the research
service. Although the Government has started a process of decentralization,
research personnel (59%) are still heavily concentrated in San Jose.
29.         Federal parastatals, universities and a few private organizations,
account for the other 48% of research personnel working in commodities and
national research programs. They conduct a mix of basic and applied research,
with the academic centers mainly concentrated on the former.
30.         Costa Rica receives considerable support from international
research centers such as CIAT (beans, manioc, and pastures), CIMMYT (maize),
and CIP (potatoes). CATIE (the Central American Tropical Agricultural
Research Center, with headquarters in Costa Rica) contributes under three
principal programs: (a) tropical crop breeding; (b) sustainable agricultural
systems; and (c) integrated natural resource management.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
and two marketing programs (PIMA and CENADA) assisting small producers of
perishable products for the domestic market.
32.         In the area of non-traditional exports, the Consejo Agropecuario
Agroindustrial Privado (CAAP)--an independent USAID sponsored agro-industrial
council--has registered some success in identifying new markets and developing
appropriate technology. However, its successes have been limited to larger
producers and commercial enterprises. To date, small farmer participation in
the non-traditional export drive has almost exclusively been limited to
contract farming of pineapples and tubers for large enterprises which take
charge of marketing. There is an important growing market in the US and
Europe for Costa Rica's agricultural non-traditional exports. Exports are
projected to grow over the next five years, with Europe's market expected to
increase beyond the present 11? share.



-  56  -                        Annex 3
Page I of 18
CLTA RIMa
AGR!cULTURJAL SCTOR INVMSTMENT AND INSTITUTZQNAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Developemnt
I. Puros and A2proach
1.          The purpose of the institutional development component of the
project is to achieve the reorientation, and, within that context, improved
performance, of agriculture sector public organizations. The following
sectionst (a) clarify the objectives, approach and inputs of the component;
and (b) detail project support for three of the four objectives. Information
regarding the fourth objective (development of a land use classification and
soil erosion control program) is presented in Annex 5, and greater detail
regarding development of an agricultural sector information network is
presented in Annex 4. A review of the institutional constraints affecting the
sector and project implementation is found in paras. 1.13-1.26 of the SAR.
2.          Obiectlv-s.  The four related objectives of the institutional
development component are:
a.    sector analysia, strengthening sector analysis and decision-making
capacity through development of an agricultural information
network and capacity for analysis of impact of macro-economic and
sector policies;
b.    Sector olannina and financial manaaement, achieving greater
linkage of organizational plans with sector policy directives,
consistency of budgets and expenditures with plans,
decentralization of budgetary and expenditure controls, and
management of budgets and expenditures by program areas;
c.    Efficient and effective sector intitutlions, improving the pattern
of human and financial resource allocation and quality and cost
effectiveness of agricultural services of the Instituto de
Desarrollo Agrario (IDA) and the Ministerio de Agricultura y
Ganaderia (MAG) through the delegation of technical and
administrative functions to regions and improved administrative
systems and procedures; and
d.    Develooina a common system for land use classification and soil
erosion control.
3.          Inputs.  Support for the achievement of the above objectives would
be provided through investment in technical assistance, training and
F       equipment.  These inputs would be targeted on:
a.    revising organizational and inter-organizational structures,
functions and procedures, including increasing levels of
decentralization, as appropriate;



-57  -
Page 2 of 18
b.    developing staff skillo in priority areas; and
C.    designing and implementing now technical support systems for
agricultural information, financial management and land use
classification.
4.          Agroach   The approach to technical assistance and training for
institutional development would include the following key elements:
a.    participatory methods would be used for the dignois, degin and
imelmmm,fntat-ion of improved systems and procedures, including the
conduct of both inter and intra-organizational action-planning
workshops. These workshops bring together key working level and
senior staff and expert consultants to address major areas of
sector improvement. Working groups would be used to follow up the
results of the workshops in order to further develop, refine and
implement the outlined plan. created;
b.    technical assistance would be conducted primarily in a
collaborative mode, developing internal capacity by assistina in
the work of agency staff, rather than replacina those staff by
directly carrying out their functions. In specific technical
areas, involvina one time only functions, consulting assistance
would not be directly tied to capacity building of sector staff
(e.g., systems programming for the sector information network or
for a computerized chart of accounts);
C.    action-training would be used to achieve specific skill
development in priority areas. In action-training, trainees learn
skills relevant to their immediate work needs by addressing real
work problems in training sessions; and
d.    v   design of the institutional development effort would be linked
to annual project planning workshops, in which issues are
discussed, priorities established, and integration achieved among
institutional development and other sector activities.
S.          Because of the intensity of the institutional development
activities supported by this project, frequent supervision by Bank staff,
including staff with skills and knowledge in institutional development, would
be essential.
I. Institutional Davelooment Coamonent
6.          As indicated above (para. 2), the institutional development
component is subdivided into four objectives. The first two objectives are
discussed in the first section below, the third objective is discussed in the
following section, and the fourth objective is discussed in Annex 5.
A. lector Analvsis. Planning and Financial Kanaaument
7.          The institutional constraints to agriculture sector growth include
the absence of effective policies (e.g., for land settlement and titling, and



- 58 -
Afnnex 3
Page 3 of 18
for grain market intervention) and the ineffective targeting of resources in
sector programs to redundant and/or inappropriately focused functions (e.g.,
multiple extension services). Therefore, it is critical that SEPSA develop
the capacity to conduct in-depth analysis of: (a) sector performance and the
impact of policy decieions on performance; (b) consistency of proposed sector
programs and budgets with sector policies and institutional specialization;
and (c) program achievements and expenditures. The need for this capability
is both immediate, to address the current challenges facing the sector, and
long term, to assist in the continuous process of policy and program
development.
8.          In order for SEPSA to assist the Minister and CAN in the areas
identified above, it wills
a.    restructure its units and expand staff, consistent with its newly
clarified functions and responsibilities;
b.    strengthen, through project financed technical assistance,
training and procurement of equipment, the following priority
functions:
i.    basic sector studies, including analysis of impact of
economic and sector policies;
ii.   planning and evaluation of sector programs and investment.l
iii. sector budgeting and financial management;
iv.   special sector programs;
v.    information collection and analysis; and
vi.   coordination of the sector modernization and reform program;
and
c.    establish and/or strengthen mechanisms for cooperation and
collaboration among SEPSA and other sector organizations
(information units within sector organizations and establishment
of an inter-institutional commission on agricultural information
were in place prior to Board presentation (para. 2.36 (d) of the
SAR).
9.          The clarification of SEPSA's mandate and function would be
achieved through a decree as a condition of Board presentation (para. 2.19 of
SAR). SEPSA's six major function are being defined as the following (paras.
11-14).
10.         Basic Sector Studies and Analysis.  One of SEPSA's key functions
is to analyze the current status and past and projected trends within the
agriculture sector to support the policy-making process. Specifically, this
function involves:
a.    developing and maintaining an accurate data base of statistics
1     n      n- v  - -+bh r43 fm' 4   -11-ilv i4 anl  e



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 18
b.    conducting basic studies and analysis of trends; and
c.    conducting special studies to assist in evaluating the impact of
current or proposed economic and sector policies.
11.         Sector Plannino.  SEPSA's role in the planning process is to
support effective translation of policies and priorities into sector plans.
SEPSA should function as a catalyst, a facilitator, and an evaluator of the
planning process and results. On the one hand it should translate CAN's
policy decisions into specific planning guidelines for operational units so as
to facilitate their planning, and, on the other hand, provide evaluations of
such proposed plans and the resulting programs to CAN. Specifically, this
function involves:
a.    disseminating policy guidelines issued by the Minister and CAN to
sector organizations through COTECSA and the regional sector
planning committees through the dissemination of the annual Marco
Orientador as well as other ad-hoc policy briefs;
b.    assisting the regional sector planning committees in the
development of their regional plans;
C.    analyzing sector organizational and regional plans (for both new
investment and operational costs) for their consistency with
sector policies and priorities, and reporting the results of this
analysis to CAN;
d.    evaluating the impact of sector programs and reporting the results
of the evaluation to CAN; and
=.    developisig an overall sector agriculture plan, containing a
summary analysis of current investments in the sector.
12.         Sector Budgeting and Financial Manaaement.  The budgeting and
financial management function parallels and must be integrated with SEPSA's
planning function. SEPSA is responsible for disseminating budgetary guidance,
within the Marco Orientador, and analyzing proposed budgets and actual
expenditures of sector organizations as input to CAN's review and decision-
making process. This function parallels that described in para. 11 and
involves:
a.    disseminating guidance on sector budgets based on the decisions of
CAN;
b.    analyzing organizational and regional budgets, including both
normal operational and investment budgets, for their consistency
with sector policies and priorities, and reporting the results of
this analysis to CAN;
c.    evaluating and reporting on actual program expenditures within the
eector; and
d.    providing guidance to sector organizations on the development of
organizational budget and accounting systems so that they are



- 60 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 18
consistent across the sector and meet sector planning
requirements.
13.         SoRcial Sector Pro2rams.  In those exceptional instances where
there are over-riding reasons that an individual line agency should not be
responsible for initiating, designing and implementing sector programs, such
responsibilities are assigned to SEPSA. Currently, that responsibility would
be limited to the Land Use Classification and Soil Erosion Control Program,
where only through coordination of multiple agencies, with different
interests, can an agreement be reached on a technically appropriate approach
to land classification. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that other needs
would arise in future for sector programs to be managed by SEPSA.
14.         Information Collection and Analysis.  This function within SEPSA
supports the implementation of the four functions described above (paras. 12-
15). Specifically, it involves:
a.    assisting other units within SEPSA to meet data collection,
storage and processing needs (including the use of statistical
packages and programs) through:
i.   the development of a sector information network that
integrates the data collection and processing activities of
sector organizations; and
ii.   the development and maintenance of SEPSA's own data
processing hardware and software; and
b.    establishing technical standards for the development of
information systems within the sector that would permit necessary
links between sector organizations.
15.         Sector Reform and Modernization.  SEPSA has responsibility for
supporting sector reform and modernization in the areas of institutional
policy reform and the improvement of planning, budgeting and accounting
systems, especially where the reform effort is being undertaken on a sector-
wide basis. SEPSA's role includes guidance and oversight of progress in the
reform of sector agencies, as well as providing advice to CAN regarding the
institutional and legal implications of proposed changes. This function
includes:
a.    coordination and support of project activities under the World
Bank financed Agricultural Sector Investment and Institutional
Development Project; and
b.    coordination of the sector's response to the guidelines and
requirements rising from Government's public sector reform.
16.         organizational Structure.  SEPSA's organizational structure should
follow directly from the clarification of the functions discussed above
(paras. 27-32). In addition, SEPSA would be required to retain the internal
function of providing administrative support to its own office.



- 61 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 18
17.         Management authority over these units may be structured in several
different ways, but should be done in a way that ensures the integration of
the work of the various units, as well au provides adequate supervision of
these functions. There are at least two options which would require the least
disruption resulting from reorganization. One is for SEPSA to be atructured
to two deputies, allowing supervision of the four line functions to be divided
(one deputy supervising special programs and sector studies, and the other
planning and budgeting). The second is for the Planning and Budgeting units
to become subunits of a single unit, thereby ensuring the integration of those
two functions. A single deputy would then be sufficient for the supervision
of the three line functionat special programs, basic sector studies, and
sector planning and budgeting. These options are presented below in Charts 1
and 2. Which option SEPSA chooses between these two is relatively
unimportant. What is essential, however, is that the managers in these
positions are highly qualified professionals.
18.         The Institutional Development Program requires two kinds of
activities or inputs. The first is a specific set of decisions and actions by
Government. The second is a set of organizational activities which are
assisted by project financed technical assistance, training and equipment.
These two are presented below.
19.         Government Actions and Decisions.  Prior to Board presentation the
Government has: (a) formally established authority and responsibilities of the
Minister of Agriculture, CAN and SEPSA over the planning and budgeting of all
sector organizations; (b) formally adopted a new organizational structure for
SEPSA and transferred staff to strengthen its priority functions. (Additional
staff required are identified in Attachment 1); (c) created units in each of
the major sector organizations (MAG, CNP and IDA) to manage the organization's
data collection, processing and dissemination function; and (d) established an
inter-institutional commission to oversee the development of the agricultural
information system (paras. 2.11 and 2.36 (d) of SAR).
20.         Prot-ct Financed Institutional Development Activities and Inputs.
The institutional development program for SEPSA would focus on developing the
capacity of internal work teams as well as inter-organizational task forces.
There are three major phases in this process (see Chart 3). In the first
phase, Development of Detailed Recommendations, external consultants would
work with SEPSA staff to complete sector assessments and develop concrete
recommendations for the development of sector analysis, sector information
system, and an integrated financial management system. The results of Phase 1
would then become input to SEPSA's planning in Phase 2, Institutional and Work
Team Planning. It is anticipated that Phases 1 and 2 would occur in the first
year and a half of the project. Aspects of Phase 3 (Systems Development and
Training) may begin in the first year, but most activities would be scheduled
for years 2 through 7. Yearly reviews and replanning of progress would occur
in Phase 3. Specific products and targets for each year are provided in
Annex 11.



- 62 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 18
Tabl  1.  Ovtion A - SEPSA Oroanisational Structure
DLrectorE
SubDirector
L Admin. Unit                                 Project Coordination/
Sector Reform and
Modernization
Information
and Statistics
Special           Basic Secto               Planning & Budgeting
Programs           Studies
Plan-         Budget-
ning         ing &
Financial
Mgmt.
Table 2.  Ontion B - SEPSA Organizational Structure
Admin. Unit                                 Project Coordination/
i                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sector Reform and
Modernization
Information
and Statistics
SubDirector                             SubDirector
Special           Basic Sector         Planning            Budgeting
Programs          Studies                                  and Financial
Management



- 63 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 18
Institutional Develoa nut Proaras
tabl2 3. Institutional Develooment Phases - Sector Analysis, Plannin, and
Financial Manaamgent. and Information Systess Dav-loeuent
Year 1       Year 2     Year 3      Through   Year 7
Phase 1
Development
of D-tailed
Recommenda-
tions             XXXX
Phase 2
Institutional
and Work Team
Planning                xxxxxxxxx
Phase 3
system
Dcv. &
Training                            xxxXXX uXuLcXYxX-exxxxxxxx
21.         Phase 1:  Development of Detailed Recommendations.  The purpose of
this phase is to rapidly build on the foundation established in project
preparation by initiating task forces composed of outside short term
consultants and sector staff to complete the assessment and develop detailed
recommendations in the following three areas.
a.    Drioritv areas of economic and social analysis and related
information reouirements. In this step, SEPSA staff,!/ members
of CAN and COTECSA, key operational managers of sector
organizations, and the consultant would work together to 2utlines
(i) the priority policy and programmatic issues in the sector and
the related research questions to be answered; and
(ii) information and analytic requirements. Differentiation would
be made between the information and analyses required by CAN and
Government policy makers and that required by the managers of
specific agriculturs institutions and programs. (Three
person/months international consultant);
IJ    SEPSA staff participating should include the top management team and the
professional members of relevant units (i.e., the basic studies,
planning, and information units).



- 64 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 18
b.    acriculture sector revenue and expenditure rview and dvelo2m2nt
of guidelines for str-nothenina th- *ector 2lannina. budgeting and
flnancial Management system. This area in described in detail in
the TOR agreed at appraisal. It would be conducted by SEPSA,
working with a consulting team, and with the involvement of sector
organizations and centralized agencies (e.g., Ministry of
Finance). This work would develop an agreed framework for budget
and expenditure analysis, with attention given to ensuring
conformity of the sector's budgeting process with central
government requirements. The assessment would also identify the
need for central government changes to the extent that these may
be a prerequisite steps to improving sector planning, budgeting
and accounting. (Three person/months international consultant and
3 person/months local consultant); and
c.    definition of the scoDe. characteristics and imolementation olan
for the sector information system--the MIS "Master Plan." This
area is described in detail in the TOR agreed at appraisal, and
includes completing the diagnosis of the current information
systems as well as determining the priority requirements for
expanding and integrating those systems (US$55,000 lump sum).
22.         Phase 2:  Institutional and Work Team Planning.  With the
assistance of institutional development specialist(s) recruited by SEPSA and
financed by the loan, and with the participation of other members of SEPSA's
technical assistance team, SEPSA would conduct a structured, organizational
planning workshop. This workshop would involve its professional staff in
clarifying and developing a common understanding of: (a) SEPSA's overall
mission and objectives, including project-related modifications; (b) the
roles, responsibilities and inter-relationships of the re-organized units
within SEPSA; and (c) an outline of a strategic plan for organizational
activities by function and for the use of project institutional development
inputs (i.e., TA, training and equipment).
23.         Critical to the success of this phase is the use of a
participatory, action-planning process, involving all professional staff.
Planning within the workshop would occur at the level of SEPSA's management
team and the work teams responsible for each key function. The planning
process would also provide an important opportunity for the Minister and CAN
to review the definition of SEPSA's role, priorities and outline plan.
24.         Building on the results of institutional planning, SEPSA's units
would undertake work planning in each key area. The three major planning
areas are: (a) basic sector studies, analysis of impact of economic and sector
policies, and the development of related aspects of the agricultural
information network; (b) sector planning, budgeting and financial management
and development of related aspects of the agricultural information network;
and (c) land use classification and soil erosion control program. Support for
this effort would be provided by relevant TA specialists. In each area an
action plan would be developed, including terms of reference for technical
assistance, agreed by the Bank.



- 65 -
Annex 3
Page 10 of 18
25.           Phase 3*   Systes DeveloMent and TraLUL&S.  Given the foundation
provided by Phases I and 2, the emphasis ln Phase 3 is on implementation of
systems and Lncreasing staff capaaLty.  This is when the primary system.
development and analytical work would be done.  Progress would be reviewed
during nnugl Project Review and Planning Workshops, and plans revised to
address any changing conditions or technical requirements.
26.           Sumary of Institutional Develogent bnouts.  Technical
assistance, training and procurement of equlpment in support of the
development of these functions, would be financed by the project.  Financing
would be provided to assist SEPSA and other sector organlzations to design and
install systeme, train staff, and conduct analytical work. With reference to
technical assLstance, it should be noted that an important principle would be
to differentiate among specific consulting roles in TORs, based on the
recognition that institutional development and production of specific products
sow#atimes require alternative approaches by technical assistance personnel.
Resources for TA and training in each area are sumarized in Charts 4 and S
below.
Table 4. Institutional Develooment: Technical Assistance and Trafnina I/
Technical Assistance Area (USS)
Plenning and                                     institutional
Financial             Sector                    and Teas          Special               Total
Year       Management             Analysis                  Devolopment                  Training    Cost
(USS)      (USS)
Inter-     National    Inter-      National    Inter-     I ational    Studies
national    Cons        national    Cons.      national     Cons.
Cons.            -      Cons.                   Cons. m
1      36$000     12,000                                          -           35,000                 83,000
2     120,000     604000      48.000      36,000      48, 000     18,000      55.000    25,000      410,000
3     120,000     72,000      48,000      36,000      24,000      9,000       75,000    50,000      434,000
4      84,000     72,000      48,000      36,000      24,000      9,000       50,000     50,000     373,000
5        -        24,000                  36,000      24,000      9,000       35,000    25,000      153,000
6                       _                 36,000      24,000       9,000                 10,000      79,000
Cost    360,000    240,000     144,000     180,000     144,000     54,000      250,000    160,000    1,532,000
IV     Note: Internal consulting is calculated at an average rate of US$12,000 per month and national consultancy Is caleulated
at an average rate of USS3,000 per month.



Table S. Institutional Development: Technical Assistanc. and Training
Agricultural Information Network
SEPSA (USS)               Other Sector Institutions          OCEC MUSS)          Training
Year                                                    (USP)                                     (MIS               Total
Staff and         (USS)
MIS      Inter-                 MIS       Inter-                 Inter-     DGEC          U"rs)
Master   national   National   Master   national   National   national   Training
Plan     Cons.       Cons.      Plan      Cons.      Cons.       Cons.
I      10,000      _           _       46,000                               _                          _            S5,000
2         _      9e,000      SS,800       _         90o8                 144,000      e,eoo         21,000         493,400
3         -      96,000      94,800       -         90         80        216,000      13,200        21,000         611,000
4         -      96,000      68,200        -                    80        72,000      28,400        21,000         463,800
S         -        -         45,000       -                    60           -         26,400        21,000         152,400
6         -        _         39,000             -          -                -         26,400        21,000          88,400
Total    10,000   288,000    302,800    4S,000        280        300       432,000      99,000        105,000      1,881,800
'O
s-a
I.'
0 
S.



- 67 -
Annex 3
Page 12 of 18
B. Strenothening the Efficiency and Effectiveness of Sector Institutions
(IDA AND XAGI
Obiectives
27.         The purpose of the activities within this subcomponent is to
support the institutional changes required to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of MAG and IDA in the performance of their specialized role
within the sector. This subcomponent would finance the institutional
development assistance required by MAG and IDA to more effectively achieve
their technical goals, as described in the Land Titling and Consolidation and
the Agriculture Research and Extension Components of this project.
Specifically, this subcomponent would finance technical assistance and
training to assist MAG and IDA to:
a.    reorganize organizational structures and procedures to support
planned modifications in technical operations of each
organization; and
b.    increase efficiency and effectiveness of administrative,
financial, and logistical systems, to make them consistent with
the decentralization of operations and to make budgetary
allocations more transparent and responsive to sector priorities.
28.         The approach to the Institutional Development Program for MAG and
IDA would be similar to that described for SEPSA. It requires two kinds of
activities or inputs. The first is a specific set of decisions and actions by
Government. The second is a set of activities supported by project financed
technical assistance, training and equipment. These two areas are presented
below.
Institutional Development Proera
29.         Government Actions and Decisions.  Prior to Board presentation
(para. 2.43 of SAR), the Government transferred CNP and IDA extension
personnel to MAG, thereby consolidating the extension function in MAG (paras.
2.12 and 2.59 of SAR), and would implement the following additional
organizational changes:
a.    further decentralize MAG's research and extension personnel and
delegate key technical and administrative functions and
responsibilities of regional teams in MAG and IDA; and
b.    change the balance of IDA headquarters and field staff by
transferring headquarters staff in specific functional areas
(e.g., beneficiary selection and titling) to the regions, reducing
the 60:40 ratio of headquarters to field personnel to at least
50:50.
30.         Proiect Financed Institutional D2veloDMent Activities and Inputs.
The institutional development program for MAG and IDA would focus on
developing the capacity of internal work teams and inter-organizational task
forces, as well as developing appropriate management systems. The two major



-  68  -                          Annex 3
Page 13 of 18
phases include Phase 1, Institutional and Work Team Planning, and Phase 2,
Systems Development and Training. Specific products and targets for the
seven years of the loan are provided in Annex 11 of progress performance
lndicators.
31.         Phase l:  Inatitutional and Work Team Plannina.  With the
assistance of institutional development specialist(s) recruited by MAG and
IDAV and financed by the loan, and with the participation of other TA
consultants to those two organizations, MAG and IDA would each undertake
structured, organizational planning workshops. As in the case of SEPSA, these
workshops would involve its professional staff to clarify and develop a common
understanding of: (a) MAG and IDA's overall mission, policies and objectives,
including project-related modifications in these; (b) the roles,
responsibilities and inter-relationships of units within HAG and IDA,
especially focusing on the increasing decentralization of functions to
regions; and (c) an outline of a strategic plan for organizational activities
and for the use of project inputs (i.e., technical assistance, training and
equipment).
32.         Consistent with the principles associated with such an approach to
institutional development, participatory, action-planning processes, involving
key professional staff, would be employed. In addition to creating effective
teamwork among those responsible for the major functions within each
organization, the planning process would also result in an outline plan for
consideration by the Hinister and CAN.
33.         Building on the institutional level planning workshop, MAG's and
IDA's units would undertake more specific work planning in key areas. For
XAG, these areas are: (a) strengthening of the organization of regional teams,
including the reorganization required to support new approaches to extension
and reaearch; (b) financial management (especially revenue generation) and
procurement and supply systems; (c) logistical support system (including
maintenance and repair of vehicles and the assignment, control, and provision
of vehicles and fuel). For IDA, these areas are: (a) strengthening of
regional teams and coordinated action of central, regional and subregional
offices to complete titling and consolidation activities; (b) instituting
streamlined procedures for processing land distribution and settlement
according to established guidelines; and (c) strengthening internal management
information systems. In each of these areas, internal work teams would be
established to complete assessment and planning, and oversee implementation of
the change effort.
34.         Phase 2:  Systems Develooment and Training.  Given the foundation
provided by Phase 1, the emphasis in Phase 2 is on implementation. This is
when the program to strengthen regional operations would be implemented and
systems development would be done. Progress would be reviewed during annual
Project Review and Planning Workshops, and plans revised in a timely fashion
to address any changing conditions or technical requirements.
2/    These specialists would be hired with the assistance of SEPSA, but would
be responsible directly to MAG and IDA respectively.



-  69  -                        Annex 3
Page 14 of 18
a.    MAG:  Reaional Team Develovmemt.  Based on the organization-wlde,
strategic planning and work team planning in Phase 1, Phase 2
activities would involve team planning at the unit level (in San
Jose and in each region) to clarify objectives and
rosponsibilities, and develop and implement a work plan for
implementing project innovations;
b.    MAG:  Financial Management and Administrative Svstems.  Issues
regarding the budgeting and accounting systems are being addressed
in a sector effort coordinated by SEPSA. MAG would undertake this
additional effort in order to focus on organization-specific
issues regarding revenue generation and the internal procedures
for procurement and supply. Assessment and work planning for this
effort would be closely coordinated with the sector assessment and
improvements planned in the budgeting and accounting systems;
c.    MAG:  Management of Humai and Physical Resources.  The major
physical resource issues to be addressed are: (i) improving
vehicle maintenance, including potential privatization of the
service; (ii) rationalizing fuel allocations; and (iii) decen-
tralizing controls to the regional offices. In human resource
management, MAG will conduct a staffing review to develop plans
for further rationalization of personnel;
d.    IDA:  Recional Team Develoment.  A team planning session would be
held for regional and subregional unit to clarify objectives,
roles and responsibilities of members, and develop a work plan for
achieving project targets related to titling and consolidation.
Sessions would also provide input to the appropriate design of
streamlined organizational systems and procedures, and information
systems, thereby linking with work under "e" and "f" immediately
below;
e.    IDA:  Streamlinina Procedures for Land Distribution and
Settlement.  A task force would work with organizational
consultants to clarify problem areas (as already diagnosed),
identify priority areas for improvement, and implement changes
necessary; and
f.    IDA:  Internal Management Information Systems.  IDA would continue
to work on the development of its internal information system in
conjunction with the sector effort to develop an information
network ad in response to needs as identified by IDA units in
their work planning.
35.         Suxmary of Institutional Development In_uts.  TA and training, in
support of the development of these functions, would be financed by the
project. Financing would be provided to assist MAG and IDA in making
organizational changes, designing and installing improved systems and
procedures, and training staff.  As with SEPSA, it e  '- be noted that an
important principle in the design of the TA componet t_': be to
differentiate among specific consulting roles in TORs, .i.   on the
recognition that institutional development and production of specific products



- 70 -
Annex 3
Page 15 of 18
sometimes require alternative approaches by TA personnel. Specific TA
activities for HAG and IDA to be financed under the project are presented in
Chart 6.
III. Sumary of Personnel Nobilisation Prorsam
36.         Government's program of rationalization of public employment
within the agriculture sector is designed to meet the dual goals of reducing
public expenditures and increasing the effectiveness of sector organizations.
The Government plans to reduce public sector employment by a total of 7,000
employees by the end of 1992, with the reduction within major agriculture
sector organizations already reaching over 1000 employees. Targeted
categories of employees were those which were clearly redundant, or those
which were performing functions which could be better undertaken by the
private sector.
37.         In addition, as part of the sector reform and modernization
program, professionals would be transferred among sector organizations, as
required, to strengthen key functions. In agricultural extension,
professionals would be transferred from IDA and CNP to HAG. In accounting,
economics and public administration, professionals would be transferred from
IDA, CNP, MAG, and possibly MIDEPLAN, to SEPSA.
Retrenchment in Public sector Agriculture organizations
38.         To help finance the redundancy payments for the total projected
retrenchment of 7,000 employees (estimated to be a total of ¢ 3.5 billion),
USAID has agreed to the use of approximately ¢ 1.8 billion of funding
available through a Local Currency Agreement to the end of 1991 (the precise
amount available would depend on monetization limits agreed among the
Government and IMF).
39.         The initial staff retrenchment targets established for each of the
three largest agriculture organizations were met prior to Board presentation.
These targets were: (a) in CNP, a minimum of 750 employees currently involved
in the retail store operation; (b) in MAG, 128 employees; and (c) in IDA, a
minimum of 58 employees.



Tsbte 6. Institutionst Dhvelament: Tedmeial Assistac ard Tronini
*                                               MG snd ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDA
T--  ______          ANG tUSS)                                            ID A     S (USO                              Totals (USS)
Year    Inter-                                            Inter-      |
natial      National     Training    Recurr[nt     noti<l    |atiorot    Tr inin           Recurrent       MG         IDA        Both
Cons.       Cons.                    Costs -W      Cam.          Cons.    X                Costs
I                   6,000          .          .                         12,200                        -          6,000     12,200      18.200
2       24,000     39.000       45.650       80,100       24.000        26,400       21,000        22,100      188,750     93,500     282,50
3                  24,000       45,650       46,900       30,000        22,200       21,700         5400       116,500     79,300     195,850
4       24,000     30,000        7,200       85,600       18,000        19.100       22,500        23,600      146,800     83,200     230,000
5                   12,000                                              20,900       17,400         4,700       12,000     43,000      55,000
6                                                                       21,600         .              .                    21,600      21,600
Total     48,000     111,000       98,500     212,600        72,000       122,400      82,600         55.800     470,100     332,800    802,900
p/ Recurrent smtll costs to be firanced by the Governent.
* 
0
_.w



-  72  -                       Annex 3
Page 17 of 18
40.         The anticLpated cost of redundancy payments and yearly savings
from the planned staff reduction over the next seven years are the following.
lable 7
Estimated             Approximate           Total
Total Cost            No. of Employees      Savings
Organization        of Redundancy           Per Year             (7 years)
CNP                    $4.95 M                750                $21.00 M
MAG                    $ .50 N                128                 $3.34 M
IDA                    $ .35 M                 58                 $2.26 M
TOTAL                  $5.80 M                936                $26.61 M       l
Transfor _within Public Sector Agriculture Organisations
41.         Transfers of public employee. took place in two ways.  One method
is through a convenig, or agreement, allowing an employee to be loaned to
another organization for a special purpose. During this period, the home
organization continues to pay the employee's salary, and the employee retains
all rights granted him or her by the home organization. A second method is
the transfer of employees using Norma 29 of the 1990 Budget Authorization Law.
Although differing interpretations of applicable laws are held by various
persons in Costa Rica, such transfers have only been permitted, from one line
agency of the government to another, or from one decentralized (i.e.
parastatal) organization to another. After a period of two years, such
employees can be regularized within the new organization and the budget for
their support transferred to it.
42.         Still to be resolved is the mechanism by which staff can be
permanently transferred from a parastatal (IDA or CNP) to a central government
line agency (MAG or SEPSA). Because the salaries and benefits are
substantially higher in parastatals, their employees would be negatively
affected by any permanent transfer to an agency working under normal Civil
Service regulations. The law does not specifically allow for such prejudicial
transfers, and it is possible that any such transfer would not be upheld by
the courts.



- 73 -
Annex 3
Page 18 of 18
Attachment
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEPSA Staffina Reauirements
In order for SEPSA to effectively carry out the functions
described (paras. 7-15, Annex 3), it will require additional staff to be
transferred from other government agencies. The minimum additional staff
required, beyond SEPSA's current staffing level, are the following:
a.    Basic Sector Studies:  2 additional economLits (a macro and
natural resources/environmental economist).
b.    Plnninas  1 public administration project specialist.
Co   Budgetin.  and Financial Management:  1 financial management
specialist, 2 accountants, and 2 auditors.
d.    Information CollectiQn and Analysis:  1 systems analyst,
2 programmers, 1 statistician, 2 computer operators, and
2 secretaries.1/
e.    Lea1 URnit:  1 attorney and 1 legal assistant.
f.    Proiect Coordination Unit: 1 project coordinator, 1 project
specialist, 1 public administration specialist, 1 accountant,
2 secretaries and 1 assistant.
Ij    Professional staff of the Information Unit to be contracted.



-      -                        Annex 4
Page 1 of 1C
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Information System for the Agricultural
Sector of Costa Rica
I. Rationale for the Development of an Integrated Information System
1.          Given the gradual improvement that has taken place in the
agricultural sectorial policy framework following the implementation of SAL I
and SAL II, one of the remaining constraints to agricultural growth is the
poor performance of agricultural public sector institutions and in particular
their weak planning and budgeting capability. The Minister of Agriculture, as
Head of the National Agricultural Sector Council, has the overall
responsibility for sector policy planning and coordination, but this
responsibility has not been carried out properly largely due to the weakness
of CAN's planning secretariat, SEPSA, which is ill-equipped and ill-staffed to
provide sector analysis, planning and review of programs and expenditures.
2.          Past attempts by the country's agricultural sector agencies to
improve the data base and information system have led to different paths in
the development of information systems each one geared towards meeting its own
particular objectives, which were not necessarily sector oriented. As a
result, past efforts have often produced misallocation of limited human and
financial resources. The development of an efficient information system has
been constrained mainly due to a poor understanding of the potential use of
modern information technology when applied to decision making, and a lack of
clear information policy and trained personnel.
3.          Information systems developed in the past were often incompatible
between agencies and even within offices of the same agency. Efforts to
develop an information system within each agency depended more from the
ability of individuals to acquire hardware through bilateral and multilateral
aid than from specific policies. Furthermore, these acquisitions almost never
took into consideration the costs of using the computers, creating the
information system and the training of personnel. The legacy of this approach
is one of multiple makes, models and configurations of computers (details in
Tables 1 and 2). Fortunately, even though the procurement and use of
computers have been anarchic, available hardware has maintained a certain
degree of compatibility given that all machines run under MS/DOS. Even HAG's
WANG systems can, with only minor investments, be upgraded so as to
incorporate it into a potential network. Future developments in the
information field would have to take the available hardware into
consideration.
4.          An effective information system would integrate the data base of
the sector's executing agencies into a ces solidated data base that would
provide SEPSA with better information, which would in turn strengthen its role
as policy analyst and designer. However, for such an information system to
operate properly, there needs to exist a reliable data base. In Costa Rica
basic agricultural data gathering is weak and costly, and would need to be



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 10
strengthened and streamlined according to the integrated information system
requirements.
5.          As part of the agricultural sector institution strengthening
program, the agricultural sector's key public organizations would require an
improved and integrated agricultural information system, SIA, to enhance their
analytical capability and enable them to plan, execute and monitor their
activities adequately. From the perspective of SEPSA, the information
required from the proposed system would cover three levels:
a.    quantitative data for analysis of sectorial issues on a day-to-day
basis, including (i) basic indicators by crop and region, such as
area cultivated, number of cattle, volume and costs of production
(by component), prices at the wholesale and retail levels, value
and volume of imports and exports, and credit; and
(ii) macroeconomic indicators, such as gross domestic product and
its composition, sectorial contribution to GDP, external trade,
inflation, population, employment, and private and public
expenditure;
b.    a unified sector accounting system for budget monitoring, control
of expenditures and project execution; and
C.    qualitative information, i.e. bibliographical references about
studies and publications on agricultural economics and planning,
and technical information about research carried out on crops of
interest to Costa Rica.
II. The Proposed Agricultural Sector Information System (SIA)
A. Oblective
6.          The objectives of creating an integrated agricultural information
system in Costa Rica may be summarized as follow:
a.    to create an institutional capacity to generate, and store, a
permanent flow of reliable statistical data;
b.    to develop data gathering methodologies and mechanisms that will
allow the sector's planning authority to assess the impact of
Government policy, evaluate its implementation and monitor the
execution of Government plans and programs; and
c.    to optimize the use of the agricultural agencies' installed
capacity for data collection and processing.
B. Description of the Component
General
7.          The proposed Integrated Agricultural Information System (SIA)
would improve the quality of the basic data on the sector. Additionally, the
project would provide the hardware and software platforms required to process



-  76  -
i                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 4
Page 3 of 10
and analyze data, and strengthen the institutions and train the staff that
will operate the system and utilize the information.
8.          As part of its institutional strengthening program the project
would promote institutional reforms at two levels:
a.    the sectorial level, in which a council would be established (for
more details see para. 13 below) to be responsible for: (i) the
definition of information technology (IT) policies in the sector;
(ii) establishing the strategy for the development of the IT in
the sector; (iii) the definition of standards for acquiring
hardware and software in the Sector; (iv) the coordination with
the Agricultural Sector's Technical Council (COTECSA); (v) the
definition of training programs for the sector; and (vi) the
establishment of formal channels for the coordination and inter-
institutional information flow; and
b.    the agency level, where there would be an institutional council,
and information and statistical offices would be created in SEPSA,
MAG and IDA. The responsibilities of the institutional council
units (for more details see para. 15 below) would be:
(i) implement policies and recommendations of CONIEA; (ii) define
IT institutional policies; (iii) establish the strategy for the IT
institutional development; (iv) evaluate, approve and prioritize
the systems development; (v) analyze staff development and
training needs to prepare annual training program; and
(vi) establish the data administration function in each
institution.
9.          The project actions would concentrate mainly on SEPSA but other
institutions in the sector, such as MAG and IDA, would also be supported.
Additionally, some support would be provided to DGEC to improve their
production of statistics and to strengthen its management information system
regarding settlements.
Detailed Features
10.         The proposed agricultural information component would have four
subcomponents: (a) technical assistance to SEPSA and the main executing
agencies in the sector; (b) procurement of hardware and software; (c) updating
of the current land use map and design of a new sample for agricultural
surveys; and (d) training of personnel responsible for managing the system.
11.         The distribution of actions and investment requirements under each
sub-component by participating agency follows (see Table 2 for budget
information):
SEPSA:      A consultant or a consulting firm would prepare the Master
Plan for the development, design, and implementation of the
SIA information system. For application development the
consultant or consulting firm would require programmers and
data entry personnel to feed the data bases as well as short
term consultants with expertise on statistics, sampling



- 77 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 10
processes, survey design, data gathering process and
computer networks.
Under SEPSA's guidance the agricultural sector institutions
would develop their accounting and budget control system,
with the assistance of a consulting firm.
The project would cover the procurement of all hardware and
software requirements for SEPSA, including electrical
installations.
MAG and IDAt
Technical assistance by consultants who, in coordination
with the SIA Project Manager, would oversee each agency's
participation in the project as well as prepare the
Institution's Systematization Master Plan to develop the
most critical applications and data bases for the
development of SEPSA'S SIA. This work would be complemented
by system analysts and programmers who are to develop ad-hoc
applications to meet specific SIA's and agency requirements.
Also, procurement of hardware to complement existing
equipment so that they would integrate the SIA is foreseen.
DGEC        Under contract with SEPSA this agency would update the
current land use map and design the new sampling framework
for the annual surveys. The work would require a team of
experts in photo interpretation, design and execution of
statistical sampling processes based on land use maps for
creating a continuous data gathering system. Data
processing specialists would also be required. The DSEC
would require the procurement of special hardware and
software in order to modernize its capacity to store and
upgrade the map as well as the processing of data. Finally,
cost estimates include office supplies for hard copies of
maps, printing of surveys, and per diem costs of personnel
during their training and execution of the field work.
12.         In general, there are no established policies and procedures for
the use and management of IT assets, no standards for systems documentation,
and no established policy on accountability for costs and operation of
information systems. This situation makes the management of assets, which
represent years of investment and whose loss or interrupted operation could
seriously affect the administration of the sector, a very haphazard and risky
operation.
13.         Because information technology resources need to be administered
according to policies and procedures similar to those used for the
administration of other major resources such as personnel and money, an IT
coordinator for the entire SIA project will be appointed for 5 years. The
role of this coordinator, who could be an international consultant, will be
crucial in supervising the entire IT program, in advising SEPSA and the Sector
Institutions on decisions regarding procurement, type of computer technology,
costs, and software. This individual should also lead an effort to organize
the IS activities at SEPSA as an on-going long-term function, with appropriate



-  78  -nQx
78   -              ~~~~Annex 4
Page 5 of 10
staffing, budgetary, and technical resources. Finally, this person should
take leadership in organizing a steering committee for IT at SEPSA, MAG and
IDA (to which the IT support organization would report) and in developing the
terms of reference for this committee.
14.         On a sectorial basis, under the guidance of the inter-agency
Council, there is a need to finance and implement an inter-agency training
program. This would train both administrative and technical staff in the use
of word processing, spreadsheet, data base management and office automation
software selected by the Council for use in all agencies. Additionally, it
would be necessary to arrange specialized programming training programming for
staff assigned to the information and statistical offices in each agency (this
in addition to the training to be organized through the consultants as 'n-the-
job training).
C. Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation
15.         To reach the proposed objectives, the government would create the
Consejo Nacional de Informaci6n y Estadisticas Agropecuarias", CONIEA. This
entity, under the leadership of SEPSA, would: (a) define information
technology (IT) policies in the sector; (b) establish the strategy for the
development of the IT in the sector; (c) define standards for hardware and
software in the sector; (d) approve donations of computer equipment for the
sector agencies; (e) evaluate, approve or disapprove (rejection/denial)
requests for the acquisition of hardware and software not included in the
standards; (f) supervise the implementation and actualization of the policies
and standards; (g) coordinate with the Agricultural Sector's Technical Council
(COTECSA); (h) define the training programs for the sector; (i) identify the
sector agency that originates each critical data element for the sector,
assigning to it the accountability of the data collection, maintenance and
quality; and (j) establish formal channels for the coordination and inter-
institutional information flow.
16.         The Council would be composed of representatives from SEPSA, MAG,
IDA and delegates from the Direccion Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos (DGEC),
the Ministerio de Planificaci6n (MIDEPLAN) and the Consejo Nacional de Ciencia
y Tecnologia (CONICIT). All representatives from the sector's agencies would
be the data administrators and the chiefs of the information and statistical
units/offices or their deputies. The council, as a coordirating body that
monitors the implementation of policies, would meet regularly.
17.         The creation of CONIEA would demand in turn the creation at the
agency level of an institutional council. This entity would: (a) implement
the policies and recommendations dictated by CONIEA; (b) define IT
institutional policies; (c) account for the maintenance of the sector data
identified as critical; (d) establish the strategy for the IT institutional
development; (e) define the institutional hardware/software standards;
(f) evaluate, approve or disapprove (reject/deny) the requests for acquisition
of hardware and software not included in the standards, the approved requests
will be 'elevated' for CONIEA evaluation; (g) evaluate and approve the
standards for software development; (h) evaluate, approve and prioritize the
systems development; (i) supervise the implementation and actualization of the
policies and norms, standards and procedures; (C) identify the information
needs for the development of new applications; (k) analyze staff development



- 79 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 10
and training needs and prepare the annual training program; (1) establish the
data administration function in each institution; and (m) function as service
unit giving support, coordinating and maintaining the institutional data
bases.
18.         The creation of CONIEA and the institutional council would demand
the internal reorganization of SEPSA, MAG and IDA to create units that would
act as service units for all issues concerning the information system. When
key functions are carried out and managed through computerized information
systems, it is necessary to have a properly organized, well managed and
reliable computer systems support organization. Among others they would have
the following responsibilities:
a.    to study the available information, assess the statistical and
computing needs of their respective agencies and support the
applications being used;
b.    to analyze training requirements of their respective agency and
plan these activities on an annual basis; and
c.    to supervise the implementation of CONIEA's recommendations and
assume the agency's responsibility regarding maintenance of the
sector's data and information identified as critical for SEPSA's
analysis.
19.         The institutional council would be composed of the Director of the
institution, the Department Directors, the Data Administrator and the
Director/Chief of the Systems Unit. The council, as a coordinating body that
monitors the implementation of policies, would meet regularly.
20.         The responsibility for data and information collection and
maintenance resides in the agency that originates the data. In other words,
all of the sector agencies, the country's official statistical office and, in
some cases, the private sector share the responsibility for quality and
maintenance of the data for the SIA.
21.         A professional training program which provides sector experts
periodic contacts with source vendors is lacking, thus risky isolation from
the sources of technology exists. The IT component would address these
shortcomings with an established training program consistent with the
importance of the IT assets at risk. With the successful implementation of
the SIA, SEPSA and the other Sector Institutions will have information
technology assets of very high value, far surpassing the investment costs
necessary to produce them. It will be necessary, therefore, to protect these
information technology assets, ensure their uninterrupted operation and make
possible their expansion in the long run. This project component will
therefore include amounts to upgrade software systems, to ensure that the
latest official versions are running on all computers, to acquire technical
documentation, and to periodically attend training courses and/or user
meetings.



- 80 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 10
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1. Current Distribution and Use of Computers and Software
in the Agricultural Sector by Institution
Comp.    Num.  Oper.
Inst.  Type    Units   Sys.              Comments
SEPSA  8088    1       DOS         Used for word processing and editing of
credit data base.
80286   5       DOS         All applications currently used in these
units have been chosen by the
departments that control the computer;
they operate as independent units and
have little technical support.  Only the
library and the UTN (RUTA project) have
been able to acquire specialized software
or to develop applications by bringing
in outside help for specific tasks.
80386   1       DOS         Manages the Secretariat's only working
database (the credit data base).  This
computer although the fastest in the
office is insufficient for the data base
(65 MB hard drive).
Printers 7
ObservatLons.  Regarding the use of these computers, of the 37 staff
members who have received training, there are 13
secretaries who use no less than 3 word processors and have
knowledge of 4 different spreadsheet applications. The
technical staff at SEPSA also uses 4 data base
applications, 2 desktop publish'.ng, 2 graphics, and 3
language programs, none of this software has been licensed
to operate in SEPSA and therefore there is no documentation
or outside support. On the other hand, with the exception
of three people, the staff has no knowledge of programming
or application development.



- 81 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 10
Table 1. Current Distribution and Use of Comguters and Software
in the Agricultural Sector by Institution (Cont.)
Comp.    Num.  Oper.
Inst.  Type    Units   Sys.                   Comments
MAG    8088    34      DOS/        Distributed among all the Direcciones of
UNIX        the MAG these computers are assigned
tasks that include word processing,
spreadsheet, data base management and
other functions.
80286   28      DOS/        Used essentially for the same purpose
UNIX        mentioned above, including the
Minister's staff (only for word
processing). Their procurement was
through projects with outside financing.
80836   8       DOS/
UNIX
Mini WANG VS 45-16X         It has two 288 MB and four 75 MB disk
units and one 180 cps printer.
Software-wise counts with a word
processor, and BASIC, COBOL and RPG II
compilers.
Observations.  MAG's personnel is using word processing, spreadsheet,
graphics, statistical, data base and utilities and other
commercial software packages. Additionally, MAG uses
BASIC, PASCAL and FORTRAN for especial application
development by the technical units. Once again most of the
software has not been licensed for use by MAG, there is
little documentation and frequently more than one version
of the same program is running within the computers. Some
specialized software has been purchased for models of
animal health projects. Finally each unit gives support to
their users but there is no centralized planning for the
use of these machines.



COSTA RICA
AGRICtLTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL D£VELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Basic Information Technotogy Project Cost Estimates
(US$ low)
A  -                 Q tuantity per year           Unt                  Cost per Year             T
LAbel        1  2    3    4    S    Total       Cost         1      2       3     4     6     Cost
I.  Project Managment                  Man-years       1   1    1    1   1       6       a0.00        60    6o      so    60    60     300
a.  1T Coordination
b. Dov. of IT Policleu/Proccd.
SEPSA
1. Studies A Tech. Assistance
a. MIS Moster Plan Study           Lump-sum       1                          1       10.00        10      0      0     0     0      10
(Coop.)
b. MIS Development Tem
1. Team Leader                 Man-month      6   12  12   12  12       64        3.00       18    36    86   36   36          162
2. Technical Strff
Programers               Man-month           18 24    0           s0        2.00         0     to    48    18      0     100
Data Entry              UMn-month       3   18  27   14    6      68        0.60         2     11    16      9     3      41
3. Intornational Cons.         Man-month           8   8    8           24       12.00        0      96    96    96    0       288
Studies/Tech. Assistance                                                                      30    179    196   167    39     601
2. Computers snd Software
a.  Ilni Computers and PCs
1. Documntation Module          Lump-m         1                          1       80.00       so      0      0    0       0      6o
2. Other SIA Modules            Luwp-sum            1                     1      260.00        0    250       0    0      0     250
b. Softwaro
1. Documentation Module         Lump-sum                                          13.00       13      e      0      0     0      13
2. Other SIA Modules            Lump-sum                                          38.00        0     36      0      0     0      3a
c. -Electrical Installations          N/A                                             60.00        10    40       0    0      0      SO
d. Other Physlcal Resources           N/A                                             23.00        8       8      7    0      0      23
*. maintenance                        N/A                                            280.00        0     70      70    70    70     280
Computers A Software                                                                        91    404      77   70   70       712
Total SEPSA                                                                                 121   683    273   227   109   1,313
Sector Institutions
.                                  ~~~~~~~~~~* 
1. Studies A Tech. Assistance                                                                                                                       1o
*.MIS Miaster Plan Studi-s       L_ump*u                                   a       4S.00       45      O      O     O     O       45           O 
b   IT Sup - Instit Strengthen.    Lump-sum            1                     1      280.00        0    280      0     0     0      280           i
C. IT Sup - Systems Dev.           Lmp-um              1                     1      300.00        0     80     80    80   60       300
Total MAC, IDA and QCP                                                                      46    360     S0    80    60      625



Table 2. Basic Information Technology Project Cost Estimates (Cont.)
(US '000)
Agency and Component     Unit              Quantity per year                 i  t             Cost per Year                 T
*Li>el        1    2    3    4     6    Total      Cost          1      2      3     4     6      Cost
DOEC
1. Consultants
a.  main Consultant                Man-month       6   12    6                  24       12.00        72    144     72     0     0      288
b.  Data Processing                Mon-month            6    O                  12       12.00        0      72     72     0     0      144
c.  Photo Interpretation A Maps    Lump-sum                                      0       12.00        0    100       0     0     0      100
Consultants                                                                                    72    316    144      0     0      532
2. Computer and Software
*. Computer                             1               1                        1      170.00        O    170       0     0     0      170
b. Software                          N/A                1                        1       45.00        0     46       0     0     0      46         A
Computer A Software                                                                             0    216      0     0      0     215          C
S. Surveys
a.  Photography                      N/A                                         0      21.0O         0     12     11    11    11       45
b. Composition A Printing            N/A                                         0      100.00        0     25     26    26    26      100
c. Training                         Units          2    4     8    8    8       30       3.30         7     18     26    28    26       9
d.  Transportation/Per Diem        Man-dsys      240  560  2400 2400 2400   9,0C0         0.03        7     17      72    72    72     240
Surveys                                                                                       14    67    134   134   134       484
Total DOEC                                                                                    86    698    276   134   134   1,231
Training
1. MIS Technical Staff                   N/A                                                             11    11      11    11     116
2.  End Usrs                             N/A                                                             10     10     10    10    10       S0
Total Traininn                                                                                21     21     21    21    21      106
Totel Component Cost       ._ _____                                                          333  1,622    713   522   384   3,674
o H



-  84  -                         Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Land Use Classification and
Soil Erosion Control Program
1.          The results of program activities planned under this component
will provide the objective analytical tools to support future Bank
agricultural and environmental lending in Costa Rica. The development of the
economic land use classification and soil erosion control program evolved as a
strategy to overcome present constraints to agricultural growth in Costa Rica.
The past "ad hoc" planning practiced throughout government along with an
absence of reliable estimates of land suitable for sustained agricultural
production has resulted in agricultural activities, settlement programs and
infrastructure being poorly planned, poorly sited and subsequently often
leading to enviroumental degradation or failure. The lack of a comprehensive,
cohesive planning instrument has led to declining agricultural productivity,
costly deforestation, and less than optimum utilization of the country's
agricultural and natural resource potential. The present efforts developing a
general econo;aic land use classification or "Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial"
are noteworthy since this program established an inter-institutional
coordinating committee to develop a technically sound methodology and to
create a consensus across both government and the private sector towards
improved land use planning in Costa Rica.
2.          An economic land use classification and soil erosion control
program will provide the objective analytical tools to improve and modify the
present inadequate allocation of limited land resources in Costa Rica. The
methodology is based on soil fertility, slope, climatological factors and
socio-economic criteria to indicate areas where agricultural production can be
intensified, to indicate areas where cultivation practices should be modified
and to indicate areas where cultivation should be eliminated. This "policy
matrix" would be used as a blueprint to guide public and private investment
into areas most productive for sustainable development which is key for future
Costa Rican economic growth.
3.          In areas with high potential for sustainable agricultural
development road networks would be densified to improved access to markets and
more detailed soil and land capability mapping programs would provide
information to improve on-farm planning and improved production. In areas
inappropriate for sustainable agricultural or forestry production
infrastructure would be limited along with public and private investment to
protect watersheds and reduce non-conforming activities. This "new approach"
to foster agricultural and parallel economic growth would not only enable
Costa Rica to maximize agricultural and forestry production on a sustainable
basis, but at the same time serve as a tool to further protect the environment
through programs to demarcate the boundaries of national parks, biological
reserves, wildlife refuges, national forests and protected areas.



-  85  -                        Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
4.          The previous 'ad hoc' approach was recognized as a constraint to
sustainable agricultural growth and detrimental to efforts promoting
appropriate land use patterns and soil conservation practices. This consensus
building strategy reflects the importance now given to promoting sustainable
agricultural development and to protecting environmentally sensitive areas.
5.          Activities financed under the project will include:
a.    soil and land capability mapping in high priority areas for
agricultural development;
b.    strengthening the national meteorological network in high priority
areas for agricultural development;
c.    establishing soil conservation demonstration plots in each of the
eight 'regions with an economic analysis of present "pre-
demonstration plot" conditions of on-farm management to serve as
base data for later economic studies of appropriate crop mixes and
soil conservation practices;
d.    establishing three erosion control test plots under different
geographic conditions in each region to provide data on erosion
rates throughout the country and to help in the design and
implementation of appropriate soil conservation programs in Costa
Rica; and
e.    demarcation of national parks, biological reserves, wildlife
refuges, forest reserves and protected zones.
6.          The objective of the soil and land capability studies is to
develop an analytical framework for improved agricultural development and
increased production through the promotion of appropriate land use patterns
and soil conservation practices. The tools of socio-economic and
agroecological zoning help establish priorities and optimize resources to
achieve this end. This semi-detailed land capability mapping will provide the
Secretaria Ejecutiva de Planificacion Sectorial Agropecuaria (SEPSA), the
extension service and farmers sufficiently detailed information to improve on-
farm planning and promote more efficient production. The soil and land
capability mapping program would cover high potential agricultural areas -4th
semi-detailed soil investigations and field surveys at 1:50,000 while selected
areas such as potential irrigation areas would be mapped at 1:25,000. The
integrated land capability mapping program and aerial photography acquisition
would be acquired through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). This
component would finance vehicle, for supervision of the soil and land
capability mapping contracts, soil survey equipment, memory upgrades for the
existing computerized Geographical Information System, salaries of the SEPSA
Coordinating Unit, travel costs for field supervision, vehicle maintenance and
operating costs, consultant services, acquisition of aerial photography and
execution of soil and land capability mapping over 1.25 million ha.
7.          The present National Meteorological Network contains only 14 Class
A stations which provide inadequate coverage for agro-meteorological data in
the high potential agricultural areas of the country. The project will



-  86  -                       Annex5
Page 3 of 10
construct 15 new automatic Class A stations in areas presently void of
stations and these automatic stations would record and transmit the
meteorological observations via METEOSAT to a central receiving station
located in the National Meteorological Service headquarters in San Jose on a
'real time" basis thus improving dramatically the access and use of current
meteorological data in weather forecasts and advisories. Forty five (45)
Class B meteorological stations will be upgraded to Class A semi-automatic
stations and will strengthen significantly the amount of meteorollogical data
available within the high priority agricultural areas. In addition, the
component will include supplemental climatological and meteorological studies
in the high priority agricultural areas, i.e. (a) "tierras agricolas sin
restricciones o con ligeras restricciones; (b) tierras agricolas con moderadas
restricciones; o (c) tierras para cultivos perennes." This meteorological
network strengthening will allow these areas to adjust cultivation practices
to make full use of appropriate agronomic techniques and agro-meteorological
inputs.
8.          The objective of the soil conservation demonstration plots, each
covering approximately 2 ha, will illustrate how appropriate soil conservation
practices can improve agricultural production. One demonstration plot will be
located in each of the eight regions and prior to the establishment of these
"demonstration plots" an economic analysis of the present system of on-farm
management will be carried out to serve as comparative base data for other
economic studies of appropriate crop mixes and soil conservation practices.
These demonstration plots will be funded for the five years of the project and
will be integrated with other agricultural extension service demonstration
plots. This sub-component will finance construction materials, labor costs to
install soil conservation works, initial soil, climatological and hydrological
analysis, personnel costs and annual operating costs of the soil conservation
demonstration plots over the five year project.
9.          Erosion control studies will be implemented in three different
geographical areas within each region, each covering approximately a hectare,
to collect quantifiable data on soil erosion rates under different
geographical conditions throughout Costa Rica. In addition these erosion
control studies will develop daca for applying such analytical instruments as
the Universal Soil Loss Equation to programs and strategies to promote
appropriate soil conservation practices in Costa Rica and throughout Central
America and Panama. These erosion control studies will finance construction
materials, me_suring equipment, labor to install the erosion control works,
the initial soil, climatological and hydrological analyses, personnel costs
and annual operating costs over the five year life of the project.
10.         The combination of geographic, geological and climatic factors in
this small mountainous country has created a great variety of different and
unique environments. Although significant progress has been made in the
protection and conservation of the rich and diverse flora and fauna, Costa
Rica still suffers one of the highest rates of deforestation in Latin America.
Approximately 11? of the country is designated "strict protection areas", i.e.
national parks, biological reserves or wildlife refuges. Another 1lO of the
country is only partially protected and certain types of exploitation are
allowed in forest reserves and protected zones.



-  87  -                       Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
ll.         While Costa Rica has been a leader in establishing parks and
protecting the diverse natural resources, adequate funds often have not been
available to demarcate or to protect the boundaries of these areas to
discourage invasions or non-conforming uses. At present, projects of the
Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario (IDA) or "areas de los asentamientos
campesinos" illegally occupy 55,168 ha within protected areas. Under the
component, Ordenamiento Territorial, each protected area would be demarcated
with a 4 meter right-of-way cleared of vegetation around the perimeter, the
boundary would be surveyed and concrete markers implanted each 200 meter
depending on the terrain to improve the protection and discourage invasions of
these areas. This program would cover the demarcation of 2610 km of
boundaries around the perimeter of these protected areas, setting of concrete
monuments, site maintenance and supervision of the course of the project.
12.         The economic land use classification and soil erosion control
component also includes a training program, consultant services and equipment
procurement outlined below. The training program addresses technical training
on the economic land classification and soil erosion control to staff working
in San Jose as well as the eight regions to facilitate program implementation.
Periodic short courses/seminars are planned at the regional level to address
soil conservation practices and the economic land classification. Preparation
of technical bulletins, training films, and the publication of 5000 copies of
the Soil Conservation Manual would als, be included under the training
program. In addition, a technical library covering soils, land capability
mapping and land use planning would be established in SEPSA and adequate map
storage equipment/cabinets would bi acquired to store maps produced during the
project. A facsimile machine would be installed in each Ministry of
Agriculture (MAG) office in each of the eight administrative regions to
improve communications with field offices and in parallel a television and VCR
would also be located in each regional HAG office to be utilized for
appropriate training programs.
13.         Consultant services would be required for technical assistance in
guiding and supervising the semi-detailed land capability studies in high
potential agricultural areas. Short-term legal consultants would be required
to inventory existing environmental land use legislation, assess strong and
weak points and prepare in consultation with the interinstitutional working
group draft legislation to implement the economic land use classification as
law.



COSTA RICA
AGICULTURAL SECTOR DIVEST WT MO INSTlUlIIW.L DfEmV9PW P!MaF_T
Institutional Oev-lop snt Component
Table 1.  Land Use Closslfleation and Soll Erosion Control Program
Detalled Cost
(U4)
Unit     [  01        Quantity               Unit                    Base Cost ir US$
~~~~~~~~~~~~unit                         -     -Cost
01  02 03 04 06 06-07 Total  01-07         01    02    03    04   06    OS-07    Total
I. Investment Costs                                                                                                                  _
A. Land Capability Vapping
Vehicles                      Unit          4   0  0  0 0  0          4    20.00    80.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           60.0
Computer Equipment            Unit          -    -  -       -  - _    -       -      116.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    115.0
Soil Survey Equipment         Unit      ---                                   -      50.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          60.0
Consultants Soil Invest.    Lump-sum     -        -       --                  -      40.0 1120.0 840.0 800.0   0.0   0.0   2800.0
Consultants Aerial Photo    Lump-sum     -        -       --                  -     470.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   '470.0
Subtota I_I 766.0 1120.0 840.0 600.0   0.0   0.0   3615.0
8. Erosion Control Plots                                                                                                                        I
Parcel Preparation Costs      Unit         24   0  0  0 0  0          24    1.30    31.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           31.2
Equipment                     Unit         28   0  0  0 0  0          26    0.60    15.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           16.6      *
Initial Soil Analysis         Unit         24   0  0  0 0  0          24    0.30      7.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           7.2      C
Initial Climatol. Analy.      Unit         24   0  0  0 0  0          24    0.30      7.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           7.2
Subtotal                                                                          61.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          61.2
C. Soil A Water Demns. Plots
Preparation Costs             Unit          8   0  0  0 0  0           8    1.60    12.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           12.8
Initial Soil Analysls     Persons/Mo.       8   0  0  0 0  0           8    0.30      2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           2.4
Initial Climatol. Analy.   Persons/mo.      8   0  0  0 0  0           8    0.30      2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           2.4
Initial Economic Analy.    Persons/mo.      8   0  0  0 0  0           8    3.00    24.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           24.0
Annual Economic Analy.    Persons/mo.       0   8  8  8 8  0          32    2.50      0.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0   0.0          80.0
Studies                       Unit          1   1  1  1 1  0           5   10.00    10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   0.0           60.0
Subtotal                                                                          61.6  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0   0.0    171.6
0. Agro-Metoorological Comp.
Equp. Meteorol. Stations       Unit          0   1S  0  0 0  0    15    10.00          0.0  150.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   160.0
Upgrade Meteoro. Stations      Unit         15  1S 15  0 0  0    46          4.00    60.0   60.0  60.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   180.0
Central Met. Station           Unit          0   1  0  0 0  0          1    60.00      0.0   60.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    60.0
Construction Costs             Unit          1   0  0  0 0  0          1    82.00    49.2   16.4  16.4   0.0   0.0    0.0    82.0
Climat. A Ueteor.Studles       Unit          0   0  0  0 0  0          1    36.00      0.0   14.0  10.6  10.5   0.0    0.0    36.0
Subtotal                                                                          109.2  800.4  86.9  10.5   0.0    0.0   507.0
0



Institutional Oevelopment Couponeat
Table 1.  Land Use Clasolfication and Soll Erosion Control Prosra  (Cost.)
Detatild Coet
(us$)
Qurntity                Unit                     Sose Cost l USISI
unit                                           Cost
01  02  03 04 06 06-07 Totol   01-07         01    02    03       04   0    0-07    Total
E. Training Program
Training Eq.lp. MAO             Unit          8   S  0   0 0   0        is       1.50     12.0   12.0   0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    24.0
gap Storage Equip.            Loop-sun        _   _   _                                   1S.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    15.u
Library Materials             Lump-sum                                   - _              12.6   12.5   0.0   0;0   0.0         0.0    26.0
Course Land Class. A Sol[      Courses        I        o 0  0  0  0      1    200.M9   120.0   30.0   0.0   0.C    0.0          0.0   200.0
Periodic Seminars              Courses        8        8  8 0   8    40         10.00    80.0   80.0  30.0  30.0  81J.0         0.0   400.0
Technical Bulletins           Lump-sum                                              -     7.6   16.0   7.5   0.0    0.0    0.0    30.0
Training Films                Lump_sum                                              -    10.0   16.0   15.0  10.0   0.0         0.0    60.0
Pub. Soil Conserv. Manual     Lump-sum                                              -    20.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    20.0
Cons. Land Capab. Stud.      Persons/mo.      2    2   1  0 0  0         S      12.00    24.0   24.0    6.0   0.0    0.0        0.0    64.0
Cons. Land Capab. Mapping    Persons/mo.    12  12 12  0 0   0          36       3.00    36.0   36.0  38.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    109.0
Legal Consultants            Persons/mo.      4   00  0 O         0      4       3.00    12.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0        0.0    12.0
Subtotal                                                                              349.0  274.6  144.6  90.0   30.0       0.0   93t.0
|    Total Investment Costs                                                                     1326.0  1724.9 1101.4  930.6  110.0    0.0  5192.
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                    l
A. Land Capability Mapping                                                                                                                          W
Salaries Sopsn              Lump-sum _    _    _   _                    -        -    76.8    76.6  76.3   78.9  76.3        0.0   334.0
TraY. Allow. Soil lip.        Unit         300 300 260 200 200 0    1250       0.03      9.0    9.0   7.6   0.0    6.0        0.0    37.5
Vehicles Maintenance          Unit           4   4   4  4   4 0         20      1.60     6.0    6.0   6.0    6.0    6.0    0.0    30.0
Vehicles Consumption          Unit           4   4   4  4  4 0          20     3.30    13.2   13.2  13.2   13.2   13.2    0.0    66.0
Subtotal                                                                            105.0  10C.0  103.5  102.0  102.0      0.0   617.6
S. Erosion Control Plots
Consumables                   Unit         24  24  24  24  24  0      120      0.70    16.8    16.8  18.8   16.8   1  8.    0.0    84.0
Salaries                    Lump-sun        _   _   _   _   _          -         -    73.6   37.8  73.6  73.6  73.6          0.0   368.0
Subtotal                                                                            90.4   90.4  90.4  90.4  90.4    0.0   462.0
C. Soll A Water Domo.Plots
Salaries                      Unit           0    8  8  8  8 0          32     3.70      0.0   29.6  29.6  29.8  29.6    0.0   116.4
D. Agro-Meteor. Comp.
Salaries                    Lump-suon        _    _-                     -              30.0   30.0  30.0  30.0   30.0    0.0    150.0
Travel Allowance              Unit         168 168 168 168 168 0    840        0.03      6.0    6.0    6.0    5.0    6.0      0.0    26.2
Vehicles Hire                 Unit         120  120 120 120 120 0    600       0.03      3.1     3.1   3.1    3.1   3.1       0.0    16.6
Vehicles Consumption          Unit         24  24  24 24 24  0        120      0.19      4.4    4.4   4.4    4.4   4.4    0.0    22.0
Consumables                   Unit          0    00  0   0  0           1    12.00       2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4   2.4       0.0     12.0
Subtotal                                                                 I           46.0    46.0  46.0   46.0   46.0      0.0    224.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                       240.0  270.0  283.6  267.0  267.0      0.0   1312.7
Total                                                                                      1S88.4 1994.9  136U.9 1197.6  377.0    0.0  6506.5
Note:  Unit coats scaled by 1000.0; values scaled by 1000.0



COSTA RZCA
AMICULTURAL SECTO  IWESTMEN  AND ISTTTONAL DEVELOPM   PROJECT
Institutional Develog nt Component
Table 2. Demareatin of National Parka and Indisenous R orven
Dotes I led Cost
I   Quantity        Unit                      Base Cost in USt
Unit       |                    Cost
_______________                      101-07  Total       01-07       01    02    03    04   05   06   07  Total
I. Invstment Costs
A. Const. of Boundaries
National Parks            Lusp-sum           _                         265.0 680.0 610.0 256.0  0.0  0.0 0.0 1700.0
Indigenous Resrves        Lump-sum                  _          _       153.0 806.0 408.0   0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  857.0
Subtotal                                                             408.0 986.0 918.0 255.0  0.0  0.0 0.0 2567.0
Total Invostment Costs                                              ff 408.0 986.0 918.0 255.0  0.0  0.0 0.0 2657.0
II. fi current Costs
A. National Parks
Maintenance               Lump-sue                             -         0.1 280.0 280.0 290.0 280.0 280.0 0.0 1400.0
Salaries                  Lump-sum                    - _      _        20.1  20.1  20.1  20.1 20.1  0.0 0.0  100.6
Subtotal                                                              20.1 800.1 300.1 300.1 300.1 280.0 0.0  1S00.5
B. Indigenous Reserves
Maintenance               Lump-sum                    - _      _         0.0 188.0 188.0 188.0 188.0 188.0 0.0  940.0
Selaries                  Lump-sum  ,                          -        20.1  20.1  20.1  20.1 20.1  0.0 0.0  100.6
Subtotal                                                              20.1 208.1 208.1 208.1 206.1 189.0 0.0  1040.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                                     40.2 508.2 608.2 508.2 606.2 488.0 0.0 2541.0
Total                                                                    448.2 1494.2 1426.2 763.2 560.2 466.0 0.0 5106.0
Note: Unit costs scaled by 1000.0; values scaled by 1000.0
o M



-  91  -                               Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table S. Demarcation Program
Boundary
P-rimeter
Requiring         Bank
Doe"rcatlon     Financing /
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (km_)  ( CU S S)
National Parka
1.    Barre Honda                                                  26.9           19,508
2.    Broullo Carrillo                                            144.5           77,925
S.    Cahuita                                                       9.8            5,286
4.    Corcovado                                                    82.9           33,920
5.    La Amistad 8io0phere Resorve                                358.0          193,069
International Boundary                    3                  51.4           27,718
1a.   La Amisted Blosphero Reserves
(Smaller area)                                               28.7           16,477
International boundary                                        6.4            8,461
6.    Chirripo                                                     78.1           41,038
Contiguous border with La Amisted                            28.8           16,531
7.   Itol del Coco                                                   b/               b/
S.    Monuol Antonio                                                876            4,638
9.    Palo Verdo                                                   28.8           15,531
Continuous boundary with Wildliff Refugo,
Dr. Refool Lucas Rodriguez                                  3.5            1,887
10.    Rincon de to Viejo                                           54.2           29,228
11.    Santa Ross                                                   67.8           81,170
12.    Tortuguero                                                   61.0           27,503
18.    Volcan Irazu                                                 17.1            9,222
14.    Volcan Poea                                                  27.8           14.992
Subtotal                                          1,042.8          582,081
Biological Reserves
15.    Carara                                                       41.6           22,484
16.    Hitoy Corer,                                                 46.0           24,287
17.    Isle del Cono                                                  b/               b/
10.    Islas ¢uoyabo y Negritos
19.    Isle de Pajoro/
20.    Loman Barbudal                                               82:8           17,618
21.    Zarbilla                                                     66.2           30 307
Subtotal                                            175.6           94,698
Absolute Notural Reserve
22.    Cabo Blanco                                                  60.4           27,179
Notionol Monument
28.    Ousyabo                                                       1.S              sea



- 92 -
Annex 5
Table 3.  Demarcation Progr    (Cont.)                       Page 9 of 10
Boundary
Perimoter
Requiring         Bank
Demarcatlon     FinancIng a
___________________________ __ .___  (km)  (USs)
WilIdlIfe R.tugEu
24.    Barre del Colorado                                              72.1            88,881
International boundary                                         42.4            22,885
26.    Cano Nogro                                                      51.4            27,718
26.    Curu                                                             0.6             4,584
27.    Dr. R. Lucas Rodriguez                                          6006            82,628
28.    Candoce and Manzanillo                                          16.8             8,413
29.    Colfito                                                         28.2            12,511
80.    Isla Bolnnov s/                                                                     b/
31.    Ostlonal                                                        16.4             8,844
82.    Pennu Blencan                                                   19.7            10,624
a8.    Toamrlndo                                                       10.1             5,447
84.    Tapanti                                                         31.8            10 879
Suttotal                                              861.2           189,892
Forest Roserves
85.    Arenal                                                          98.9            58,884
86.    Cordillera Volceanice Central                                  168.0            90,921
!7.    Cordillera do Guanaceste                                        96.8            58,280
88.    Oulfo Dulce                                                    201.0           108,393
89.    Orecia                                                          15.1             8,143
40.    Juan Castro Blanco                                              56.8            30,091
41.    Los Santos                                                     117.7            68,472
42.    Matins                                                           7.6             4,098
48.    Rio Macho                                                      181.0            70,644
44.    San Ramon                                                       85.0            18,874
45.    Taboge                                                           8.0             4.314
Subtotal                                              938.8           606.997
Protected Zones
46.    Cabecar                                                           bi b/
47.    Caraigres                                                       2658            18,644
48.    Corro Is Carpintera                                             28.1            12,467
49.    Corroo do Atenas                                                14.8             7,712
60.    Cerros de Escazu                                                86.2            20,600
61.    Cerron Nera                                                     19.4            10,462
52.    Cuenca del Rio Tula                                             81.0            16,717
68.    El Choyote                                                      18.4             7,228
64.    El Rodeo                                                        21.6            11,648
t6.    Ouacimo y Pocoel                                                47.2            26,454
56.    Gueneceste                                                      81.0            48,681
67.    La Cangroja                                                     19.6            10,570
58.    La Solve                                                        16.0             8,089
69.    Los Tables                                                      81.0            16,717
International Boundary                                         26.0            14,021
60.    Pacunre                                                         70.4            87,965
61.    Quitirrlsl                                                        b/                b/
62.    RIo Crande                                                      15.8             8,620
68.    Rio Sombrero                                                    88.0            17,798
64.    Rio Tiraibi                                                     11.8             6,868
66.    Tivires                                                         23.6            12,727
66.    Turruberos                                                      32.8            17,418
Subtotal                                              598.0           819 787
Total                                               8      162_ 1_70_000
aJ     Costs include the clearing of a 4 meter right-of-wey around the perimetr, boundary survey
costs, and implanting concrete arkers oach 200 metors.
k/     No boundary demarcation necessary.



- 93 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
Table 3.  Demarcation Program (Cont.)
Boundary
Perimeter
Requiring         Bank
Demarcation    Financing a/
(Km)            (US$)
Indigenous Reserves
Bajo Chirrip6                                          130          70,620
Alto Chirrip6                                          220         119,511
Matambd                                                 16            8,692
Guatuso                                                 24          13,038
Quitirrisi                                              14            7,605
Zapat6n                                                26           14,124
Talamanca Bribri                                       140          76,053
Talamanca Cabecar                                      110          59,756
Tayni                                                   80          43,460
Telire                                                110           59,756
Cocles                                                  28          15,211
Barbilla                                                19          10,322
Yarr6s                                                 140          76,053
Salitre                                                 70          38,026
Cabagra                                                130          70,620
Boruca                                                  60          32,594
Terraba                                                 70          38,026
Curr6                                                   65          35,310
Coto Brus                                               35          19,013
Abrojo-Montezuma                                        14            7,605
Conte Burica                                            65          35,310
Guaymi de Osa                                           30          16,297
Total                                          1,596          867,000
a/   Costs include the clearing of a 4 meter right-of-way around the
perimeter, boundary survey costs, and implanting concrete markers each
200 meters.



.4 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scope of Group Methodology for Extension Assistance
1.          The initiation of an extension group methodology involves several
key operational stepst (a) the formation of interdisciplinary teams at the
regional level;" (b) the training of those teams in the group methodology to
be employed and in the survey technique; (c) the conduct of the survey of
farmers in each region to identify current needs and interests of farmers by
subregion and develop a strategy for assistance (para. 2); (d) an overall plan
for the provision of extension, including the targeting of specific groups and
identification of priority areas for technology transfer and research
(para. 3); (e) the assignment of individual extension agents to each group,
and the training of agents in the group methodology process (para. 4); and
(f) implementation of the group approach by the agents, with the support of
the interdisciplinary team and other subject matter specialists.
2.          The survey iwould define the current status of farmers in the area
and the existence and potential for group formation. Groups (either pre-
established or newly formed) to be worked with in the first phase will be
selected based on their readiness for assistance, and the extent to which
members share common concerns.
3.          The group methodology is both farmer-centered and problem-
centered. The group will meet with the extension agent on a regular basis to
identify, discuss and address the current priority agricultural and natural
resource issues being confronted by its members. The extension agent will
assist in this assessment and give advice on production activities.
Therefore, the extension agent will be required to adjust his or her approach
to one that engenders farmer participation in the identification and analysis
of common problems or opportunities, in addition to providing divert technical
input to farmers. Furthermore, demonstration plots would be located directly
on farmers' fields. The extension agent must keep in close contact with
subject matter specialists available in MAG and in other research institutions
to help respond to the specific technical needs of the group.
4.          A key to the success of the program is that each extension agent
receive intensive training in this new role and in the skills needed to
successfully conduct a participative group process. Skills to be taught in
the two-week interactive course will include: (a) agenda-setting with groups;
(b) techniques for managing and guiding group discussion; and (c) group
problem-solving and planning methods. These courses will also be structured
to provide agents with a wide exposure to the resources directly available to
him or her within the region. A follow-up session will be held three months
after the agent has begun working with a number of groups to help review the
experience and identify ways to strengthen the assistance being provided.
1/    These teams will include subject matter specialists and senior extension
agents from MAG, IDA and CNP.



LOSIA IIICA
AIGRIULIURAL SECtON IVESTHENI AM ISITUTWAt DEYELOPIET PIOJECT
Table t  terch wnd Extesion Cmownent
Private Iechnical ssistance (PlTAVucher Pilot PrEgrE
Project Year                                         At Project
_ _ _                           _ _   __._                                       coqtetion
1            2            3            4            5            6           7          C
Now Fwar Entering the Pilot Program                      1,000         1,500        1,500        2.000        2,500        2.500        3.00       _14,00
farmers Exiting the         Ty"O 100                                                                            700          900        1,100         2,900
Program 
rogT7ype 11                                                           ZOO          400          500           600        1710
Cuwnstive timber of Farmers                              1,000         2.500        4,000        6,000        8,500       11_000       14,000 
farmers teaInilrg in the Program                         1.000         2,Soo        4,000        5,500        6,900      _6000          9,4001
Wtsit$/
Type I Farmers                                                                                                                            year)
(Cuiber by Entry Group)                            700          1,000        1,000        1,400        1,500        1,500        2,000            19
700        1,000        1,000        1,400        1,SOO        2,000            10
700        1,000        1,000        1.400        1,500             5o
400          600         500           700             S
100         200           200             5
300          500           5o0          600        1,000        1,000       100              6
Type 11 Farmers  /                                              300          500          500           600        1,000        1,000             6
(luiber by Entry Group)                                                        300          500          500          600         1,000             3
100         200          200           200            3
Total #uiber of Vouchers                                8,800        21,800       30,400       40,900        49,200      54,900        67,600       273,600
Total Value of Vouchers 3/                                132           327          457          614          738          823         1,014        4,105
(USS'000)
Extensionists Assisting the Progrm                          15           25           30            35           40           45           50 _o_
Ratio farfmer to Extensionist                             67:1         100:1        134:1        157 1        172:1         179:1        188:1
_r      Type I farmers (high intemsity assistanee level) would receive 10 vc chers (IA visits) per year for the first two years. From years 3 to 5 after entering the
program, they would continue receiving assistance at a rate of 5 visits per year (S vouchers) comaencing to graduste at year 4 (60i   of the group)  nd cempleting
graduation after five years within the program (the remaining 40X of the group).
nlype It farmers (mediua/low intensity assistance level) would receive 6 vouchers per year during the first two years of the progr  . From yar 3 to S, after
entering the progrm, ther wtuld contimee receiving assistance at a rate of 3 visits (vouchers) per year. At yesr four freu the datge of entry 60o  of the grmp
graduates, ad the renmining 40X at the end of their fifth year in the program.
_/      the vatue of each voucher is estimated at the equivalent of USS15.00.



COSTA RUC
IMRCULTURAL SECTCR INVESTH    AND INSTITUTIONL DEVELOPMNDT POJECT
Table 2. Research and Exeension Comonent
Private Technical Assistance Voucher 'Pilot Prorem
1   1    2      3        |    *                 S          |    6|7Project                    Totals
(Prentages)    1                                                                  [
Back                  10 lOX           OOS            0               60X             401              20X             102              *2X
Govero                  ox              OX            lOX             20X             40X              60X             70X              412
Producers               OX              OX            lOS             20X             202              20X             202              172
CostShares        __i            I -                              I               I               I
Bank                132,000         327,000         365,000        368,000          295,000          165,000          101,000        1,753,000
GoverA°nt               0               0            46,000        123,000          295,000          493,000          710,000        11,667,000
Producers               0               0            46,000        123,000          148,000          165.000          203,000         685,000
Total Cost          112,000         327,000         457,000        614,000          738,000          823,000        1,014,000        4,105,000
0S 
ow
0
0%
LO
w



COSTA RICA
ACRJC1JLlVRAL Ii4YETEWT AMe INSTITVIISIRAL. DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation Component
Land Ttling - Cost S_um"r
Years                                                    Total
Land Titling               un2tco. UnitC                                                                             of         Cost
(US$)           1             2             a             4             SU"; to                    (US11
A.  Aerial Photegrophy Ceos              I_/A             -             -             -             -                                          -
(acquired under land ase
clasaifiectlon end Soll
Eroelon Control Progrm
through ItC  procedures)
D.  Ortbepbeto mapping                314S/icm            0          1,600            0             0                       3,600        500,000
(OrtUophoto maps would bo
provided at 1l10,000 ocale to
serve as   bs tor land
tenure regulsrlztleo for an
area   of    836,000   be)__ _ _ _ _                                                    __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
C.  Land Tenure Identifiestion         93/ha         16,000         63,000      108,000       108,000        41,000       336,000      1,060.000
(covering 36o,000 ha)
0.  Cadastre Establishment and        321/parcel      2,400          4,700        7,000         4,700         4,200        23,t00        SoOO,0
Land Titling for 23,500
parcels                         _______.____
E.  Cadestral Date Proceeiong          45000/            0            5.S          4.5           1                            11        490,000
Equipment  to provide a            unit                                                                                                          <
compuerized land Informatle
system and property registry
unit comprleing hardware and
sottware digitizer, plottet
and printer at US843,000/ualt
and Survey Equipment
(theodolites, stadia rods and
approprlate filld qwupmsnt
for proeprty damrcatlon)                                                                                    _
F.  Consultants/Technical            t12,000/mo.        6.6           25.5           29          26.6          8.3 a                   1,SO,O0O
ATsbsIsa      (consultant
services for cadastral
establisbment and
computrlzed land registry
system)                         ______
O.  Agricultural Derelopmnt            S25 000/           2              a           12              a            3           26        60,000
Plans                              unit
H.  Training Pro"gmS  00oooo/                             1            1.4          2.6              1            1             7        350,000
- Land Tenure Idsntificatlon
- Cadastre Establisbant and
Property Registry      ___ ________                                                               _ __ ___
Total                                                _ _                                                                   4,700,000



- 98 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 7
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation Component
Settlement Consolidation Sub-Component
Rural Road Infrastructure
A. DescriDtion
1.          The proposed component would support the development of the
selected settlements through the implementation of a rural roads improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance program coordinated with the simultaneous
agricultural and other social and economic development efforts. The component
would provide fort (a) the improvement and rehabilitation of approximately
355 km of existing rural roads in IDA settlements to be consolidated under the
project; (b) periodic and routine maintenance of the referred roads; and
vi, related consulting services for engineering, supervision and training to
carry out required environmental assessment. The selected roado would provide
improved access to rural areas to reduce costs and increase production and,/or
to population centers which require improved access for the efficient
provision of social services and for better access to employment
opportunities. The component also promotes efficient cost-sharing efforts by
encouraging community participation in maintaining the community
infrastructure.
B. Costs
2.          The total cost of this project component is estimated at US$11.61
million equivalent, excluding taxes and including price a.id physical
contingencies of about US$2.3 million as shown in Table 2. Physical
contingencies were estimated at 102 of the base costs. The project component
would require about seven years to be executed with an average rate of road
rehabilitation in the order of 51 km per year. This estimate is in line with
the experience of the ongoing Agricultural Development Project for the
Atlantic Region. Rehabilitation and improvement costs are estimated at about
US$16,000 per km, with the initial roads costing less because of the higher
incidence of the quick pay-off, low-cost spot improvement works that will be
undertaken during the first phase of the project. Periodic and routine
maintenance have been estimated to cost US$1500 and US$680 per km per year,
respectively. Details of these costs are presented in Attachment 1.
Consulting services were estimated at US$0.55 million including 62 of the
civil works for engineering and 82 for supervision.
3.          On the basis of their potential for generating agricultural
incomes, IDA identified a first phase program comprising 35 settlements for
consolidation (Table 1). In terms of road infrastructure, the consolidation
effort includes the rehabilitation and improvement of about 235 km of roads.
A field inspection showed that the works to be included in the first phase of
ti.e program would vary from approximately US$5000 per km to US$20000 per km,
with an average of US$16,000 per km. These works vaz? from limited spot
improvements to major rehabilitation, upgrading surface drainage, and
replacing existing bridge structures. The first phase will have a higher



- 99 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 7
incidence of the low-cost quick pay-off spot improvements works. Thus, their
average cost will be below the US$18500 per km estimated for the seco,nd phase
of the program.
4.          Civil works for road rehabilitation and improvement will be
executed by contract under MOPT's responsibility. It was estimated that 20 km
of roads would be rehabilitated during the first year program (year 2 of the
project). This takes into consideration the time needed for Congress'
approval of the loan and the lead time for procuring the works. The annual
workload should increase in the following years to about 80 km by year 4, with
a total of 355 km during the project execution period. These estimates take
into account the experience under the ongoing Atlantico Project (Ln 2764-CR).
C. Rural Roads Maintenance
5.          The burden of maintaining most of Costa Rica's extensive road
network falls within MOPT. The Ministry is nominally responsible for the
maintenance of only about a fifth of the country's 35,000 km of roads (about
7,000) of which about 3,300 are paved. The municipalities, which are
responsible for the Cantonal roads, cannot maintain them due to inadequate
financial and technical resources. As a result, MOPT is pressed to use part
of the resources appropriated for the maintenance of the national roads to do
urgent work on the Cantonal roads. Since the available resources are
insufficient, neither road system is satisfactorily maintained.
6.          To address this problem, the Government is implementing a two-
prong strategy. As a first step, the Government will implement a program for
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the cantonal road system which ensures,
in the medium-run, a clear division of the resources allocated to the national
and the cantonal networks. This measure, however, does not provide a
permanent solution to shield MOPT from the pressures of attending to the needs
of the cantonal roads on the basis of other than economic criteria. Thus, the
second part of the strategy calls for the gradual delegation to the
Municipalities of the responsibilities that the law confers on them in regard
to maintenance of the Cantonal road network. An existing US AID study,
coupled with planned IDB assistance and an ongoing gravel and earth road
maintenance program being carried with GTZ's cooperation, should provide a
solid basis on which to develop detailed institutional and financial proposals
to assist the Municipalities in discharging their road maintenance
responsibilities. To this end, the Government developed an action plan for
the gradual decentralization of Cantonal roads maintenance. The plan, in
particular, calls for increasing the participation of the community and local
associations in road maintenance.
7.          The road maintenance component of this project is in line with the
current Government strategy described above and is supported by the Transport
Sector Project (Loan 3205-CO). Labor-based routine maintenance (i.e. cleaning
of culverts and ditches, remotion of vegetation, etc.), will be carried out by
members of the community with materials and tools provided by IDA. A
specialized trainer will visit each settlement for about a week to familiarize
the communit, on the necessary organization and techniques of road works. The
trainer will be a member of the Agricultural Extension Group. This project
component will be fully financed with local resources.



- 100 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 7
8.          Each community will enter into an agreement with MOPT to ensure
proper road maintenance. While the former will be committed to provide
adequate routine maintenance of the road, the latter will be responsible for
the more equipment-based periodic interventions. These works will be executed
by contract, in line with the Government policy of gradual reduction of MOPT's
force account operations. The loan will provide funds for the financing of
periodic maintenance in order to ensure the benefits of the investment until
the Governments puts in place a suitable mechanism for maintaining rural
roads.
D. Consulting Services
9.          Engineering and supervision of civil works have historically been
carried out by MOPT. However, since budgetary constraints have resulted in
staff reductions, sufficient capability may not be available in MOPT to the
extent needed to properly carry out these works. Thus, consultants will be
used, when needed to complement and amplify in-house capabilities. These
consultancy services would be financed through the proposed loan.
E. Economic Evaluation
10.         The problem of poor access to the rural population has been
identified as one of the main constraints for economic development. Because
of its comprehensive approach, the types of benefits to be generated by the
road works in this project would vary with the specific needs of the
communities to be served. For most of the subprojects, the benefits from
lower transport costs, more reliability, and better access to services,
technical assistance and farm inputs would be realized in the form of improved
use of existing cultivated lands, and reduced losses and higher yield, as
measured by the incremental net value of additional production. Similarly,
is expected that in many cases land use will be optimized. In addition, otner
benefits, more difficult to quantify, should be realized as outlying small
communities with limited production potential become better integrated with
the main road network and receive better access to social services (e.g.
education and health services) as well as to job opportunities in other areas
with greater economic potential.
11.         The economic merits of the improvement and upgrading works to be
included in the first phase of the project were calculated using the Rural
Roads Evaluation Model developed by AID and implemented for previous IDB and
World Bank projects. This methodology, based in the quantification of the
producer surplus, confirmed the eligibility of 235 km of roads with rates of
return on investment ranging from 132 to above 502 (Table 1). The analysis
was based ons
a.    an investment life-time of seven years;
b.    routine and annualized periodic maintenance costs provided by MOPT
and applied for the seven-year period;
c.    population, existing production and potential cultivable area
estimated according to IDA's settlement program; and
d.    projected yields, inputs costs, parallel investments and prices.



- 101 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 7
d.    projected yields, inputs costs, parallel investments and prices.
12.         Although the principal criterion for accepting road work for
financing under the project is the effect upon production increases, it has
been apparent, through the preparation of the project, that there are
settlements with high population concentration but with limited agricultural
or other natural resource potential. The roads are one element in a
coordinated program to improve the standard of living of these communities.
Hany of the benefits of these roads are difficult to calculate, such as access
to health and educational services and to employment opportunities outside the
immediate zones of influence.
13.         For the reasons stated above, a further review of roads
subprojects with an estimated rate of return below 12Z is to be carried out to
determine whether substantial population would benefit in terms of improved
access to social services and employment. Such roads would be considered
*social* roads. The number of roads with a predominantly social justification
to be financed under the project should not exceed 152 of the road improvement
and rehabilitation component, with each road not exceeding a cost of civil
works of US$650 per person served. This indicator is based on assumptions
regarding potential increases in community earning through outside employment,
some increases in the value of local production, and the potential magnitude
of other social benefits compared with the average cost of rural road
improvements, as calculated in similar Bank projects in Latin America. For an
average 7 km road, the minimum population required would be about 180 persons
with higher population required for higher cost or longer road sections. The
initial road program does not include investments in 'social' roads.



- 102 -
Annex 8
Page 5 of 7
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1. Civil Works Summarm (Roads and Brldaesa t
Rehab.   Rohab.
Dirt     Gravol   Bridge
Road     Road      Constr.      Unit        Total    Cost/         IRR
Settlemnt                 (kI)      (k!,)      (M)         Cost        Cost     Benofit       (
Central Region
1. La Puente                         0.60                 18,184        9,C81      2.201       103.38
2. Santiago                          8.80                  6,607       64,000      2.098        84.78
8. EnseRanza                         8.40                  8,107       20,760     -5.964   2.38 E+22%
4. Blanco y Negro                    3.00                  4,847       18,000     -3.796   2.47 E#18%
S. Cinchona b/
Chorot9ea  Region
1. Coopabel-n                        0.70       5.00      24,000       21,000      7.491        87.96
2. Cascada                  2.60                           4,850       11,000      4.009        63.76
B. Vital Vargas            4.70      1.80                  7,460       44,650      1.790         26.30
4. CoopeJusamp              2.00                           4,780        9,600      1.616         17.74
S. Coopesardinal            6.60                           4,860       24,000      1.960        83.64
6. Pavona                   0.70               14.00      48,800       42,000      8.580         6e.01
7. Curiae                   2.00                           4,800        9,600      1.957         24.63
8. San Isidro                        4.00                 10,700       43,000      2.346         40.89
9. Portagolpe               8.00                6.00      10,850  __i0oo           1.806         21.35
Brunea Realon
1. Ouaycara                3.00                            4,860       18,000     26.672        168.93
2. Ceibo                    9.00                           4,850       89,000      8.565        153.01
8. Balzer                   2.60                           4,860       11,000      9.342        69.67
4. Santligo                 0.80                           5,700        4,600     17.703        307.83
s. Alpha                    8.20                           4,850       86,000      2.999         30.62
6. Coronado                          1.00                  4,850        4,350     68.708   1.86 E+18%
7. Cristo Rey              4.50      8.60      '5.00      14,120      118,080      4.084        S3.10
8. Fatims                   2.50     1.50                  4,850       17,000      8.863         80.04
Region Huetar Atiantica
1. Imperio                  4.60     6.00      80.00      22,600      216,000      8.998         39.16
2. Hnos. Bennet             1. 0     2.60                 14,000       60,000      3.749         77.81
8. Milagro                  6.20               18.00      24,000      126,000      1.114         14.40
4. Proms&                            2.00       6.00      28,500       47,000      1.648         24.29
S. Nueva Vira3ini        8.20    16.40      65.00       19,600     SS4.000       1.842        32.06
Rogion Huotar Nort.
1.  Santa Rosa              8.60                          11,800       41,c010     1.991         29.01
2.  Sonors                           7.50                 18,000       96,000      1.128         15.82
8.  Californis Tico         3.40     2.60                  6,200       81,400      4.871         57.82
4. Tre- Rosales                      6.00      10.00      84,400      118,080      2.400         87.71
5. Suerte                            5.80                  9,100       46,000      1.800         22.23
6. Fine* Agus                        9.00                  4,860       89,000      2.641         60.02
7. San AleJo                        11.50      15.00      28,800      869,000      1.078         18.68
8. Juanilama               18.00               15.00      16,600      298,000      8.594         51.14
9. Enterito                 4.00               12.00      19,000       76,000      4.870         49.06
10. Rubi                   11.40               86.00      18,300      162,000      2.104         28.72
11. Victorla                        13.00       9.00      11,200      146,000      1.169         18.18
*/  Includes Type I and ldentiflod Type II roads.
bt Do not qualify for environmental reasons.



COStA RICA
AGRICULTUtAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELWPMENT PROJECt
Table 2.  Land Titing end Settleent Consolidation Comnent
*ettlement, Consolidtion Roada 
DeteIled Cout
(USS)
I =              -= - I               T 7Quantity  Unit          gota, Cost In USt
Unit                                            Cost                                   __         07   Tots _
UnOi   02 03  04 06 0    07  Total   01-07    01    02    03    04                  06    o6      07   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Roads
RehSb. A Improw. Typ I        b           0   20  S0 80  30  20  0   180   15.20   0.0 304.0  760.0 912.0 468.0  304.0   0.0  27a.0
Rehab. A Iprov. Type I       km          0    0   0  36 40  60  s0  175   17.00   0.0  0.0   0.0  696.0 680.0  850.0 160.0  2976.0
Consultants - Studies      Lump-m             -    -    -    -    -    -    -  -    23.0  77.0  77.0  77.0  77.0  77.0  77.0 , 486.0
Subtotal                                                                            23.0 381.0 8SW.0 1t34.0 1213.0 1231.0  927.0 6198.0
Total Investment Costs                                                              23.0 381.0 837.0 1584.0 1213.0 1231.0 927.0 6196.0
II. Recurrent Costs 
A. Roads
Periodic Maintenance       Lump-suu_                                                 0.0  34.5  160.0  265.0 861.0 498.6 612.0  1939.0
Routtno Maintenance        Lump-um      ,                                              0.0  11.6  60.0  88.5  122.0  160.6  199.0  631.5
Supervleion Type I         Lump-sum       -       -    -    -    -   -        -       0.0  15.2  38.0  46.6  22.8  16.2   0.0  136.B
Superviulon Type It        Lump-um        -        -    -    -    -   -    -    -     0.0  0.0   0.0  29.7  34.0  42.6  42.6  148.7
Supervlsion Maintenance    Loup-am                                                  0.0   1.7   7.5  13.2  19.0  24.8   30.6   96.9
Subtotal                                !     .   -                                 0.0 62.9 246.5  442.1 578.8  739.5  814.1  2953.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               0.0 62.9 246.5  442.1  578.8  739.  184.1  2953.0
Total                                                                               23.0 443.9 1082.5 2028.1 1791.8 1970.5 1811.1  9149.0
Notes Unit costs scaled by 1000.0; volues scaled by 1000.0
0,
I eb 
14^
0



-  104  -                        Annex a
Page 7 of 7
Attachment 1
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT A-D INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Rural Roads Maintenance Costs
1.          In order to provide an approximate estimate of the costs of
maintaining typical rural roads in Costa Rica, the analysis shown below has
been carried out by the Bank and MOPT. The basic assumptions used in
determining quantities and costs are as follows:
a.    typical rural road section, 10 km long, in average condition at
the present time, is taken as the model. Climatic, geographical
and topographic conditions usually found in rolling countryside in
Costa Rica are assumed, as are equipment, labor and methods
normally used for this type of work in Costa Rica;
b.    local communities will help in carrying out rural road maintenance
by contributing their labor. Nevertheless, cost estimates are
based on a minimum wage of 0 1200 per day;
c.    the cost of renting a 10 cu m capacity dump truck is taken as
q 5500 per hour. Trucks are assumed to be hand loaded when used
for routine maintenance (i.e., spot graveling); and
d.    prices used in calculations are based in cost of labor, materials
and equipment as of April 1991.
Routine Maintenance
(a)   Cleaning ditches and drainage structures; filling
small potholes; grass cutting and removal of
vegetation; and removal of obstructions, etc.
- Prior to Rainy Season                                        180,000
- After Rainy Season                                           300,000
(b)   Slide removal; repair of erosion damage, etc.                   60,000
(c)   Spot regraveling at 3Z of road length                          250,000
TOTAL                                                          790,000
Cost per km - z 79,000 - US$681
Periodic Maintenance
(a)   Leveling of existing road surface and re-                      105,000
establishment of ditches
(b)   Excavation of gravel from the borrow pit                       575,000
(c)   Transport of gravel (average haul - 12 km)                     840,000
(d)   Spreading, leveling and compacting gravel layer on             220,000
road surface
TOTAL                                                        1,740,000
Cost per km -  ! 174,000 - US$1500                              _______



-  105  -                       Annex 9
-  105  -               ~~~~Page l of 9
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Titling and Settlement Conoolidation Component
IDA Settlement Consolidation Subcomvonent
Community Facilities and Services
1.        Comwoonent Descri2tion.  The component would finance the
construction of water supply systems, schools, teacher houses and multi-
purpose community rooms in existing settlements which lack the most basic
social facilities and services and where the absence of such facilities has
emerged as a major obstacle to the consolidation and completion of the
settlement process. The program would be carried out in two phases: a first
*base which would include 17 settlements with already well identified and
quantified needs and would benefit a total population of about 3,100 settlers,
and a second chase that would include other settlements--of which 8 have
tentatively been identified already--with needs that will be determined on the
basis of the criteria used for the definition of the program of the first
phase.
2.        The First Phase Proaram (¢ 144 million or US$1.3 million
equivalent) would finance the provision of:
a.   water supply services to settlement centers either from source
catchments, if sources are located within a reasonable distance and
offer water of satisfactory quality, or from on-site boreholes. (In
those cases where both solutions are available, the final decision
on the choice of the solution has been and/or will be made on the
basis of least cost considerations). The works financed under the
program would include the production and pumping installations
(tube-wells or river intakes), as well as the basic distribution
network within the settlement center area, and technical acces-
sories such as water tanks, standpipes, etc. Average costs are
estimated at ¢ 2.5 million (US$22,000 equivalent) per settlement.
Installations would be designed according to the specifications of
the National Water Company (para. 11)1
b.   classrooms consisting in all but a few cases of one-classroom buil-
dings with a usable area of about 54 m2 and intended for 40 pupils.
Fixed basic pedagogical equipment such as blackboards, etc. would
also be included. (Furniture such as pupil desks will be provided
by the benefitting community). Sanitary services would be provided
through pit latrines separately located on the school premises.
Estimated unit cost per classroom (including sanitary facilities)
would be about ¢ 1.7 million (US$14,500 equivalent). Construction
designs would be prepared in accordance with the standards set by
the Ministry of Education (para. 11);
c.   teacher houses with a usable area of about 42 m2 and including 2
bedrooms, a living room, kitchen and internal sanitary facilities.
Estimated unit cost would be about ¢ 600,000 (US$5,200 equivalent);
and



-  106  -                      Annex 9
Page 2 of 9
d.   multi-purpose conmunity rooms with an area of about 90 m2 and
including areas for the provision of ambulatory medical services,
cooking facilities and storage rooms for school meal preparation,
as well a meeting areas for community events, adult education, etc.
As in the case of the classrooms, sanitary services would be
provided in the form of externally located pit latrines. Estimated
unit cost would be about ¢ 4.1 million (US$35,000 equivalent).
3.        Based on availability and completeness of basic data (population,
etc.), assessment of agricultural development capacity and potential, and
compliance with minimal requirements regarding environmental impact such as
location at a minimum distance of 10 kms from natural reserves or reservations
for indigenous populations, the following 17 settlements were selected for the
First Phase Program:
Region Chorotega:
1    Colonia del Valle
2    Vital Vargas
Region Brunca
3    Los Angeles
4    Giva
5    Cristo Rey
6    Rio Coto
7    Santiago
Region Huetar Atlantico
a    Agrimaga
Region Huetar Norte
9    Sonora
10 Tres Rosales
11 Suerte
12 San Alejo
13 San Jorge
14 Los Lagos
15 La Victoria
16 San Isidro
17 Santa Rosa
4.        The second Phas. Program (0 190 million, or US$1.6 million
equivalent) would finance the provision of the same type of facilities and
services to settlements which have either already been tentatively identified
on the basis of the selection criteria used for the First Phase Program,or
will be identified in the course of project implementation. In addition, the
Second Phase Program would help improve water supply conditions in some of the
larger settlements by financing the drilling of additional boreholes in areas
other than the settlement center with a view to putting access to potable
water within a 1.5 to 2 km walking distance of the plot holders. Moreover,
the second Phase Program would finance the construction of classrooms, teacher
^EW  ?" t4-vru-=se co nunitv vooms in other settlements where the lack of



-  107  -                        Annex 9  _
Page 3 of 9
any such facility would be identified as a major problem for securing adequate
living conditions for the settlers, and, thus, could be considered as a
significant obstacle for the successful development of the settlement.
5.        However, given the eomewhat experimental nature of the settlement
consolidation component, the proposed strategy for the implementation of the
Second Phase Program would be to defer any decision on the final selection of
the settlements and/or the size and opecific nature of the works to be
provided until the completion of a mid-implementation review of the project.
This review would allow asoessing the performance of the individual
subcomponents, undertaking the possibly required technical and financial
adjustments, and, if advisable, redefining part of the program and
reallocating resources accordingly.
6.        Settlements tentatively identified for the Second Phase Program
include the following:
Region Brunca
18   Ceibo
Region Huetar Norte
19   Juanilama
20   El Rubi
21   Samba
22   El Progreso
23   Eeterito
24   Tres Amigos
25   California Tico
7.        Component Cost. Total base cost of the component including both
the First Phase and the Second Phase Programs has been estimated at
¢ 334 million, or US$2.9 million equivalent (at an exchange rate of
US$1 = ¢ 115). Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% for all
subcomponents and would amount to ¢ 33 million (US$290,000 equivalent). Price
contingencies which total V 435 million (US$50,000 equivalent) have been
estimated at 3.4% annually in accordance with OD 6.50 of November 1990, on the
basis of the following disbursement assumptions:
Implementation
Years                          1     2     3     4      5     6    7
% disbursements               10    20    20    20    15    10    5
8.        Total cost of the component would amount to ¢ 417 million, or
US$3.8 million equivalent. Civil works would represent about 80% of total
component expenditure, the remaining 20% consisting of goods, essentially
supplies for water supply systems). Given the basic nature of the works to be
implemented, the foreign exchange share of the component can be estimated at
about 23% of total cost. Bank financing would cover about 65% of total
component cost, or US$2.4 million.



-  108  -                       Annex 9
Page 4 of 9
Summarv Cost
(in US$ and %)
Total      _         Local    Foreian
Water Supply Systems          1,084   100      759   70       325   30
Education Facilities            939   100      750   80       189   20
Social Facilities             1,607   100    1,285   80       321   20
Total           3,630   100    2,794   77       835   23
9.        Procure-ment Arranaogents.  The technical nature and cost of the
works included in the component is unlikely to elicit interest from foreign
contractors. Consequently, works would be carried out under LCB procedures
using standard bidding documents agreed upon with the Bank. To facilitate
implementation and supervision, works would be grouped into regional or sub-
regional packages with a view of having all works in a given settlement execu-
ted, to the extent feasible, by a sole contractor, though the latter could, if
needed, subcontract the execution of specific works to specialized contractors
and/or suppliers.
10.       Prior to any bidding IDA would submit to the Bank for review the
bidding documents together with the following support documentation:
a.   final design studies of the works to be executed, including
technical specifications as well as detailed quantity and cost
estimates;
b.   certification of the compliance of designs with seismic resistance
standards;
c.   mapping of the settlement at a scale of 1/10,000;
d.   topographical survey of the settlement center area at a scale of
1/1,000 showing the implantation of the facilities to be built in
relation to already existing buildings and infrastructure;
e.   proof of the actual availability to IDA of the plots designated for
use as settlement center; and
f.   status of occupation of the settlement indicating total population,
school age population and expected population growth at the 5 and
10 year horizon.
11.       Xinol-aentation. Operation and MaintenanMe.  All works would be
carried out under the overall responsibility IDA, which would prepare bidding
documents, organize biddings, award contracts, and coordinate and supervise
construction works. Final designs and bidding documents for water supply
works would be prepared by IDA in collaboration with the National Water
Company (AyA--Inetituto Costarricense de Agua y Alcantarillado). Likewise,
final designs and bidding documents for classrooms and teacher houses would be
prepared by IDA in collaboration with the Ministry of Education (MEP--
Ninisterio de Educaci6n Pdblica). To this effect, IDA has entered with both



-  109   -Annex 9
Page 5 of 9
institutions into a specific interinstitutional technical assistance agreement
(Convenio de Cooperacifn Interinstitucional) signed prior to Board
presentation (para. 2.84 of 8AR). In addition to the conditions of assistance
in preparatory studies, these agreements would specify: (a) the technical and
financial conditions under which AyA would ensure the periodic maintenance of
the different water supply installations; and (b) the conditions under which
MEP would ensure the provision of teaching personnel.
12.       Primary responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
facilities and installations would rest with the benefitting communities.
Technical and financial modalitiee, and timing of involvement of IDA, the
communities and other institutional entities was defined as part of a specific
Action Plan contained on IDA's Statement of Policies (para. 2.88 of SAR).



-     110   -Annex  9
Page 6 of 9
COSA Pgir
AlRICULtURAL 3EtTO  IMWUTSEUT AM  INSTITUTNONAL DEVELOPUNT PROJECT
tablo  1.  IDA t  ttl_nte   C   nmitv Uacillties and  ervcs
Emainmnt Proorm
Water     t|                           Education                  Social
Nulti-
So|Trce            B | rhatole       Cltsaroo   k      | Teacher            Purpose
House              Room
Settl _mnt.:
Progra  Phas  I
...............
Reion Choroteg
I          Clotnfe del Vetls                                 0                0     (3)           a                 0
2          Vital Vyra                                        0                o      (1) '                          a
Region Brunco
3          Los Angeles                  0     (0.6)                                                                 o
4          CGive                                                                     (1)          0                 0
S          Cristo Remy                                                                            o                 0
6          Rio Coto                                          0                0     (1)                             0 0
7          sntiao                                            0                0      (3)          0                 0
Region Nuetar Atlantico
a          Agrime                                            o                o     (1)           o                 a
Region Nuetor Mortt
9          Somrs                                             0                0      l)           00
10          Tree Roales                                                                            o                 o
It          Suerte                                                             0     Cl)                    0        0
12          San  oJo 0                                                                 )           0                 0
Is          g NJorge                    0     (2.0)                            0     (1)0
14          Loe Ltag0                                                          0 ))                0                 0
Is          Victoria                                          o00
16          San Isidro                  0      (2.0)                           0     tS)                             0
17          Sant n   Rosa                                     0                0     ")            0                 0
Progrm Phse 2
...............
Region Orurc
1I          Ceibo
Region Huetar Norte
19          Juinil t
20          i* i.                                    -                  to be determined )..*----.
21           8*
22          Progreso
23          Eaterito
24          Tree Amigo
25          Californoi Tico
1/          Length in Km.
H# Muebr of classroom.



- 111 -
AnnaeiS
Page 7 of 9
Tcbte 1. IRA tttlentc - Cinmltv  Eaelits *nd Aerviels (Cent.)
Motor Supply       |       EdLcatIoan         'Social 
Total
Source     | Orholo        ttCaroom    Teacher       Purpose
I                      was lrxe    oon 
Settiasonts:
Progra Piase I:
I        totenfo dot ntl                   a2,5 U14,      5,02S,000    1,Z.OO000    4,050,000  12,792,000
2         VCtolat Vargs V,O91,0                           1,676,000     600,000   4*050,000  8.217.000
legio Orunce
3         Los Angeles           909,000      2,52000      1,e76,000     600,000    4,050000  4,9"59000
Give                                      2,0        ,7.0          0  0    4,050,000  8,866,000
5         Cristo Nty                         2,957.000                  600.000    4,05,000  7,607,000
6         Rio Coto                           2 826.000    1 676 000     600,000    4.050,000  9,152,000
7         Santfogo                           2,600000    5.02t000    1,240000    4, 050,000  12,78.000
tegion Nuster Atltntito
o        oAgriig9                            2,523,000    1,676,000     600,000    4,050,000  8,5U9,000
le"ion "ustar Worte
9         SoNero                             2,079,000    1.676.000     600,000   4,050,000   ,405,00
10        Trees aResae             30127.000                             600.000    4 050,000  7,777,000
17        $tSurte                             2,193,000    1,676,000     600,000   4,050,000  S4,92,000
12Se AleJo                              2,257.000                  600,000   4,050,000   6,907,000
13  Son Joroo   3.U2,000                   ~~~1,676,000   600.000               5.358,000
13        SaLors               3,08,00        3 OA 00      1,676,000     600.coo   4,050,000   9,371,000
i5        Victoria                            z:" O600.000   4.050,000   7.196,000
14        Son sidro            3              2,546,00    1 676.000                4,050,000   8,74.1,000
16        Sant Rossd                          2,600,000    1,676,000     600.00    4,050,000   8,926000
S"total             7,006,000     35,678.000   26,816,000   10,200,000  64,800,000 144,500,000
...........        ......   ............. ...............
Averag Cost
Pro   MfgP     2:                                                                Settltmmnt 0,500.000
legion Srwec
Is        Ceibo                                                                               8.500,SO
Rgion Nator Norte
19        Jumntl_                                                                             8,500.00
20         "I                                                                                   SOOO000
21  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                   8,5~~~~~~~~~~:00,000
22        Progress                                                                            8.500,000
23        laterito                                                                            8,500,000
24         Tes mioos                                                                          8,500,000
25        Califoeri Tito                                                                      8,50,000
Oher wter Sewpty                                                                             80,000,000
Other Eation and Social Facilfties                                                           SO,000,000
Suitotal                                                                         198,000,000
.........                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............
Total ose Cost                                                                   342,500,000
entfwIones Physical (101)                                                         34,250,000
Conti    fie: Price   (3.4% p.o.)                                                 50,050,000
Total Project Cot                                                                426,800,000



-   112   -                                  Annex 9
Pogo 8 of 9
talel 1.  IbA Lsettlente * tcm.mltv Useitlest  *nd Servics (Cent.)
wa.r Bsly                            di cat In               Sociel_      T
Froet " Pb    lt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~uli
Source         j Borhole           Cleasroca       Teacher           Purpose
Rowm
Prg    P9as 1
Celotni dot VWall*                      21. "               43 722           104235         35.217       111,235
2     itas  warga                              664 "17                              .1            35.217        71.-652
toegon Ounce
3          Los Alnetles            790j
4          ofive                                   21, 913             1,576             5,2           n.21          76,922
t2         tt  ZtCristo key                        25.713                                5.217         353217         7.9228
65         Rio Cat                26,l00           22 4l39      .          424,576  1,57  5217         35 217        79589
6T         Ri@ COtOlStiago                         22.609              43.722           10.435         35.217        111.953
.ag ofn Nuster Atl0ntico
*Aorinew                                      2i,939             16,576            5,217         35.317         76,948
Region Muter Norte
9    $nore                                    18.078             16,574            5.1            527           73,067
10        Tr       ees                              27191                                   1           35,2         67,62
11          uaert*                                  19,070             16,576            5,1            35,217       676267
12         Son AL.@e2.                              19,626                               5.217          35.217        604,06
totel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1                                            3.1   6,061n
16         Lagos                                    26,678                                  16,591
13     an orge2213                                               16,574            5,217          35,217        81III'"
15  VictorIa                 22,139              16.576           ~~~~~~        ~~~~~ ~~5.217  35.21  62.576
16         gmn Isidro                                                                                  35,217         77.6137 21
17  Sante E.5                     22,609            ~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~14,576  5.217  35.217     776,10
Sabtotat               60.922          310,243            233,1813          88.69         563,478      1.256,522
P Coe   Phu* 21                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Awrag  Cost
. roE   P  se        se 2:  tySettlowmt                                                                               73.913
18Cerzibo      e"   rf         34Pr                                                                            4 
Region Nwtar #orte
19         Juani oem
20          ".i                                                                                                      73.913
21         Sm                                                                                                        73,913
22         Proreso                                                                                                   73.913
23          Motrito,                                                                                                 73,913
26          free Anios                                                                                                 .3913
25          caeliforei "Tic,                                                                                         73,913
73.913
other waster si.p1y
695,6S2
Other ladwctfon etd 1Soial facilities                                                                               436 753
.......                                                                                               1,721.739
Total B.se cost
wmaaaaaaaaa2,978,261
au.aaauaaa
Cmntlngeniesu Physical (101
Contingenies: Price    (3.4w p.a.)                                                                      297,826
363,913
Total Project Cost                                                                                    3,640,000



- 113 -
Page 9 of 9
Table 1.  IDA _Sttlnents- Cogwunitv FscIt tica srad Service.  (Cont.)
Ecauicimnt Proaram
total       Cultivable        Total     School Age            onalty
Area           Area             Pop.        Pop.          Pop./Cult. Are*
(he)        (ha)   in X       (hzb)    (hab)    In S        (bib/ha)
Settlements:
Program Phase 1:
...............
Region Chorotega
I         Colonis del VaIlt                  671.7       153.0   23          239       72       30           1.6
2          Vital Vargea                      132.0        75.0   57           93       15       16           1.2
Region 9rurnc
3          Los Angoles                       244.3        87.5   36           59       20       34           0.7
4          GLve                              190.2        34.2   18           94       25       27           2.7
5          Cristo Ray                        294.6       172.0   58          252       33       13           1.5
6          Rio Coto                          780.5        84.0   11           64       17       27           0.8
7          Santiago                          163.5        62.5   38          382       74       19           6.1
Region Huetar Attantico
a          Agrimaga                          274.9       140.0   51          167       48       29            1.2
Region Nuetar Norte
9          Sonor                             425.8       204.0    48          99        17       17           0.5
10          Tres Rosales                      702.7       539.0   77          291       78       27           0.5
11          Suerte                            309.1       150.0   49           90       15       17           0.6
12          Son Atejo                         251.3       243.0   97           95       26       27           0.4
13          San Jorge                         975.4       675.0   69          422       94       22            0.6
14          Lagos                             659.0       513.0   78          378       91       24            0.7
15          vIlctoria                         398.1       322.0   81          178      178      100            0.6
16          San lsidro                        203.7       144.0   71          134       23        17           0.9
17          Santa Ross                        147.2       144.9    98         106       30       28           0.7
Subtotal                        6,824.0     3,743.1    53       3,143      856      474           1.1
........                        . ....... . ......       .        . .. .....  ... ... ... .
Progrsm Phase 2:
............... 
Region Brunco
18          Ceibo                             398.2       125.0   31
Region Nueter Morte
19          Jusnitama                         904.9       770.0   85
20          Rubi                              437.8       302.1   69
21          Swmba                             281.4        60.5   21
22          Progreso                          238.1       203.0   85
.U3        fEterito                           202.0       165.0    82
24          Tres Amis                         608.6       400.0    66
25          Californ a Tico                   476.8       207.0    43
Subtota                         3,S547.8    2,232.6    60
,. .......                      .......     .....
Total                          17,195.8    9,718.8              3,143      856
Aversge                                    636.9       360.0    55                            27           0.3



-  114  -                       Annex 10
Page 1 of 13
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Issues Relating to the Liberalization of the Grain Markets v
Introduction
1.          The major grain markets in Costa Rica are distorted in the pursuit
of price stabilization and national self-sufficiency goals. Consejo Nacional
de Produccion (CNP) is the main instrument of intervention and performs the
following functions:
a.    it controls grain imports and exports;
b.    it stores grains and releases them during the year in
order to even out seasonal price variations;
c.    it buys grains from farmers and sells to consumers aL
prices that do not fully reflect regional transport
costs in order to reduce interregional price
variations; and
d.    in conjunction with the Ministry of Economy, it sets
minimum producer prices and maximum consumer prices
through its grain and retail trading operations.
2.          CNP's wholesale market interventions are now limited to beans and
maize, but it influences the prices of other grains through the control of
imports and exports and, to a much lesser extent, through its retail
operations. The Oficina de Arroz also intervenes in the control of domestic
rice prices.
3.          CNP's objectives are to provide consumers and producers with
*stable" and *fair' prices. While a dominating concern is to prevent
excessive private sector profits that might otherwise arise from imperfect
competition in wholesale, retail and seasonal storage activities, especially
in the more remote parts of the country, the concept of fairness also extends
tot (a) providing producers with reasonable prices in relation to their costs
of production; and (b) maintaining affordable food prices for consumers.
These latter two objectives are not easily compatible, and CNP typically has
to subsidize part of the difference between low consumer prices and high
producer prices.
4.          The 'stability' objective encompasses the control of inter-
seasonal as well as inter-year price variation. In the past, equalization of
The analysis presented in this Annex is more fully explained in a paper
entitled 'Should Costa Rica's Grain Markets be Liberalized?", by
Peter Hazell and Rigoberto Stewart, Agriculture and Rural Development
Department, World Bank, January 1991.



- 115 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 13
farm gate and retail prices across regions has also been an important goal.
As in many other countries, stability goals have an additional connotation:
reducing the country's dependence on food imports. Part of the objective of
setting fair prices for producers means setting prices at levels that will
lead to national self-sufficiency in basic foods (especially rice and white
maize).
5.          As a result of CNP's interventions, consumers and producers in
Costa Rica benefit (or lose) from a number of income transfers within the
current foodgrain marketing system. The most important transfers probably
arise from the distortion of average prices from their border prices, but
transfers across regions may also be important. Consumers and producers in
more remote areas effectively gain from subsidized transport costs, possibly
at the expense of households located in more accessible areas. Again,
households and other users of grains, like feed manufacturers purchasing grain
late in the agricultural year, benefit from subsidized storage costs, possibly
at the expense of those who buy soon after harvest.
6.          CNP's interventions also have inefficiency costs for the national
economy. By diverting resources away from the country's true comparative
advantage, national income must be lower than it would be in a free trade
situation. Additionally, the country may have to bear some administrative,
transport, storage and marketing costs that would be avoided in a free trade
8ituation.
-.          CNP was established in the 1940s at a time when, because of lower
living standards, basic grains played a much greater role in the diet of the
average Costa Rican. Rural infrastructure was also much weaker at that time,
with many producers and consumers being relatively isolated, and world food
supplies were also more fragile.  But given the changed circumstances of the
1990s, the question arises as to 'wether CNP has a viable role to play today.
At a time of fiscal austerity, ate there more efficient ways of targeting
public assistance to needy farmers as1d consumers?
8.          In addressing these iss"es, this Annex first provides a
description of CNP's impact on prod_..er and consumer prices for major foods irt
recent years by showing how these p:ices are distorted from their relevant
border prices. This leads to an anal:sis of the gains and losses amongst
various groups of producers and consuv rs, and then to a discussion of the
economic consequences of full liberalization of the grain markets.
Rates of Protection for Domestic Grain Prices
9.          Table 1 contrasts the border and domestic wholesale prices at San
Jose for the years 1987/88, 1988/89 and 1989/90. Domestic bean prices have
been held below border prices throughout most of CNP's existence and this
pattern persisted in 1988/89 and 1989/90 with protection rates of 30t to 40X.
The tables were turned in 1987/88, but this was because of a sharp but
temporary plunge in the world price, and not because of any change in domestic
pricing policy. Rice prices follow an opposite pattern. Domestii.. prices have
generally been supported since the 19409 and this was also true in 1988/89 and
1989/90, with protection rates of about 20X. There was little price
distortion in 1987/88, but again this was because of a sharp drop in the



- 116 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 13
border price that year, and not a reflection of any change in domestic pricing
policy.
10.         The domestic wholesale price for yellow maize remained constant
during 1987/88 to 1989190 at ¢ 13,036/ton. This price was 242 higher than the
border price in 1987/88, but almosL equal to the border price in the last two
years. Yellow maize used to be protected through an import tariff, but this
was recently phased out as part of Costa Rica's Structural Adjustment Program.
11.         White maize prices are typically protected, and the domestic price
is deliberately kept higher than the domestic price of yellow maize. While
this policy has led to national self-sufficiency in white maize as a
foodgrain, it has also led to a situation in which CNP has to buy surplus
white maize at the support price and divert it to the lower-priced livestock
feedgrain market.
12.         CNP's price interventions have two effects on producers and
consumers. The first arises from the welfare effects of more stable prices;
and the second from the income transfers implicit when border and domestic
prices diverge.
Price Stabilization Effects
13.         Table 2 shows the coefficients of variation (cv) of world, CNP
import and domestic producer and consumer prices, as experienced in recent
years.
14.         Producer prices for rice and beans are moderately more stable than
international trade prices, but the reverse is true for maize. CNP seems to
have a greater impact on the stability of consumer prices (the cvs are very
low), although the buffering effect of processing, trade and distribution
margins may also be important.
15.         Table 2 only measures price variations across years, whereas CNP
also plays an important role in stabilizing price movements within years.
There is virtually no seasonal price variation in the data; CNP periodically
adjusts its price for inflation, but not for seasonal storage costs.
Consumer Welfare Gains from Price Stabilization
16.         Table 3 shows what would have happened to the year-to-year
variability in the cost of the diet for different types of households if
individual foodgrain prices had been four times more variable during 1982-89,
that is, if their price variability had approached the level of variability of
world prices. The results show only modest increases in the cv and the
maximum cost of the diet for all household groups. Increases in the cv of the
bean or maize price have the least effect, largely because these foods only
account for small shares of the total cost of the diet.
17.         Increased variability in the price of rice has a greater effect,
particularly for rurally dispersed households in the Central region who
allocate 381 of their food budget to rice. But even in this case, the cv of



- 117 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 13
the cost of the diet only doubles despite a fourfold increase in the cv of the
rice price, and the maximum cost of the diet increases by only 10Z.
18.         If the cvs of all three prices are quadrupled simultaneously, the
cvs of the cost of the diet increase by about 502 on average, and the maximum
cost of the diet increases by less than 102. Again, the biggest losers are
the rurally-dispersed households in the Central region.
19.         In sum, most consumer groups would lose very little even if the
variability of maize, bean and rice prices increases substantially towards
world price levels. There are pockets (niches) of vulnerable households
(e.g., rurally-ditpersed households in the Central region) who might suffer
unacceptable losses but these households are sufficiently few in number and
they could be more efficiently helped through a program of targeted
assistance.
20.         It should be noted that this analysis is based on 1982 diet data.
This was a crisis economic year and households may have consumed a greater
proportion of foodgrains in their diet than normal. Also, by not allowing the
diet to adjust to price changes each year in the simulations, the losses
associated with price variability are probably overestimated.
Producer Welfare Gains from Price Stabilization
21.         Table 4 shows what would have happened to the year-to-year
variability in gross crop revenue for different types of farms in Guanacaste
Province, an important maize, bean and rice growing region, if farm gate
prices had been twice as variable during 1975-87. The only sizeable increases
in the cv of revenue occur in those farm cells that devote at least 502 of
their crop area to maize, beans and rice. Within these groups, doubling the
cv of maize or bean prices alone has very small effects, either on the cv of
revenue or on the minimum revenue realized. Increased variability in the
price of rice is more important, but proportionally more so for the larger
farms.
22.         The Guanacaste results are typical of the results for other
regions (not displayed here). When the cvs of all three prices are doubled--
a situation that overstates the amount of variability that would be
experienced in a free-trade regime--the cv of revenue for the most maize, bean
and rice dependent farmers in each region increases by 50Z-702 for small farms
(less five ha) and doubles for large fanmers (greater than 100 ha). The
minimum income also declines by 52-10Z for the small farms, and by 20Z-25Z for
the large farms. But given the initial low revenue cvs, (less than 152),
these increases do not translate into serious welfare losses. In fact, using
the Newbery-Stiglitz approximation for changes in producer welfare, the losses
are about 2Z of mean income for the smallest farms, and about 52 for the
largest farms (assuming a relative risk aversion coefficient of 1.5).
23.         In sum, it would appear that increased variability in the prices
of maize or beans would have little or no impact on the variability of farm
incomes, even for small farms that devote most of their total planted area to
these two crops. Increased variability in rice prices would be most harmful
to large farmers, but would have only modest effects on small farms. In a



- 118 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 13
free trade regime in which the prices of all three crops became more variable,
large farms would suffer more than small farms, but the total welfare losses
from instability would still be small.
24.         The level of aggregation used in this analysis may hide the fact
that some pockets of small, highly foodgrain dependent farms could suffer more
than estimated here. If so, these farms can be more efficiently reached
through targeted assistance programs.
Income Transfer Effects
25.         The second way in which CNP's intervention affect welfare is
through income transfers implicit when border and domestic prices differ.
Given the measured distortions between border and domestic prices, and the
quantities of each grain produced and consumed within each region, the income
transfers implicit in CNP's pricing policies were calculated and are reported
in Table 5.
26.         CNP's pricing policies for beans, white maize and rice led to an
annual average net gain of 0 25 per capita (US$0.28) for the average Costa
Rican in 1987/88-1989/90. The average consumer actually lost 0 109 per capita
(US$1.21), hence the producers were the net beneficiaries. Of course, there
is no free lunch for the average Costa Rican, and the net transfer was paid
for indirectly through higher taxes and, as we shall see, through higher
prices for livestock products.
27.         While the total transfers are very modest in aggregate (US$0.28
per person), there are important distributional effects within the population.
The producer transfers were received entirely by farmers growing beans, white
maize or rice, and, on a per ha basis, these have been quite large (Table 5).
Bean farmers have generally lost substantial amounts of income as a result of
the CNP's interventions because the domestic price has been kept below the
world price. In 1987/88-1989/90, for example, bean farmers were 0 4,448
(US$50)/ha worse off than if they had received relevant border prices. In
contrast, rice farmers were much better off as a result of CNP's
interventions, by 8,861/ha during the same period (US$98). The combined
transfers for maize, beans and rice averaged 0 4,485 per ha per year between
1987/88 and 1989/90, or US$50.
28.         There were also important regional differences in producer
transfers.  Producers in the Central Pacific and North Pacific regions, who
specialize largely in rice production, benefitted the most, whereas producers
in the Central and Northern bean-growing regions were net losers. Further
analysis by farm size group also shows that bulk of the producer transfers are
received by a relatively small number of large farms. These are mostly large-
scale rice farmers located in the Central Pacific and North Pacific regions.
In contrast, the bean farmers who suffer losses because of CNP's interventions
tend to be small-scale producers.
29.         The consumer transfers also vary by region, with consumers in the
Central and North Pacific regions being the largest losers because of their
close proximity to Port Caldera. In essence, CNP's policy of equalizing
prices across regions penalizes consumers who have the readiest access to



- 119 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 13
importable supplies. Further analysis shows there is little evidence that the
transfers differ much by income groups within regions.
30.         In sum, CNP's interventions act as a tax on consumers and bean
farmers, but lead to sizeable benefits for large-scale rice farmers. For a
system that is designed to assist the poor, it seems to be having an opposite
effect.
31.         CNP also controls the imports of yellow maize, and, until
recently, maintained the domestic price above the relevant border price.
While this policy was designed to protect domestic maize growers, it had the
unfortunate side-effect of increasing the cost of the major feedgrain for
dairy, poultry and pork production. The net effect was inevitably higher
domestic prices for many livestock products, with additional losses to
consumers. Higher feedgrain prices may also discourage additional livestock
production for the export aarket. For example, poultry meat exports to Puerto
Rico might be feasible if feedgrain prices were lower.
32.         CNP's pricing policies also discourage competing private sector
activity in the grain markets. Smoothing of seasonal price variation, for
example, removes the incentive for private storage. Similarly, setting
regional prices that do not adequately reflect full transport costs makes it
difficult for private traders to compete in some regions. These policies also
lead to inefficient spatial patterns of production, with excess production of
grains in high-transport-cost regions, and insufficient production in low-
transport-cost regions.
Effects of Market Liberalization
33.         The above analysis implies that liberalization of the foodgrain
markets would have the following effects.
a.    consumers would benefit, but by a very small amount; on average,
by a little over one U.S. dollar per capita per year, but varying
by one or two dollars across regions and income groups. Consumers
would gain from lower rice prices, but lose an almost equal amount
from higher bean prices. These calculations do not include the
potential gains from cheaper livestock products. Nor do they
include indirect savings through lower taxes which are currently
required to fund CNP's operations;
b.    bean farmers, who tend to be the poorer, small-scale farmers,
would be better off, by about US$50-100/ha of beans in the more
important producing regions. On the other hand, the real losers
would be the large-scale rice farmers. They could lose as much as
US$150/ha of rice;
c.    livestock feed would become cheaper; by about 72 based on recent
prices. This would induce increases in poultry, eggs, dairy and
pork production, which are increasingly important items in the
national diet. At the same time, they are relatively high value
activities that could be helpful in increasing farm incomes; and



- 120 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 13
d.    liberalization would reduce the stability of consumer prices, but
the effect on the stability of the cost of the diet for most
consumers would be minuscule. The variability of farm gate prices
is already similar to world prices, hence farmers would not face
much increase in risk either. Moreover, since nearly all grain
farmers are efficiently diversified, grain price risks are not a
major issue. They would benefit much more from policies that
reduced the price variability of major export crops, e.gi, sugar
and coffee.
A Multlarket Model Analysis
34.         To further analyze the economic consequences of full
liberalization of the grain markets, a multimarket model of the main grain and
livestock markets was developed. Specifically, the model includes demand,
supply and market clearing equations for each of the following products:
white maize, yellow maize, beans, rice, poultry meat, eggs, milk and pork.
Each of the included livestock activities is an important user of yellow maize
for feed, and hence has a derived demand for yellow maize which contributes to
the total demand for that grain. Beef production does not use grain as an
input, and hence is not included in the model.
35.         The grain markets are assumed to be open to international trade
(exports or imports), hence their prices are exogenously given to the model,
either at CNP set prices, or at border prices when the markets are
liberalized. The endogenous variables in the maize, bean and rice markets are
therefore domestic production, domestic demand and either imports or exports.
For poultry meat, eggs, milk and pork, the markets are treated as closed to
international trade, hence both prices and quantities are endogenous.
36.         The model predicts that compared to their 1985/86-1989190
averages:
a.    the supply of poultry meat, eggs, milk and pork would increase by
between 52 and 132, consumer prices would decline by 32 to 122,
and consumption would increase by 52 to 14Z;
b.    bean and white maize production would increase by 42 each, and
rice production would fall by 12;
c.    rice imports would increase to about 13,000 tons, with consumers
increasing their rice consumption by OX;
d.    yellow maize imports would increase by 27,000 tons; and
e.    grain producers' income would decline by ¢ 437 million (18.5Z),
livestock producers' income would decline by ¢ 357 million (5.12),
consumers' real purchasing power would increase by C 1,738 million
(6.22), and national income as a whole would increase by 0 944
million, or 2.52.
37.         The change in national income can also be viewed as the social
cost of the current grain market interventions. Grain and livestock producers



- 121 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 13
achieve higher incomes under the current marketing system, while consumers are
net losers. As should be expected, producers gain less than consumers lose,
and there is a social deadweight loss of 0 944 million, or US$10.5 million.
38.         But this loss is only part of the total national cost of CNP's
interventions. In order to implement its market interventions, CNP incurs
marketing, transport, storage and subsidy costs that would not be incurred in
a free market situation. These additional costs are estimated at about
US$58 million per year, hence the full social cost of the current marketing
system is about US$68 million per year. This is a costly system when it is
realized that; (a) consumers are actually worse off as a result; and (b) the
net gain in producers' income is only US$8.8 million. Clearly, there is a lot
of leakage in the current approach to assist farmers and poor consumers.



- 122  -                        Annex 10
Page 9 of 13
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1. Average Domestic and Border Prices, Wholesale, San Jose
(1987/88-1989/90)
Period
Prices                          1987/88         1988/89         1989/90
(¢/ton)
DENS
Domestic                             39,904         42,466          45,873
Border                               26,765         60,083          78,075
Ratio                                  1.49            0.71           0.59
RICE
Domestic                             28,713         33,518          37,151
Border                               28,164         28,432          30,901
Ratio                                  1.02            1.18           1.20
UITE mass
Domostic                             14,633         16,502          20,073
Border                               11,896         17,845          15,417
Ratio                                  1.23           0.92            1.30
YCLLOW NAIZE
Domestic                             13,936         13,936          13,936
Border                               11,215         14,646          14,515
Ratio                                  1.24           0.95            0.96
Notes These are unweighted averages of monthly August to July prices
RatLo - Domestic/border; is also the Nominal Protection Coefficient



-  123  -                      Annex 10
Page 10 of 13
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Coefficients of Variation of Key Prices
Beans             Maize              Rice
World Price               n.a.              17.2               38.7
CNP Import Price         21.1               11.8               24.0
Domestic Producer
Price S/               15.7              22.3                19.7
Domestic Retail Price     4.7                6.2                6.0
a/ Detrended, 1978-87.
/ CIF prices provided by CNP for the period 1979/80-1988/89.
c/ PAO prices for the period 1975-87.
d/ Calculated from monthly price data received from the Census
Department for the period 1982-89.
Notes All prices were deflated to constant prices.



- 124 -
Annex 10
Page 11 of 13
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3. Impact on Consumers of Increased Price Instability
ov (iPnt)                       Me,mwum Cost (O
Aerp!e           4x    4x    4x    4x                  4x    4x    4x       4x
COA             ay    cv    ev    fv                 cV    cv    VW    cv
Houehold       Dit             Rice   Sen   MaIte  AJI 3            RIoe   Sen   Mie    tI 3
Type          (0)    S        Price  prim   Pric  PrIe    Se       Prkc   Price  Pe     Prc
URBAN
Central         24.42    7.5    9.8    6.9   7.4   9.1   26.75    27.66  26.64  26.83  27.79
Huetar Nortae   26.24    7.2    9.3    6.6    7.0    8.6   28.62    29.65  28.57  29.04  30.03
Huetar
Atlantlca      26.14    7.9   10.1    7.3    7.7   9.4   28.70    29.66  28.60  28.79  29.82
Chorotega       22.95    7.9   10.5   7.2    7.8    9.7  25.18    26.19  25.06  25.25  26.30
Brunca          26.54    7.6    9.6    7.2    7.4    9.0   29.08    29.96  29.00  29.28  30.23
RURAL CONCENTRATED
Central         19.41    6.1    9.7   5.1    5.9   8.8   21.05    22.26  20.98  21.24  22.39
Huetar Norte    22.14    6.1    9.1    5.3    6.0   8.4   24.04    25.20  23.98  24.37  25.48
Huetar
Atlantica      17.46    5.2    9.5    4.6    5.3    8.9   18.93    20.17  18.88  19.28  20.47
Chorotega       25.88    4.9    8.0    4.4    6.6    8.6   28.04    29.41  27.98  29.25  30.56
Brunca          25.53    5.8    e.9   5.2    5.9   8.3   27.72    29.07  27.67  28.33  29.63
RURAL DISPERSED
Central         18.41    5.1    11.8   4.6    5.1   11.2   19.96    21.97  19.91  20.24  22.20
Huetar Norte    26.42    6.4    8.1    5.7   6.2   7.4   28.72    29.55  28.66  29.12  29.90
Huetar
Atlantica     20.65    5.4    8.9    4.9    5.6   8.5  22.44    23.65  22.40  22.96  24.13
Chorotega       29.26    4.6    7.1    4.1    5.8   7.4   31.49    32.73  31.43  32.67  33.84
Brunca          20.90    4.8    9.6    4.4    4.7   9.0   22.56    24.18  22.50  22.82  24.38
I Per person per day.
Note: All prices hI cosant 1975 g



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4. Impact on Producers of Increased Price Instability, Guanacaste Province
Re,.
Ceefflicelt of  rlation at otw                     I4inIm tWm per he
S C..            Fare            "'.        ire                  Dolle   DoUble   DoAble   Dowbl.                  Double   Dule   Doble   Double
Asgein           Size          Re,..S xaise                       cv of    cv of    cot      c rof                  cw of    cv, f    cv of    cv of
ig               Crep            e         A b.an                 Rice     soon    Main:    All 3                   Rice     seo."   tht.    Ai 3
Saum a Rig.        oI)             H         a Rice        Si..    Price    Price    Pr,ce   Pricea         be.       Price    Prigc    Price    Price.
26 - 50 Group
0-  5        45,023        1.84         29.5    29.5    26.5    28.5    28.4           24,008   23,994  24,008  24,001  23,081
5- 20        18,086        5.88         23.8    23.7    23.8    28.0    23.8            9,804    9,768   9,8s0   9,799   9,764
20- 50        4,861       29.86         11.9    18.6    12.0    12.2    16.9           4,117    3,?90   4,113   4,102   3,771
50-100          n.a        n.m           n.a      n.o      n.o n.a n.2                    n.o ".m            n.e      n.m    f1.1 1
100.          7,078       29.29         19.8    18.6    13.6    13.7    18.7           5,830    5,346   S,823   5,818   5,327
50 - 75 Group
0-  6      16,169        9.43         25.1    24.9    25.0    24.9    24.7           8,721    8,684    ,722   8,707   8,671
5- 20       8,719       19.34         19.1    19.1    19.0    19.0    19.1           5,739    5,646   5,739   5,729   5,637
20- SO       6,462       22.99         17.3    17.6    17.4    17.3    17.8           4,330    4,273   4,331   4,322   4,287
50-100       5,323       40.82         12.6    17.3    13.0    13.1    18.4           4,184    4,04S   4,184   4,177   4,037
100.          6,177       64.68         13.5    23.6    13.8    13.7    23.8           6,069    4,274   5,068   5,058   4,250
76 - 100 Group
0-  5       8,167       58.32         12.8    17.2    13.6    15.8    21.8           2,528    2,452   2,528   2,509   2,296
5- 20       3,268       54.89        12.6    17.4    13.4    14.4    20.7            2,596    2,510   2,597   2,583   2,410
20- 50       8,636       40.11         14.7    16.9    15.1    15.3    17.7           2,642    2,597   2,643   2,629   2,575
50-100       8,332       65.96         18.4    23.3    14.2    14.6    25.4           2,754    2,326   2,711   2,699   2,228
100+          4,526       86.76         17.6    33.9    17.8    17.9    34.4           3,622    2,611   3,509   3,507   2,583
01
P,j



- 126 -
Ann2ex  10,
Page 13 of 13
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5.  Three-Year Averages of the Income Transfers
to Consumers and Producers, by Crop and Region
(1987/88-1989/90)
Central   Central     North       South                            Cost*
Pacific    Pacific    Pacific    Northern  Atlantic      Rico
Consumers (Per capita)W
Beans             109        161        166        203        221        154        135
White Maie!'      -27        -47        -72        -16        -44        -39        -33
Rico             -188       -328       -275       -200       -227       -269       -212
Total            -106       -214       -181        -12        -50       -154       -109
Producers (per ha)41
Beans          -4,636     -5,035       -128     -5,249    -11,013     -1,534     -4,448
White Malze    -3,755      1,666      4,253        442        744       -596         72
Rlce            3,898     10,885      9,988      8,180      4,846      3,187      8,861
Total          -4,493      7,516     14,113      3,373     -5,423       1,057     4,485
Agarepate Transfers (Per capita)
Beans              94         60        140       -173       -399       -130         44
Whitt Maize       -48         se         32        167         -6    -   151          1
Rice             -186        504       1022         69        -92       -189        -20
Total            -140        620       1194         63       -497       -168         25
a/ 1989/90 prices
b/ Based on the total population In each region
c/ human consumption only
d/ The transfers for each crop were divided by the area of the relevant crop as reported In the
1984 Census.



COSTA RICA
A*RIOILTMEL SECIOSt IN!STHENT AO INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNENT PtCJECT
Tabte 1. Proaress Perforncae indicator
Institutiont Develeoient comeonent
OBJECTIVE                                             PR OJE CT ACTIVITIES                        j          NITY                    TtIEFRME
A  Iqirovement of sector anatysfa would    1. Contract for 3 months expert assistonce to ass1st fn:                 SEPSA                     2rd. quarter 1992
Include: tl) strengthening                  ti) assessment of priority  policy and program  issues;
institutional framework;                    (ii) identifying priority data bsses to be developed or
Cii) developinr  capacity to conduct        strengthened; Ciil) design of analytic studies; (1v) refinement
sector analysis utfilzing results in        of first year work plan for SEPSA's Basic Studies wd
policy nd program decision-inking;          Agriculture Information units; and tv) elarifying scopes of
and (iii) developing sustainable            work for additfonat short and long term consultants.
information system responsive to
defined sector  nalysis requirements    2. Coplete study of sector information requirements and  _aster          SEPSA with inter-org.    Ist-4th quArter I992
plan" for development of priority information systems at            comittee on agr.
(Part A.1, Schedule 2 of Loan               sector level and in AG and IDA with assistance of consultants.   lnformetion
Agreement)
3. Contract I local economist for 2 years and several short term       SEPSA                     8egifming 3rd quarter
consultants to  address specific topics in sector ansaysis and                                1992
provide on-the-job training and  workshops.
4. Contract institutional development specialist end conduct term    SEPSA                       By 3rd quarter 1992,
planming workshops and meetings in which SEPSA staff clarifies                                after reorganization and      a
and develops commn widerstending of: (i) SEPSA's overall                                      staffing of SEPSA fs
mission and objectives; (ii) roles, responsibilities and inter-                               coaplete
relationships of the re-organized units; (iii) outline plan for
organizational activities by function and unit and for the use
of project institutional developments inputs; and
(iv) individualized training plan for SEPSA staff.
S. Design and conduct short term and on-the-job training for           SEPSA                     1992, 1993  1994
specialized SEPSA and other sector staff in project monitoring
and evaluation, the use of information systis and sector
analysis.
6. Devetop priority information systems, in sector organizations       SEPSA/agr. fnfo.          Initiate by 3rd quarter
and across these organizations, including: ti) settlen nt           inter-org.                1992; coaplete by end
1nformetion system for IDA (see Objective B and C.3;                comsittee                 1994
(ii) financiat magement and adeinistrative systems (see
objectives 8 and C.2); and (iii) data bases of key variables
relating to the measurements wad analysis of sector
perforance.
II
H 



Table 1. Progress Performance Indicator (Cant.)
Institutionai Development Crmaonent
I   , .  ,  .__   _    .   ,   ,,                                                                                               -          .     _ -
OBJECTIVE                 I                           PROJECT ACTIVITIES                          I          ENTITY                  TIJEFRAME
A. leprovement of sector wutysis would    7.   Corduct sector analyses In priority areas and provide reports   SEPSA                           ArnuiMly. begirming 1992
inelude: (i) strengthening                     to CAN.
Institutional framework;
(fi) developfng capecity to conduct      8.   Conduct assessments of progress in achieving SEPSA's               SEPSA                     1M, 1993, 1994
sector analysis utilizing resutts in           institutional develapient targets as irput to arnual ad mid-
policy and program decision-making;            term reviews.
and (fii) developing surtaifrble
information system re'-  lve to          9.   Based on information network "Waster Plann;  pproved by the        SEPSA/agr. info.          1st quarter 1993
defined sector analysi.   yirements.           Bank, develop pLan for purchasing of carputer hardware and         inter-org. committee
software for SEPSA and other sector organizations, review
(Part A.1, Schedule 2 of Loan                  plan with the Committee for Agricultwral Information, and
Agreement)                                     initiate bidding process.
(contitwe)                               10.  Purchase computer hardware and software for SEPSA and              SEPSA/agr. info.          3rd quarter
other sector organizations.                                       inter-org. conittee
11.  Conduct follow-up team plaming workshops focusing on               SEPSA                     1992, 1993
individual units within SEPSA, the development of unit work
plans, and coordination of their work with rest of sector.
12.  Evaluate caopleted and proposed sector investments                SEPSA                       wunully, beginning 1992
against the Marco Orientador and report results to CAN.
to
13.  Complete analytic reports for CAN and conduct seminars             SEPSA                      egiming in 1994               0
which analyze specific growth/investment models for Costs
Rica's agriculturat sector.
14.  Conduct mid-term review of institutional strengthening            All executing agencies   End of 1994
in sector analysis, identifying priority areas for
strengthening in the second half of the project.
15.  Additional indicators agreed upon at or within three                                        1994
months of mid-term evaluation.
16.  Implementation in line with agreed upon indicators                                          1995-1997
(para. 15 above).                                                   _
F w



Table I. Progress Performance Indicator (Cant.)
institutional Develoaesnt component
OJECTIVE                                             PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                     ENTITY                  TINEFAME
Sector Pluming mid Financial           1.   Analyze current pattern of sector expenditures, assess and        SEPSA with CAN            1st quarter 1992
Nangemet:  (i) strengthening                develop recowerndbtions for the design of a prograwbase                                     through 3rd qArter 1992
institutional framnewok for budget          sector budgeting and accounting system, wnd develop
nd expenditure reviews;                     procedwres for budgetary review by the Ninister, with the
(ii) foplement improved sector              assistance of consultent(s).
Firnncal N     eme nt Systeme and
(i1) developing budget wnd            2.   Sased on the review of ptbiic sector expenditures in              SEPSA wad CAN             3rd quarter 1992
expenditure analyses  nd                    agriculture wid an policies of CAN, establish guidelines for
incorporating information Into              development of new budgets.  initiete sector level review  nd
decision making.                            approvwas of proposed institutional budgets.
(Part A.1, A.2 ad A.3, schedule 2    3.   Develop and agree (with vorld Dank) on terms of reference for   SEPSAlinter-org.              1st quarter 1993
of Loan Agreement)                          development and iwplementation of the financilt management        Group
system, end contract for long ant short term consulting
assistance.
4.   Establish inter-organitional Group, headed by SEPSA, to           CAN                       By 1st quarter 1992
advise in the ilprovement of sector plaming, budgeting and
accotuting systems. Group would also include representation
of sector organizations (especially IDA, NAG and CiP) and
central governent ministries (Hacienda nd possibly NIDEPUAN
and Contraloria).
5.   Complete and review at the level of the Inter-organizational    Inter-org. Croup            4th quarter 192M
Task Force, CAN ad COTECSA, the proposed plan for the             CAN,
Integrated sector financial management system, including an      COTECSA
outline of the technical, procedurat maagrement
characteristics of the proposed system. Finalize plans for
system development based on these reviews.
6.   implement agreed design of new integrated sector financisl        SEPSA, HAG,               1993-1994
mnagement system.                                                 IDA
7.   Provide Intensive, short term training for SEPSA staff wnd        SEPSA, RAG,               1993-1994
plaming, budgeting and  amngemeent staff of IDA and NAG in        IDA
the use of the Integrated sector financial mangement system.
8.   Using procedwres established In 1992, condact review of           SEPSA an  CAN Aatually begirming In
sector expenditures and provide guidance to and review                                     1993
proposed organizational budgets.
9.   Conrdat mid-term review of status of financisl  nagement          All executing             4th quarter 1994
system and effectiveness of sector level reviews of              agencies
organizational plens and expenditures, identifying priority
areas for strengthening in the second half of the project.
10.  Additional indicators agreed upon at or within three                                       1994
months of md- term evaluation.
11   Implementation In line with agreed upon indicators.                                        1995-199?
Agreed durlng mid-term review (pars. 10 abve). 
. ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



tab4e 1. Progress Performance indicator (Cont.)
Institutional Develcoent Cq monent
OBJCTIK                                            PIOJECT ACTIVITIES                                  ENTITY        I       TIEFRAE
C.   Strengthening   C.2 Eati'mltziln     1.   Condbct a review of pubdle sector emptoyiert in  griculture    SEPSA                   1993
and decen-          sector                to assess: t) ipact of retrencmeunt program and inter-
tralizing PAC       eployment             organizational transfers; wid (ii) adequy wnd
and IDA and                                ppropriateness of the new staffing pattern and pefsonmel
rationalizing                             policies given each organizations; mission wid objectives.
sector                                    If approprlate. develop proposal for further dJustments In
enpoy ent                                 staffing patternm  age and benefits, aidor recruitment
policies.
(Parts A.2
and A.3                              2.   Based on review eon4icted in previous year. divelop nd         SEPSA and CAm            1994
Schedule 2 of                             implement program to further ratlonatize staffing pattern and
Loan                                      persmmel policies within organizations.
Agreement)
3.   Additionsl Indicators agreed upon at or within three months                            1994
of m*d-term evalustion.
4.   iplementation In line with agreed upon Indlnators (pars. 3                             1995-19
above).
C.2 Strengthening    1.   Re-define responsibilities of NAG regional and central office   NAG                     1992-1994
and                  units, nd transfer approximtely 41 research and 53
decentratizing       extension staff. and tdetermined n,Ier of aministrative
IUG                  staff, to regions.  (According to decentralization plan                                                              0
agreed cering negotiations).
2.   Dentralize administrative and financial functlon  as         MWG                       1991-1993
identified In the PA  Suplementary Letter.
3.   Conuict organization and regional level tem plaming           NAG                      Conuhwt workshops by 4th
workshops in which staff develop opeational pias and                                   quorter of 1992  1993,
procedares for implementation of new/changed technical and                             wid 1994
administrative functions, with the assistance of consultants
skilled in the design and facilitation of such participatory
workshps.
4.   Comuterize procurement and perso tel functions (in addition    MAG                     1992-1994
to budget and accounting functfons mentioned In Objective B).
reducing time required for processing actions nd incressing
overall aministrative efficiency. Develop TOR wid contract
consultants to assist In this task as part of the sector
Inforation suhbcponent.
5.   Provide intensive. aort term training for MG staff In ne      PAG                      1992-1994
administrative system  and functions, at both central wd
regiwal levels.
6.   Coewhict assessment of Irplemntation of NAG institutional      MG                      199  1993, 1994
decentralization, strengthening, privatization and other
project targets. as input to  nnuat wnd mid-term reviews.
41I



Table 1. Prosress Perforance Indicator (Cont.)
tnstitutional Develomnent Component
OBJECTIVE                                         PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                 ENTITY                TINEFRAME
C.  Strengthening   C.2 Strengthening    7.  Conduct study providing recommendations for the privatization   RAG                    1992
and decen-          and                  of restructuring of the vehicle repair and maintenance
tralizing NAG       decentralizing       facilities.
and IDA and         UAG
rationalizing                       8.  Implement recommnded i vments in the vehicle minternce   NAG                           1993
sector                                   and repair system.
employment
(Parts A.2                          9.  Additionat indicators agreed upon at or within three months                            1994
and A.3                                  of mid-term evaluation.
Schedule 2 of
Loan                                10. Implementation in line with agreed upon indicators.                                    1995-1997
Agreement)
(Contirume)    C.3 Strengthening    1.  Complete organizational restructuring, definition of unit      IDA                     Report results providd
and                     roles and responsibilities, re-assessment of minimun staffing                         in 1st quarter 1992
Decentralizing          required by each, and re-assigment of personnel within
IDA                     central, regional and sub-regional offices accordingly.
2.  Coplete transfer to regional and sub-regional offices of      IDA                     Report of results
minim  of 12 staff in 1991, resulting in a minimn net                                provided in 1st quarter
increase in 8 technical and 2 professional staff in the                              1992
regions.
3.  Establish internal Task Force responsible for overseeing      IDA                     Task force begins work by
effective implementation of IDA policies and streamlined                             1st q.mrter 1992
procedures to be established or strengthened within the                                                           w
Project.
4.  Revise and promulgate IDA operational mauals ard internal     IDA                     1st quarter - 3rd quarter
procedures to implement agreed policies ard regulations (see                         1992
No. 3 immediately ebove).
5.  With assistance of consultants skilled in the design and      IDA                     Corsultants contracted by
conduct of participative plarming workshops, conict                                  2nd quarter 1992.
organizational and regional level planning and review                                Conrdct workshops by 4th
workshops to strengthen process of organizational                                    quarter of 1992, 1993 and
decentralization and improve efficiency and effectiveness.                           1994.
Workshops would focus on: (I) clarifying organizational goals
and objectives. (ii) defining unit functions and
responsibilities in achieving them, (iii) developing annual
work plans. (lv) identifying and strengthening mechanisms and
procedures for required inter-unit coordination, and Cv)
identifying priority training needs related to implementation
of plans and procedures by specific units.
6.  Design and Initiate In-service training program to address   IDA                      Starting 3rd quarter
priority training needs specifically identified within each                          1992, through 1994, using
unit or work team, with training that addresses specific Job                         annual planing and review
requirements of the individuals.                                                     workshops to assist in
identifying continuing
_________________________________________________________________    _______________________   training  re uirements.



Table 1. Proaress Perfornance Indicator (Cont.)
Institutional Develoament Cosmonent
OBJECTIVE                                         PROJECT ACTIVITIES                         i        ENTITY                 TINEFRANE
C.  Strengthening   C.3 Strengthening    7.  Draft legislation to modify tegat restrictions to the           LDA                      By 4th quarter 1992
and               nd                      achievements of IDA's land reform and agrarian development
decentralizin    Decentralizing           objectives, including tawm  relating to title transferability
o MAG aid IDA     IDA                     and cost recovery.
mnd
ratIorali2ing                        8.  Establish decentralized, integrated settlenmt information      IDA                      Based on guidbnee
sector                                    system that alloks for improved    _ mgmnt of settlement                               provided by the
eeployment                                consolidation and titling, that is cqplatible with the                                 information sector Paster
agricultural sector information network, and that is linked                           Plan, contract
(Parts A.2                                with IDA*s budget and accounting system. Develop TOR and                               consultants by 4th
and A.3,                                  contract consultants to assist In this task, as part of the                            quarter 1992. Catlete
Schedule 2 of                             sector information network sub-component of the project.                               system design by 2nd
Loan                                                                                                                             quarter 1993. Complete
Agreement)                                                                                                                       system ivplementation by
1st quarter 1994.
9.   Conduct assessment of inplementation of IDA institutional     IDA and SES              1992, 1993, 1994
decentralization and strengthening ad other project targets
as irput to arrual and mid-term reviews.
10. As part of the sector Planing and Financial Management         IDA and SEPSA            1992-1994
initiative, develop and install an integrated program
budgeting and accounting system with IDA, with the assistance
of consultants.  (See above, Objective 8).
11. Complete the transfer to regional and sub-regional             IDA                     Report of results
offices of a minimum of 40 staff in 1992, including a minimum                         provided in 1st quarter
increase of 20 technical and 6 professional staff in the                              1993. as part of project
regional offices, resulting in a ratio of centralized to                                 l   report.
regionalized staff of approximately 55/45.
12. Complete the transfer to regional and sub-regional             IDA                     Report of results
offices of a minimum increase of 35 technical and 6                                   provided in 1st quarter
professional staff in the regional offices, resulting in a                             1994, as part of project
ratio of centralized to regionalized staff of approximately                           an  t report.
40/60.
13. Complete the transfer to regional and sub-regional             IDA                     Report of results
offices of a minlium  increase of 29 technical and 4                                  provided as input to mid-
professfonal staff in the regional offices, resulting in a                            term evaluation in 1994.
ratio of centralized to regionalized staff of approximately
40/60.
14. Additlonal Indicators agreed upon at or within three months of  IDA                    1994
mid-term project evaluation.
15. Implementation in line with agreed indicators                  IDA                      1995-19#
(para. 14 above).
..~~~~~~~~~~~~I



-  133  _annx 1                                   -
Page 7 of 13
COSTA RIC
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTXONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Prooreas Performance indicators
Land Use Classification and soil Erosion Control Program
TARGET
TASK                       1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
Quarter  Quarter  Quarter   Quarter   Quarter
1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4
A. AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
-Terms of Reference            _
Preparation                     .
-Prequalification of
Firms
-Bid Document
Preparation      _
-Bidding for
Prequalification
Firms under ICB
-FIRM SELECTION
-CONTRACT EXECUTION
B. LAND CAPABILITY
MAPPING                                     _
-Terms of Reference
Preparation        _ _
-Prequalification of
Firms                   _
-Bid Document
Preparation
-Bidding for                           ---
Prequalification
Firms under ICB          _
-FIRM SELECTION
-CONTRACT EXECUTION                      ------------------------  ---
-Procurement of
Computer Equipment                                   _



- 134 -
Annex-11
Page 8 of 13
Table 2. Progresg Performance Indicators (Cont.)
Land Use Classification and Soil Erosion Control Program
TARGET
TASK                       1992      1993     1994      1995      1996
Quarter  Quarter  Quarter   Quarter   Quarter
1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 34
C. EROSION CONTROL PLOTS
- Parcel Selection
- Parcel Preparation                _
- Soil Analysis                    _         _
- Measurement Program        -__   _______-- - ------------------ - ---
D. SOIL AND WATER DEMNS.
PLOTS
- Parcel Selection              _
- Parcel Preparation
- Soil Analysis          _
- Init. Economic               _
Analysis
- Climatological               _
Analysis
- Annual Economic                               ---       ---
Analysis
E. AGRO-METEOROLOGICAL
- Meteorological Equip.
Procurement
- Central Met. Station
P:ocurement
- Climatological and                 ------   ------    ------    -----
Met. Studies
F. TRAINING PROGRAM
- Equipment Procurement                                _
- Course Land                    _              ---       ---
Classification and
Soil Conservation
- Periodic Seminars                 _
(Regional)
- Publication-Soil          ----    _
Conservation Manual
.m                     .  ._=_.



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTHENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENt PROJECT
Table 3. Pr_ocresg Porforuance Indicators
Aaricultural Research and Extension Component
Agricultural Research
__9 1992          1993   -    1994   -    1995            1 1996    -    1997          1998
_     _   _   _   __j_          _   _    _ .          _   _  _4                I             I
Small farmer groups            -             80           120          250           400           580           700
assisted by
interdisciplinary
extension/research
teams                                                                                .
Percentage of applied          _               5           10           15            20            25            30
research trials on farm                 _              ._                               _
tn
Percentage of adaptive         _               5           15           20            30            40            50
research concentrated
on non-traditional
export crops
Number of regional             _               3            5            8
offices with soil
analysis capability                    ___ _                                                              _  _
Number of on-farm             80            120           200          300           420           500          600
visits per year of
subject matter
specialists
(researchers)
* *



- 136 -
Annex 11
Page 10 of 13
COSTA RIC
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4. Progress Performance Indicator&
Settlement Consolidation
Community Facilities and Servicea
Target
Task             11992   1993   1994        1 1995   996  1997  1998
Phase I Proaram
30o   60%   80%  100%
'4onstruction
completed in %
of total
settlements t17)
Phase II Proara
Construction                                       40%   70%   90%  100%
completed in t of
total settlements
(to be determined at
mid-term review)      _._=__
Table 5. Proaress Performance Indicators
Demarcation of National Parks and Indicenous Reserves
Targets
Task                              111
1992     19939199          1995   Total by
Project
Completion
National       390      1045      785     390    2610
Construction   Parks
(KMn)_ _
of
Indigenous     235       470      625     235    1565
Boundaries     Reserves
_ _ _ _ _ _   ~(Kmn)_      _   _  _   _     _ __         _   _   _    _



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6. Prooress Performance Indicators
Aaricultural Research and Extension Component
Aoricultural Extension a/
1992       1993         1994        1995         1996    J   1997        1998
Number of farmers        18,000     20,000       22,000      26,000       30,000      35,000      40,000
assisted by HAG
Number of field             120        180          350         700        1,000       1,400       2,000
demonstration plots                                                                                         l
Cumulative number of         40         80          140         180         230          300         350
extensionists
attending
training courses
Farmer to                 67:1       100:1        134:1       157:1       172:1       179:1        190:1
extensionist
ratio
a/ Private Technical Assistance Voucher Pilot Program; see Annex 6.
I...
I-,.Ih
0
'I



COSTA RICA
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tbb 7. Pxos   PeTfonams Icato
T a r g * t
1992                           1993                       -    1994                              19
Task                 qatrii    i..]~                             -
quarter      __                Quarter aQuaIr                                                    Quarter
-__T_2           3      4 _            2        3       4 1     1         2       3       4        1       2        3      4
Land                                        700             85O    1000     160      900     850    1000    60e       900    1100    1300
Ti tles
(Issued)                                                                             -        -       -        -
No. of                                        3                                                   1 9  8  1s  17  9  18  21     12       16
Settle-
ments
Gend it-
Programs       -I                                                                              2                                 I_  _ 
1996-1991 and Tond by Project Conlefon
Tosk      I                                  1                                   1                9                       Total by
Quarter                            Quarter           _                 quarter                   Project
I   2       a        4       1    |2    |3    |4                 1        2   |3    |4                 Completion
Land         1100      800    1000    980        750    900      1000     1200      800      960    1200      1000          21,274
Titles
(Issued)       -                -                -        -  I                       -       -        -
No. of         16        19      20     13        1s     18        21       so        17      21      20        19             362
Settle-
ment
Benef it-
ted
Programs                                    1                - T    1   T          r    r         - _        - _                 6
.0



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8. Progress Performance Indicators
Settlement Conolidation
Rural Road Infrastructure
Target
Task                1992             1993            1994             1995            19              1997            1998        TotaI by
1 2 3 4         1 2 3 4         1 2 3 4          1 2  3 4        1 2 3 4         1 2 3 4         1 2     4 3Copltion 
RehabiIitation                     20                  S0                 80           30                  20                           180
I and Ilprovment
of Typo I Roads
1(Kms)
Rehabi litation                                                              35             40               S0               S0        175
and Improvement
of Type II Roads
(Kma)
Total                                  20               S0              96              70              70              S0            3SS
0 



-  140  -                       Annex 12
Page 1 of 10
CQSTA RIC
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Staff Input for Proiect Launch and Mid-Course Adlustments
1.          Given the pr-Ject's comprehensive approach to sec r reform, and
the nature and scope of sector investment proposed, extensive and close
supervision would be required, especially during the first two yeara of
project implementation.
2.          A project launch workshop and yearly project review workshops will
be organized, assisting the staff of the implementing agencies develop a
common understanding of the project's overall development objectives,
operational procedures, coordination needs and potential implementation
problems.
3.          The tentative supervision timetable and required Bank staffing is
the following:
Proiect Launch Worksho .  First Quarter 1992
Focus:                         reviewing and adjusting (as needed)
implementation plan of each executing agency
(SEPSA, MAG, IDA, and MOPT), identifying and
planning required coordination among agencies,
project management, procurement, disbursement
and auditing procedures and requirements.
Technical assistance and training programs and
appraisal of the 1992 sector investment plan.
Durationt                      3-5 days
Participating Bank Staff:      - Task Manager
- Institutional Development Specialist
- Natural Resource Management Specialist
- Information Specialist
- Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
- Procurement Specialist
- Disbursement Specialist
- Urban Planner
- Transport Engineer/Economist
Time Required:                 9 staffweeks
Annual Proiect Im2lementation Review Worksho .  Third quarter of years 1993-
1995-1996.
Focu8s      Project progrees review, identification of implementation problems
and issues and planning for the upcoming year.
Duration:   2-3 days



- 141 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 10
Participating Bank Staff:
- Task Manager
- Institutional Development Specialist
- Natural Resource Management Specialist
- Environment Specialist
- Procurement Specialist (year 1993)
- Disbursement Specialist (year 1993)
- Auditing Specialist (year 1993)
- Urban Planner (years 1993 and 1995)
- Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Time Required:    1993 - 6 sw/1995- 4 sw/1996- 4 Bw
Mid-Term ImDlementation Review (Evaluation) - Third ouarter 1994
Focus:      Project Performance, identification of areas in need of
adjustment.
Duration:   5 days
Participating Bank Staff:
- Task Manager
- Institutional Development Specialist
- Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
- Environment Specialist
- Macroeconomist
- Time Required: 4 staffweeks
- Roads and Rural Infrastructure Specialist
4.          In sum, the Project Launch and Annual Project Implementation
Review Workshops, and the Mid-Term Evaluation would require a total of 21
staffweeks.
5.          During the first two years of project implementation, supervision
efforts will focus on organization and team development with a view toward
strengthening the PCU's operational capacity. The Project Launch workshop
will be followed by additional supervision input to familiarize selected local
staff with Bank's procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures and
guidelines. It is expected that Bank staff will assist SEPSA and the other
executing agenciee in prioritizing investments as well as human resource
allocation. Selection of consultants--for the PCU--will require special
attention in order to ensure adequate managerial capacity and continuity
through the project's life.
6.          The selection of consultants for the Master Plan for the
Computerized Agricultural Information Network as well as assisting the
Borrower in the preparation of bidding documents for the Land Use
Classification and Land Titling Programs will also be major tasks to be
carried out during the first nine months of project implementation.



- 142 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 10
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INE,ITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suvervision Plan
Proposed Aaenda for Annual and Mid-Term Imolementation Reviews
1.          The annual project review--to be organized by the PCU--will take
place in August-September of each year (except 1994 mid-term review),
beginning in 1993, with the participation of the PCU, representatives of the
executing agencies, and Bank staff. Annual review would focus on evaluations
of progress against the annual operating plans, measures of project
performance and impact (Annex 11), and issues of overall project management.
Examples of project impact to be measured include such indicators as increases
in numbers of farmers served per extension worker, and the rate of
regularization of land tenure rights through IDA's land titling program. The
result of the annual review would be the clarification of the following year's
operating plan, identifying and agreeing on remedial actions required to
address problems or changing circumstances during implementation. Thus the
annual review and planning process will provide a tool for ongoing refinements
in project strategies and plans, consistent with the overall objectives of the
project.
2.          The mid-term project review to be conducted at the end of 1994
would follow the same format as the annual reviews but the analysis of project
impact would be expanded. In addition, the mid-term review will be result in
a clarified and agreed seL of indicators for years 1995 through project
completion in 1998.
3.          A summary of the areas to be addressed in the annual and mid-term
reviews is presented below.
Institutional Development
a.    Sector Analysis:  Progress in the establishment of a functioning
institutional framework for the review of sector institutions and
performance, the design and implementation of an information
network, and the provision of sector analyses relevant to program
anci policy decisions;
b.    Sector Planning and Financial Manaaement:  Progress in the
development and implementation of an integrated sector financial
management system and in the effectiveness of the strengthened
authority of CAN to review and approve budgets;
c.    Strengthening and Decentralizino MAG and IDA:  Progress in:
(i) decentralizing functions and personnel; (ii) development of
more efficient administrative systems and procedures (MAG and
IDA); (iii) development of a settlement information system (IDA);
and (iv) privatization of services (MAG);
d.    Land Use Classification and Soil Erosion Control Program



-  143  -                     Annex 12
Page 4 of 10
i.    Arial Photocraphy:  Quality and accuracy of aerial
photography used in the preparation of land maps (by end of
1992);
iU.   Lnd Capabilitv Mapinjgt Progress in the preparation of
land maps in accordance with the first approximation
(1:250,000) of land use capability. Degree of agreement
between the inter-institutional work ng team, and
identification of specific areas which might need
strengthening. Contracting of firm to do mapping (end of
1992) and completion of map (by end of 1995)1
iii. Erosion Control Plots: Location and design of the plots
incorporating the identified variables for different
cropping, soil, and climate conditions. Degree of
coordination between agencies (NAG--SEPSA) in the design of
the plots and transferring results as the basis for the
adoption of more advanced (environmentally sound)
technologies. Assessment of edaphologic, climatologic, and
economic analysis carried out during the period under
review;
iv.   Soil and Water Demonstration Plots:  Same as para. d.iii
above; and
v.    Trainina 2rogram.  Review content and design of courses and
periodic seminars on land classification and soil
conservation. Level of attendance and assessment of the
impact of the training program on technical staff and
farmers. Review the annual program and suggest possible new
topics and/or adjustments for the following year; and
e.     Demarcation of National Parks and indiaenous Reserves:  Analysis
of physical progress of demarcation works with respect to project
targets (Annex 11). Review the program to ensure Government's
continued commitment to carry out the agreed maintenance plan for
the demarcated areas.
Agriculture Research and Extension
a.    Aariculture Research.  Review the design of the research program
and level of acceptance (adoption) by field staff, and farmer
target groups. Assess the results of the experiences on
validation of new technologies under farm conditions, and the
results of the coordination efforts to incorporate the private
sector to the new methodology. Review and discuss the selection
of priority areas and crops, including the need for possible
academic training in new areas; and
b.    Acriculture Extension:
i.    PTA Voucher "Pilot" Program:  Assess coverage of the program
with respect to identified targets (Annex 6). Based on the
results of the analysis, discuss possible adjustments; and



- 144 -
Annex la
Page 5 of 10
ii.   Extensions  Level of adoption and impact of the Group
Methodology in small and small-medium farmer groups. Assess
the effectiveness of the research personnel as subject-
matter specialists. Discussion of the results obtained
during the review period to help defining technology
transfer priorities. Review the effectiveness of the
training program.
Land Titlino and Settlement Coneolidation
a.    Land Titlino:  Review progress, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness
of the titling program, including the impact, on IDA's
performance, of policy actions taken by the Government prior to
effectiveness (para. 2.71 SAR). Completion of the three phases of
the titling program would be closely monitored according to
targets and agreed conditions; and
b.    Settlement Consolidation
i.    Community Facilities and Services:  Assess progress and
performance of the different component elements (multi-
purpose community rooms, classrooms, teacher houses, and
water supply installations) to consider possible technical
and financial adjustments; and
Li.   Rural Roads Infrastructures  Performance of MOPT in the
contracting of the rehabilitation of the planned rural
roads, and how these infrastructure would help IDA to meet
its settlement consolidation goals. Review feasibility
studies and compliance with agreed environmental assessment
guidelines, to evaluate the possible incorporation of the
rural road rehabilitation program second phase (para. 2.65
SAR). Evaluation of the rural infrastructure periodic and
routine maintenance plans.
Proiect Management and Coordination
a.    PCU performance: will be evaluated with major emphasis on its
ability to coordinate sector institutions to achieve the project's
objectives. The composition of the PCU will be analyzed, in order
to receive feedback from the executing agencies regarding the
coordinating unit's ability to adequately manage technical and
administrative issues;
b.    Procurement and disbursements: technical ability, soundness of
judgment, and compliance with Bank guidelines will be assessed
taking into account actual project performance during the period
under review. This analysis will indicate if there will be a need
to strengthen the specific areas under review. It will also serve
the purpose of discussing with the executing agencies Bank
procedures and project objectives. Bank specialists will be
invited as necessary; and



-  145  -                        AnneX -3,2
Page 6 of 10
c.    Auhiting: auditing procedures will be reviewed and discussed,
stressing the value of auditing as a monitoring tool for the
Government. The capacity of the PCU to manage effectively and
timely the auditing process will be analyze receiving feedback
from the executing agencies.
Adeauacv of Counterpart Fundina for ImDlementation
Yearly budgets will be reviewed to enoure appropriate counterpart funding and
compliance with project objectives. This exercise will be carried out together
with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Planning, Agriculture, Public
Works, IDA, and SEPSA. The project's impact on the overall public sector
budget and its contribution to the Government's public sector reform program
(to be addressed under a possible SAL III operation) will be also analyzed.
The Government's commitment to the project objectives will be reviewed, and
adjustments to the project's financing plan will be made accordingly.



-  146  -                                      Ann  12
Page 7 of 10
CoSTA R ICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Sunervision Schedule
Table 1. InstitutIonal Devetoament
Institutional
Development                                         l
Focus/Product                   Responsibilfty                    Bank Supervision Tasks
1. Social and                   PCU, SEPSA, Sector         Review TORs for each phase of TA and
Economic Sector              Organizations              training; review and evaluate initial
Analysis                                                products defining requirement for sector
analysis.
2. Budgeting and                                           Review TORs for each phase of TA and
Financiat                                              training; review and evaluate proposed
Management                                              system design.
3. Institutional                SEPSA, Sector              Review TORe and contracting of consultants.
and Team                     Organfzations
Development                                                                                             II
4. Computerized                  SEPSA, Sector             Review proposed approach and objectives of
AgricuLtural                 Organizations,             each phase of TA and training; evaluate
Information                  OGEC                      proposed network design and functions;
Network                                                 review TORs, contracting of consultants, and
procurewent.
5. Special Studies              CAN, SEPSA,                Provide input to definition of policy and
Sector                    program areas to be studied; review TORs and
Organizations             contracting of consultants.
6. Organization                  NAG,                      Review TORs and provide input to design TA
and Team                     IDA                       program.
Development,
Strengthening                                          Review report and discuss/agree
Delegation of                                           implementation plans.
Functions to
the Regions                                                                                             l
7. Management of                NAG, IDA
Human and
Physical
Resources
(e.g. ratio-
nalization of
staffing
pattern,
improvement
of vehicle
management)
B. Financial                     NAG                       Review proposed approach and objectives of
Management                                              TA and training; review TORe and contracting
and Adhin-                                              of consultants.
istrative
Systems                                                 Review reports and discuss/agree
implementation plans.
9. Management                    IDA
Information
Systemn
10. Organization                 IDA
and Application



-   147   -                                 Annex  12
Page 8 of 10
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COST8 gRIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. S.uervision Schedule
Civil Works
Step                   Product               Responsibility       B 8ank Supervision Task _       |
Engineering             Technical Design          MOPT, IDA                Review technical design and
Consulting Firms         specification to ensure
compliance with engineering
standards and agreed
conditions.  A total of 15
reviews are expected.
Environmental           Technical Report          NOPT/IDA/Consulting      Assess environmental impact of
Assessment                                        Fires                    the settlement consolidation
civil works according to Bank
guidelines.  The Bank would
review the technical reports
and carry out checks during
l_______________________                           supervision.
Procurement             Bidding                   PCU, MWOPT, IDA, NAG     Review sample bidding
Document/Contract                                 documents.  It is expected
that about 65 contracts will
be awarded under LCB. The
first six contracts (2 for
communal facilities, and 2 for
laboratory remodellng) will
receive prior review, and 15
post review during
l_____________________    supervision.
Road Maintenance        MOPT/Community            NOPT                     It is estimated that about 40
Agreement                                         agreements would be signed
between MOPT and communities
within IDA settlements.  The
Bank will review about 15 of
them during supervision.
Field checks of status of
rural roads maintenance will
also be carried out during
supervision.
Disbursement             SOEs                     MOPT/IDA/MAG             Special assistance in the
preparation and processing of
SOEs would be required, due to
the lack of experierce of the
implementing agencies. A
disbursement officer will help
during supervision (6
staffweeks) to resolve
specific problems.
PLanning                Goods Packages/           PCU and                  Review proposals for the
Technical                Implementing             packaging of goods in
Specifications           Agencies                 accordance with procurement
(NAG, SEPSA, IDA)        guidelines and limits as
defined in Loan Agreement.
Assist the executing agencies
in the preparation of sanple
bidding documents.



Annen 12
-   148  -                             Page 9 of 10
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  . Sup arvion Plan
Goods (fEuige-nt. Vehicloe and Mst risls)
Step                 Product             Responsibility      Bank Superv7sion Took
Procuroemnt               Bidding             SEPSA, and IDA         About 20 contracts are
Document/                                     expected to be awarded
Contract                                   under LCB. Tho remaining
contracts for an estimated
USS1B.O million will be
under ICB procedures. All
IC3 and 2 LCB contracts
will be subject to prior
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ __.  rov iew .
Disbureoment           SOEo                   PCU, MAC, SEPSA and   Spot checks would be
IDA                    carried out during
s upervislon.
Table 4   Supervion Plan
Service Packages (Land Titling. land Use Classification Proaram.
o hQrcation of Reserve Areas)
Stop                 Product             Responsibility         Bank Supervision Toak
Planning               Action Plan            SEPSA/IDA              Roview proposals and assist
SEPSA s Interdisciplinary
working team to prioritize
invoestment and human
resource allocation in
aecordance to project
objoctives and Bank
procurement guidelines.
Procuremnt            Bidding                 SEPSA/IDA              Bank staff will asesit the
Document/                                     imploenting agoncies In
Contract                                      the preparation of ICB
bidding documents. About 4
contracts would be awarded
under LCB, 2 of them would
roceive prior review, and
about 10 contracts are
*xpected to be awarded
under SCB, all of them
roquirlng prior reviow.
Implomentation        Reception of Works    SEPSA, IDA               Flold chocks and review of
reports, maps,
demonetration plots, and
metoorologlcal stations.
During supervision progress
on land titling proceduroes
would be followed to ensure
compliance with *areement
conditions.



-   149   -                                      Annex  12 _
Page 10 of 10
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5. Sumnarv of Bank Supervision Input over Full Project Imptlementation Perio
Step                                     Task                            Time Altocation
Planning (4X)                       Review                                        5 staftweeks
Programing (19.0X)                  - Project Launch Workshop                     9  staffweeks
- Annual Project Review and                  14 staffweeks
Planning Workshop                          4  staffweeks
- Mid-term evaluation                                                     l
Engineering (4X)                                                                  5 staffweeks
Procurement (21X)
Bidding Documents                  Review/Assistance                             10 staffweeks
Contracts                          Post/Prior Review                             8 staffweeks
Maintenance                        Review/Assistance                             4 staffweeks
Enviroiwnental                     Review                                        8 staffweeks
Assessment
loplementation W  (45%)             - Civil Works                                 10 staffweeks
- Technical Assistance                       22 staffweeks
- Training                                   14 staffweeks
- Land Use Classification                    12 staffweeks
Program
- Demarcation of Reserve                     6  staffweeks
Areas
Disbursement (7X)                   -Review                                       3 staffweeks
- Processing                                 7 staffweeks
Total                                                                        141 staffweeks b/
q/   Twelve supervision missions (64 staffweeks).
Wl   Corresponding to an average of 16.3 staffweeks per year--excluding an average of 4 staffweeks per year
for the Project Launch and Annual Review Workshops, and Mid-Term Evaluation.
Table 6. Estimated Schedule of Annual Bank Supervision Inout
Percentage of
Bank Fiscal                 Staffweeks                   Cumulative                Total Project
Year                                              Staffweeks                     Supervision
Time Assigned
_____ _____ ____   __ _by    Year
1992                         19                          19                          13X
1993                         26                          45                         18X
1994                         30                          75                         21X
1995                         22                          57                          16X
1996                         18                         115                          13X
1997                         12                         127                          9X
1998                          3                         135                          6X
1999                          6                         141                          4X



COSTA RlICA
TAba ld* lr~  Md Tr*bm Sdwdulo I
QdsoC~-dom ri bwh l.~d    3A43 Pb Aw,.m Prb C.oatbowcc¶ 2f
F     I              {          ~~~~~~        ~      ~     ~~Yos I   yen 2    fYost 3                                    Yea 4                         Tam s5           f          *(os67                        T(OSPI
Convanal               ~~FAMorsg    TCsa CO        PJNw!ut        Toto Cadt      PIMObs         TOsW Cool      P/Moos!        TOW Cosn       P/moAbt        TOWa Ccst      P/Mton        Teag Cos       PJMwIs        1Tea  Cost
1. Land Ube      bfnwlt           42         SIOJiaD          93            ,33.0           26            64,WD           67             -O.                           -3 -j
I son M1          Low             2?          33.03           I3I            30.00W         I1             33.W                         30.0W           II            33006.                                       71             tx
v-v
3. SOS.o         LoosE             I          23.0            23             94.6           a             1232?.0         55MM.6                       53             353.05         363                   2        105  7       UP
4. bkog3wIm       Low              4          32.60           i6            41ja            34            42.3?           It            32.00           4             12.60                  -                     49             347.2?
tbw.bg-          awo!            3          36.0w            S              06,0                         71.60           4            A,00M                                   -                                  23             3.3        
F~~~~~~ds3                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U'~~~~~~~39A    39w
I~~~w!~~~~   ~~~   -          - ~~~~3                      360W            --                                -          -                     -              -                                    3              36,6
6. bSwaow1n       LowE              6         1.0             43            1324.0          93            17,000          49            14.060         25             I05.6D           13           29.05         336            421,00
1&-t$            arnwu            3         3"Am            to            392.6           25            29.000          34            564.0          -               -                     -                     2             @5.6
1. ?"*ae          LOWa             I4N30                       413.0                        3              0.5            64            303.60         64             36.0            la           VOW.6          2              7SM.W
TA (se %Iek&   &kiosdaw         4s         563.W           333          1.444,OW         303          1.212.0W         65         j  .014.0W                                                                                  4.5.0WD
i Toblam  fmbr dheosuua   dob Weatdon dpo  vilodbmaTsh3.1 Ip            IkSR  '= Yo     __ __           _____ l        ______   ______  j  L35    I.laooSRdom i                           264       564.0Wa }Ps"   3 of_
12, amvbwn - . ost3or.
Coisa barto  Inwoefa med MWoCWve oWl.



t*b 2. Tw%&9 AJ_ ad Tukhf Sdatw It
dkmh. Cwg-dm  b0ob 3ASS    m &M-hi     AV
Tm2mt I                                          . 2      . 3        -                            Y4w 5                TOW 4.7             TOTAL
Q uI Todj Co_  Q           Tls Ca     QAbyf dQ Cd          Q8k  Tl  CysG   QAlt           To Cl       mt
I L d . t _ t                              3l T _E      3       a  ..                I                    tl a                 _                   41        rm W  
NoT d
C-A
anT pE     _         _       12        36O       12         37.MDO      _        _          _         _          _                   24 
OT?Phu     2       24.D      2         24,=                             _                                                                        W _  _  _  _  5
.~~~~~~~T0 of
2. LS TIhIq   lua       10       m         14W  t   1 1        26        12,2D       tO        MAN       10        Som _    _                                1M0t
cid
.                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
OlipA.     2       75.4295   6   t Z15           32        33.0   _        _    SfO        S          M                              26        330
3.A .k M i    F ad        _        _        _         _         _                    4        7 s9m      4         25. 3       2                    100       d421
Dk          TnW
Otipr      -        _        4         3z2,e     le         33mD      13        39,90      4         12,         _         _         31        v5.03
anPIM     -        _         2         2M        4          4MW        3          0 _     _          -          -                    9         18lce
c_aU



*1,       I          __I -
U    3    .                     -    4- I
__ -- ---- - -5 I.4 
l fi                      I    I    . I3  
*<S I                                                     I
_ I ___  ,_ { _ i 
- _____-   e X 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~ P £
- ZSt -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



[ 01 X i    f   I  X } Xi  f   I  [1 [i    
I  _I      I   j  _       _ I  I    t
U~~~~~   ~             _   11
~~~~I     I      I .       1   S <E
-Lt .1             X=  .1
'  S   '  '  l  '  '   ' g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
W   J   u   "   W   Y   ^   *   ;  l   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_ i. _____  
Esz-     --___       .-       -  -r  -___ 



_______________ -                            ~T AWI    Tog       s"   NWTf             f        e
MNAStIc4 VA  1                  3.<"  bt ma   r,d_ cmk
Taw I                         Ta _                            War 3                         Y .r 4                        Ye  5                         Taw 6S7                        STCYA
;  ._-. =    - - - -    _                                                                                                                         _                                                     =   -
tL t                Forma                            _          5             2,0W             5             22              5             2,0W5 I                        170                      _              D                     0 13,0
Dmld    T,*                       _                                                         _                                                                        '_
1  AcO_. No. of
ad
ti. Aadctultwo      3'o,u             s          3011w           3            84,4w            S             63,3             5             0.3W             5           43.3W            10            330,0W          33             MA,dw
stmuch            TamIng
No.t                                                                                                                                                                            I
l~ C                                                              _                                                               _                                      .                                                                     I
1-J pr           30         93.11           30            93,10           25            19,1W0          25             t9,t3           25            79,D0)                         132,IA         175            55t,11      .
Loca lI.
O11 Pot          3          31,0W           3             31.0W           2             26,0             2             26.0W            2             ,26             3.S           44.101          15.5          t892
hfmndma1
312. A|kuo          Flnmal            4          20.,0W          4            2m,m             2             1%0=0           3              12,1             3           32,1              6             25,26          2        D
No. of
I              I~~Cam__ _                                                                                             __    
0on pma          12         37,3            12            37,26D          a             2,2              a             26,              8            2               15,0  33       39.0           6              190,=      |
Lasi
1 | rOT p        1.2        15,W0           L.2           35,26            I            II,CCD           I              1_ ,_           .6           8,260            1             12,00           6             7b,2
lboSu                                                    .       _         --                         _.                          __                          -__
1  Tohtat    ford adm w sb l anm'-     hinb ic b pdot d s t Tal3.(31p 40, SA) Smmw of p            Am  amaa.' T. i in bame 8Tebua Aeslem aga  in Tb  3.1  of lb SAR 6=   aclTA. so b ptod&d so    of
of do 'moim pwbtc' CeMy.
3/ Ceme, t o  inw~ ad aca,u  *a.t



COSTA RIA
Tshh 3. Tcdn&s A _mm mi T A S            U
(swarm Cao.-dac no b        3AS   PrA Pm_M C      #acm  2
i                      _         =Yew I       Yen 2                      Year3                      Y  _4                      TM 5 |Y    6.7                                       TOTAL
____I___                                                            ___ 1Td                 Ce Q=f| TOW CZ ;     |   Tad C I  CM  I  I TOW Cea   Q I  Td Can  I           _                  Q_I    TOW _
___                                    ___                     _            _            __                 _ __                                   ..                   Iz.h
suTTAL            U) pu          66        23.6          to6         V%2D    .D                 46.49        0 I'M         56l,           83a        2.7,
(2A FMOn T        Lout
TRANG AAMD 
TA NOT
aT TAIG           on p_           22                     4.2         s37           34           49,M           8           216,)           7.6        939.5                      3             2365        3655
A edar TA     1n    T 3 99S S                     419           3D           4M, 4    D    210              0          I8          484           24           564.4                     2 1
All dlbe TA   49  tal4                123        2,444.9m       101    4     ,212m09        es         1,024,00-                                                            355         4.253,m
TOTAL           jAll           265.2    1,254*M        5242        295               __         2            43                            6 2   | W273 7553          . ^>  |             |2|.6412,3
TOTAL             Foml       |  37    1398,3       1    71       5|      0                      53,30         75                          5                          8 8S  |   _165 0          VA
I No, c IIIIIIIIIII                                                                                                                                                       II 
TRA'             1;- 1T                1         1                 I       _       _    _ I _         _ 1_                               _     _      _         I_ I                           _        
*_   _          _   _    _1i      i            i   _   _        _   _       ;_    _;i-_-   _  _ _      =     4     6   2     _          a                    _   _    _     t   _         _   _         _  _
TOTAL            | Eal       |  12    |36,W0D   |   1             |fo9w             9        |27,tJDD          7        |20,tOW           4       1  I,..=      |                -         I   CS        §  M5) }
.    MCS           tl_hsl ioo      2         24AM    1      2          30        1   4           1 Zt00D         2.5         3 XX           2           24X           -            -              13       ;  1=
GRAND TOTAL     j All        j            ,1,t                     3,dK400         -        j3,170,8      j  -         j 27181Wm         -        j ,1MlX                      1 -045=         -        |17
It Tee cm fe IXrkd  uaittmb h MoImr Om  kt pgae I Tab.1 .(., 4  SA  'Sinsmy ci Fmiocd  A.z w.' ThI I k          iz Toem2 AwIu= catl      to IT    3.1 ei thI SARl doe rtbIle T.A t. be pom   ad p  of
ciii , 'mivia V~bg~ uCgu.
zi co   *DI- a es ' tamt
!' Tafrmuia h PW, P   I1 d A    12. S,
z<95XpeMhd_hSMi



-  156  -                            Annex 14
Page 1 of 7
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Sector Investment Plan
1.          The project aims at increasing public sector efficiency in
producing and delivering needed services improving scarce public resource
allocation. The Government's overall target is to bring the public investment
program in agriculture to an average of 1Z of GDP equivalent to approximately
5 of agricultural value added. In 1989 capital expenditures in agriculture
were the equivalent of 0.5Z of GDP, while current expenditures were at the
level of 0.9Z of GDP. By 1988 the only sector expenditure that increased
consistently was that of wages and salaries, whose share rose from 22% of
current expenditures in 1983 to 471 in 1986.
2.          The shift in expenditure allocation towards wages and salaries has
significantly affected the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector
institutions. As an example, IDA's inability to achieve its goals of land
titling and settlement consolidation responds to some degree to overstaffing
and centralization of personnel and expenditures in San Jose.
3.          The weaknesses in planning and coordination of sector institutions
have resulted in a public investment program which does not respond to sector
priorities. The Ministry of Planning (MIDEPLAN) has taken major
responsibility in sector projects coordination (Table 5). Past experience
shows that MIDEPLAN's performance has been poor because of managerial
weaknesses, inadequate budgetary support, and the perception of the sector
implementing agencies considering the Project Coordination Unit--within
MIDEPLAN--as a bureaucratic layer that does not materially contribute nor
respond to specific project objectives.
4.          Improving the sector's planning capacity to put forward
appropriate policy proposals, control over spending and decentralizing
personnel and functions, would improve the scope and impact of the sector's
public investment program. Tables 1-5 present a summary of the Government's
investment plan for the period 1990-1995.



COSTA RICA
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1. Summary of Covernuents, 2990-1995 Investment Plan -by Sector Milnistries'.
(USI'0)
Cumulative 1990                           Prograsmed 1991                            Programed 1992
Sector Ministry          Local        Foreign        Total          Local        Foreign   | Total           Local        Foroign   |       Total
Science and                1,637.0       2,707.1      4,244.1        3,213.6        6,887.2    9,100.8       3,066.4       5,670.3         8,938.7
Technology            __         _ _
Agriculture               31,183.9      77,935.7    109,099.6       12,681.2     _ 64,416.7   76,996.9       12,623.3     38,331.9        S0,956.2
Industry and                 242.4           0.0        242.4          784.9        1,984.8    2,749.7         201.7       1,984.8         2,186.6
Comerce
Natural Resources        233,471.6    163,428.9    isy6,900.6       68,521.7      122,237.4  188,759.1       68,625.1     69,687.8       128,492.9
Energy and Mines                                  I
Public Works and          19,788.2       5,305.6     26,153.8       12,727.0       24,676.8   37,403.8      21,307.3    .45,687.4         60,894.7
Transport                                 _          __,_-
Health                    74,919.4      54,732.4    129,651.8       19,463.3        1,886.6   21,348.9      20,662.0       1,685.4        22,337.4         1
Education and Human       8,881.4         941.2       9,822.6        3,873.6        6,722.4    9,396.0       1,950.4           0.0        1,858.4         5
Resources                                                                                                              _
Culture and                   14.2        428.6         442.7            0.0          262.3      252.3           0.0           0.0            0.0         I
Recreation                         _  __
Labor and Social            258.0           0.0         265.0          116.7           0.0        116.7          0.0           0.0            0.0
Security                                                                                                       _        ___      _
Other Covern.ent          1,628.4           0.0       1,628.4        1,581.1           0.0    1,681.1            0.0          0.0             0.0
Servicei.
Information              42,312.3      14,132.6      68,444.8       17,242.4       7,976.8   26,11Q.2       13,501.7      14,621.9        28,023.8
(Telecommunications)                                                                                           -          _
Total Investment        414,216.8    319,671.9    733,888.7        137,886. S     234,938.0  372,823.6    131,933.9       1?7,849.5      309,683.4
Exchange Rate: Cumulative to 1990-4 0.70/USS
Progrommed-f 118.90/USS
The Investment program does not lnclude the Agricultural Sector Investment Project.                                                          0
Budget transfers for social and special program.s
O



Table 1. Su_sry of Covernment's 1990-1996 Investment Plan by Sector Mlinistries p/ (Cont.)
(USS '000)
Programed 1993                               Programmd 1994                             Programe d 1995
Sector Mlnistry           Local    |   Foreign   [    Total           Local    I   Foreign           Total         Local      Foreign         Total
Science and                  868.7       1,S97.9         2,4566 8          S8 7        1,69t 9         2,JS68 .e         .o                        o.o
.Technology                                                                                                                     0 0
Agriculture                9,497.2      68,914.1        88,411.3            0.0       16,632.7        16,332.7           0.0                  17,460.4
17,460.4
Industry and                 294.3       1,984.8         2,279.1            0.0        1,984.8         1,984.8          0.0                    1,988.0
Comnerce                                           _       _                                                   _               1,968.0
Natural Resources        101,416.2    108,922.4        210,337.8       37,944.0       68,867.8       104,801.6     35,320.9  65,057.8         90,378.7
Energy and Uines
Publisc  orks and         19,644.6      63,174.2        82,818.7       19,688.6       S8,731.9        76,318.5     25,059.4   59,348.0        83,405.4
Transport_ 
Health                    68,094.7      31,390.0        99,484.7       50,828.1      185,017.4       236,846.5      47,349.7   164,099.9    211,449.6
Education and Human        3,082.8      13,805.6        16,888.4          239.6       13,216.9        13,458.5        239.6   13,218.9       13,456.6       D
Resources            ____              ___
Culture and                    0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0        1,143.8         1,143.8          0.0   1,093.3          1,093.3
Recreation           _
Labor and Social               0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0             0.0
Security                                                                                                                                        _
Othor Covernment               0.0           0.0    _        0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0   0.0                 0.0
Services               __
Information               40,200.9      33,811.0        74,011.9       10,034.0      11,236.0        21,270.0      10,032.6   11,236.1        21,267.6
(Telecommunications)                I _I
Total Investment         243,088.3    313,800.0        556,688.3      119,291.0      353,319.0      472,610.0    118,002.1   322,467.4       440,469.6
Exchange Rate: Cumulativo to 19W0 - 0.70/USS
Programmed-- 118.90/USS
I/   The Investment program does not lnclude the Agricultural Sector Investment Project.                        
J/  Cudget transfers for social and special programs.
O 



- 159 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 7
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Share of the Total Investment Program by Sector Ministries m/
(US$'000)
Investment (1990-1995)
S-ctor Ministry                           Local             Foreign              Total
Science and Technology                         9,534.4           17,660.4            27,194.8
Agriculture                                   85,887.7          272,580.6           338,448.2
Industry and Commerce                         16,003.3            9,907.2            11,410.5
Natural Resouces                             633,298.5          688,371.9         1,119,670.4
Energy and Mines
Public Works and Transport                    93,731.7          263,881.9           347,813.6
Health                                       281,107.2          438,8io.7           719,917.9
Education and Human Resources                 17,973.4           46,903.0            64,878.4
Culture and Recreation                             14.2           2,917.9             2,932.1
Labor and Social Security                        374.7                0.0               374.7
Other Government Service kI                    3,209.5                0.0             3,209.5
Information                                  133,323.8           92,812.3           226,136.1
(Telecommunications)
Total Investment                           1,163,438.4        1,721,845.8         2,861,784.2
Exchange Rate: Cumulative to 1990--g 0.70/USS
Programmed--g 118.90/USS
The investment program does not include the Agricultural Sector Investment Project.
b/ Budget transfers for social and special programs.



- 160 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 7
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3. Summary of Government's 1990-1995 Investment Plan
by Sector Ministries rn
Investment          '
Sector Ministries
I____000 _)      Percentage
Science and Technology              27,194.8           1.0
Agriculture                        338,448.2          11.8
Industry and Commerce               11,410.5           0.4
Natural Resources, Energy        1,119,670.4          39.1
and Mines
Public Works and Transport         347,613.6          12.1
Health                             719,917.9          25.2
Education and Human                 64,876.4           2.3
Resources
Culture and Recreation               2,932.1           0.1
Labor and Social Security              374.7            .0
Other government services            3,209.5           0.1
Information                        226,136.1           7.9
(Telecommunications)
Total Investment                 2,861,784.2 ,      100.0
Exchange Rate: Cumulative to 1990-- 0.70/USS
Programmed-0 118.90/US$
a/ The investment program does not include the Agricultural
Sector Investment Project.



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4.  Sumnary of Government Investment Program
Agricultural Se-ctor Investment Program (Under Execution) by Institution !r
(USI '000)
1990-1992
Cumulative 90                         Programmed 1991                     Prograwmed 1992
lInstitution                                                                                                        l
___________  Local            Foreign    [Total          Local     I Foreign  [Total          Local                 | Total
IDA               2,947.1      16,858 4     19,805.5     1,290.1   25,0S4.7    26,354.8            0.0        0.0         0.0
CNP               4,142.7       1,034.2      5,178.9       262.3        47.9       300.2           0.0       48.7        48.7
SENARA            2,t 779.3     9,391-2     11,169.5     1,234.6   14,732.4    15,967.0        2,674.4   15,009.0   17,683.4
ICAFE               378.6           0.0        378.5       168.2         0.0       168.2           0.0        0.0         0.0
MIDEPLAN         18,483.7      48.720.8     67,204.6    6,835.4   19,029.0    26,ee4.4         6,117.3   15,061.8   21,21792.
UAG               2,433.8       2.931.1      5,364.7     3o000.6    5,541.7      8,542.3       3 831.6    8,212.4   12,044.0
Total            31,163.9      77,936.7    109,099.6    12,591.2   64,416.7    76,996.9       12,623.3   38,331.9   50,955.2
1993-199S
Programmed 1993                       PrograAmed 1994              1       Programmed 1995
Institution                I                   I                                                                                            I 
|stitt~n  Local   Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign         Total        Local     Foreign    Total
IDA                   0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0           0.0         0.0
CNP                   0.0          51.2         51.2         0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0           0.0         0.0
SENARA            2,106.6      40,298.0    42,402.8          0.0   13,816.2        13,616.2     0.0      13,615.3   13,616.3
ICAFE                 0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0     .0            0.0 I       0.0
MIOEPLAN          8,158.5      15,752.1     21,910.6         0.0    1 917.5         1,917.S     0.0       3,836.1    3,835.1
MAC               1,232.1       2,814.8      4,046.9         0.0         0.0            0.0     0.0           0.0         0.0
Total             9,497.2      58,914.1     88,411.3         0.0   15,532.7        15,532.7     0.0      17,460.4  1_7,450.4
!I    The investment plan does not Include the proposed Agrlcultural Sector Investment and Institutional Development Project.
0



- 162 -
Annex 14
CO3TA RICA                         Page 7 of 7
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5. Summary of Government Investment Program
Agricultural Sector Investment Program (under Execution) by Institution) !)'
TOTALS 1990-1995
l                        l                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total (1990-
Institution             Local              Foreign             1995)
IDA                     4,237.2             41,923.1             46,160.3
CNP                     4,395.0               1,182.0  .          5,577.0
SENARA                  8,793.9            105,659.1            114,453.0
ICAFE                      546.7                  0.0                546.7
MIDEPLAN                37,394.9            104,316.3           141,711.2
MAG                    10,500.0              19,500.0            30,000.0
Total                  65,867.7            272,580.5            338,448.2
Share of Key Sector Institutions on the Sector's Investment Program
-F   ITotal Programmed Investment 1990-1995 (US$'000)
-Institution     _Amount                               Percentage
IDA                                46,160.3                        15.0
CNP                                 5,577.0                         1.8
SENARA                            114,453.0                        37.1
ICAFE                                 546.7                         0.2
MIDEPLAN                          141,711.2                        45.9
MAG                                30,000.0                         9.7
Total                             308,448.2                       100.0
Exchange Rate: Cumulative to 1990--¢ 0.70/US$
Programmed--O 118.90/US$
2/    The investment plan does not include the proposed Agricultural Sector
Investment and Institutional Development Project.



- 163 -
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceede
I                 I    Disbursement (%)
|     _     _      _      __             _      ___Category  Amount  of Expenditures
Civil Works a/                       7,680,000       56%
Equipment                            6,400,000       100 %of foreign
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures
Vehicles                             3,600,000       100 %of foreign
expenditures and 80 %of
local expenditures
Technical Assistance                 6,400,000       100%
Training and Studieb                 1,900,000       100%
Special Studies                        250,000       100%
Services                             8,970,000
1.  Land Titling Program           4,680,000      100%
2.  Land Use Classification        3,990,000      100%
Program                                                                 l
Voucher Program                      1,800,000       Up to US5  450,000: 100%
Up to US$  85C,000:  80%
Up to US$1,200,000:  60%
Up to US$1,500,000:  40%
Up to US$1,650,000:  20%
Up to US$1,800,000:  10%
Unallocated                          4,000,000                                 l
Total                        41,000,000
A/  Includes US$1.68 million for Demarcation of Reserve Areas.



- 164 -
Annex 16
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Bank   |                         | Disbursement    Cumulative 1
Fiscal                                 During          Amount      Balance of
Year             Quarter             Quarter         Disbursed       Loan
41.0
1992       March 31, 1992 a/            2.5              2.5           38.5
June 30, 1992                0.8              3.3           37.6
1993       September 30, 1992           0.8              4.1           36.9
December 31, 1992            0.8              4.9           36.1
March 31, 1993               2.4              7.3           33.7
June 30, 1993                2.4              9.6           31.4
1994       September 30, 1993           2.4             12.0           29.0
December 31, 1993            2.4             14.4           26.6
March 31, 1994               2.3             16.7           24.3
June 30, 1994                2.3             19.0           22.0
1995       September 30, 1994           2.3             21.3           19.7
December 31, 1994            2.3             23.6           17.4
March 31, 1995               1.7             25.3           15.7
June 30, 1995                1.7             27.0           14.0
1996       September 30, 1995           1.7             28.7           12.3
December 31, 1995            1.7             30.4           10.6
March 31, 1996               1.2             31.6            9.4
June 30, 1996                1.2             32.8            8.2
1997       September 30, 1996           1.2             34.0            7.0
December 31, 1996            1.2             35.2            5.8
March 31, 1997               1.0             36.2            4.8
June 30, 1997                0.8             37.0            4.0
1998       September 30, 1997           0.8             37.8            3.2
December 31, 1997            0.8             38.6            2.4
March 31, 1998               0.6             39.2            1.8
June 30, 1998                0.6             39.9            1.2
1999       September 30, 1998           0.6             40.4            0.6
December 31, 1998            0.6             41.0           (0.0)
a/   Represents the initial deposit in the Special Account.
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sumnary
Co_  lowe '0                               $1000                                % TMW
COMPONENTS                                                                                                 % FBren         me.
-Local        Foreign       TOW           Local        Foreign      Tota      Excww         Costa
INSTrI1TONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. SEP  - INST. 0EV.                    191.585        85,904       277,489         1,624         728       2352         31.0           3.9
2. MkG- INST. DEVELOP.                    70,765         8,496        79,261          600           72         672        10.7           1.1
3. IDA - INST. DEVELOP.                  372290        108,041       480,331         3,155         916       4,071        22.5           6.7
4. LAND USE CLASSIFICATION               279,535       488,109       767,644         2,369        4,137      6,506        63.6          10.7
5. DEMARCATION RESERVE AREAS             481,582       121,162       602,744         4,081        1,027      5,108        20.1           8.4
6. AGRIC. INFORM. NETWORK                140,632      321,076        421,708         1,192       2,382       3,574        66.7           5.
7. SPECIAL STUDIES                            0         29,500        29,500            0          250         250       100.0           0.4
8. GOVr. LABOR MOBILIZ. PROG             684,400            0        684,400         5,800           0       5,800         0.0           9.5
9. DIVESTITURE CNP                        70,600            0         70,800          600            0         600         0.0           1.0
.                                                                          H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Sub*Total                            2,291,588     1,122,289     3,413,877        19,420       9,511      28,931        32.9          47.5         u
AG RESEARCH & EKTENSION
1. AGRKCULTURAL RESEARCH                 259,377       479,999       739,376         2,198       4,068       6,266        64.9          10.3
2 AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                  79,333       229,397       308,731          672         1,944      2,616        74.3           4.3.
3. VOUCHER PROGRAM                       484,449            0        484,449         4,106           0       4,106         0.0           6.7
Sub>Total                                 823,159       709,396      1,532t556        6,976        6,012      12,988       46.3          21.3
C. LAND TITUNG & SErTLEMENT
1. LAND TITUNG                            41,300       513,300       554,600          350        4,350       4,700        92.6          _7
2. ROADS                                 752,793       326,789     1,079,582         6,380        2,769      9,149        30.3          15.0
3. COMMUNITY SERVICES                    291,090       319,944       611,034         2,467        2,711      5,178        54             85
Bul>Total                             1,085,183    1,160,034     2,245,216         9,197       9,831      19,027        51.7          312
otalBASEUNE COSTS                       4,199,931     2,991,719     7,191,649       35,593       25,354      60,948        41.6         100.0
Physkd Cingencies                        129,915       184,311       314226          1,101        1,562     2663         58.7           4.4
Pdce ConnGenes                           466,564       285,722       752Z286         3,954       2,421       6,375        38.0          10.5
otaiPROJECTS COSTS                      4,796,410     3,461,752     8,258,161       40,648       29,337      69,985        41.9        114.8



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Proiect Costs by Financier and Disbursement Category
on thousands of US dollars)
WORLD BANK         PRODUCERS         GOVERNMENT           TOTAL
Amount     %      Amount    %        Amount     %      Amount      %                   LoFor  Local
A. Civ  Works a/                                   7,436.6   46.7       0.0    0.0      8,470.8   53.3    15,907.4  2Z.7      5,008.9    10,869.5
B. Equipment & Materials bI                        7,785.5   98.7       0.0    0.0       103.6    1.3      7,889.1   11.3    7,371.1       518.0
C. Vehices                                         3,539.3  100.0       0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0      3,539.3    5.1     3,539.3        0.0
D. Technical Assistance                            7,268.9  100.0       0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0      7,268.9   10.4     3,187.9    4,081.0
E. Training & Studies                              2,064.5  100.0       0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0      2,064.5    2.9      148.3     1,9162
F. Special Studies                                  271.9  100.0        0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0       271.9    0.4       271.9         0.0
G. Services Packages                              10,671.4   89.0       0.0    0.0      1,324.5   11.0    11,995.9   17.1     9,809.5    2,186.4
G.1 Land  lring Program                          4,939.7  100.0       0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0      4,939.7    7.1     4,559.5      380.2
G.2 Land Use Classification Program              4,045.9  100.0       0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0      4,045.9    5.8     4,045.9        0.0
G.3 Demarcation of Reserve Areas                 1,685.8   56.0       0.0    0.0      1,324.5   44.0     3,010.3    4.3     1,204.1     1,8062
H. Incremental Expenses                            1,961.9   41.1     807.7   16.9    2,001.8   42.0       4,771.4    6.8        0.0     4,771.4
J. Miscellaneous Counterpart                          0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0      6,539.3  100.0     6,539.3    9.3        0.0      6,539.3
K. Operatng Costs c/                                  0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0      9,73687   100.0    9,736.7   13.9        0.0     9,736.7
Total Project Costs                               41,000.0   58.6     807.7    1.2    28,176.7   40.3   C6984.4 100.0    29,336.9    40,647.5
o Includes routine road mantanhce and housing for oommunity sekvies to be financed enirely by the Govemment
bl 100% of foreign cost and 80% of local.
c/ Itcludes incrementa expenses of IDA!s decentrbizaion program.
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTiTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by Proiect Component
In thousards of US dollars)
WORLD BANK        PRODUCERS        GOVERNMENT         TOTAL
_______ ______ Amount   % a/   Amount   %  Amount   % a/   Amount   % bl   Foro    Loca
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   15,149.8   47.8      0.0   0.0   16,535.0   522    31,684.8   45.3   10,558.5   21,126.3
1.SEPSA                                       2,390.3  91.4       0.0   0.0       225.1    8.6    2,615.4    3.7      796.5    1,818.9
2. MAG                                         278.7   37.8       0.0   0.0       459.2   62.2      737.9    1.1       78.3      659.6
3. IDA                                        1,253.2   27.3      0.0   0.0    3,337.0   72.7    4,590.2    6.6    1,040.9    3,549.3
4. LAND USE CLASS. & EROSION CONTROL          5,530.7   78.3      0.0   0.0    1,536.9   21.7    7,067.6   10.1    4,483.7    2,583.9
5. DEMARCATION OF RESERVE AREAS               1,685.8   28.8      0.0    0.0    4,177.1   71.2    5,862.9    8.4    1,204.1     4,658.8
6. AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION NEIWORK           3,739.2   92.8      0.0   0.0       290.9    72      4,030.1    5.8    2,683.1    1,347.0
7. SPECIAL STUDIES                             271.9  100.0       0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0       271.9    0.4      271.9        0.0
8. GOC LABOR MOBILIZATION PROGRAM                0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0    5,898.6  100.0    5,898.6    84          0.0    5,898.6
9. DIVESTITURE OF SOME CNPACTIV.                 0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0       610.2  100.0      610.2    0.9        0.0      6102
B. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION           10,744.1   72.4    807.7   5.4    3,288A    22.2   14,840.2   212       6,868.8    7,971.4
1. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                      6,118.1   862       0.0   0.0       983.5  13.8    7,101.6   10.1    4,657.0    2,444.6
2. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                     2,664.1   89.8      0.0   0.0       303.1   102      2,9672    42      2,211.8     755.4
3. VOUCHER PROGRAM                            1,961.9   41.1    807.7  16.9    2,001.8   42.0    4,771.4    6.8         0.0    4,771.4
C. LAND TrTUNG & SETTLEMENT CONSOUDATION       15,106.1   64.4      0.0   0.0    8,353.3   35.6   23,459.4   33.5   11,909.6   11,549.8
1. LAND TIrUNG                                5,517.5  100.0      0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0    5,517.5    7.9    5,137.3       380.2
2. RURAL ROADS                                6,155.2   53.0      0.0   0.0    5,457.9  47.0   11,613.1   16.6    3,458.5    8,154.6
3. COMMUNITY SERVICES                         3,433.4   54.3      0.0   0.0    2,895.4   45.7    6,328.8    9.0    3,313.8    3,015.0
*,C_ALPROJECTCOSTS                             41,000.0   58.6     807.7   1.2   28,176.7   40.3   69,984.4  100.0   29,336.9   40,647.5
a/ Financing as a percentage of te total cost of the subomponent
b/ Cost of each suboomponert as percentage of total project cost
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
(D



COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(US$'OOO)
Yeart         Yoar2         Year3         Y4           Yeas         Yw6        Yew    I    Tow
NOSTWUTINAL OEVELOPMENW
1. SEPSA INST. DEV.                          191           508           562           476          271        232         113          2,352
2. MAOG -MT.DEVELOP.                          37           216           144           169           43         31          31           672
3. IDA - INST. DEVELOP.                      678           768           557           558          521        502         484          4,071
4. LAND USE CLASSIFICATiON                  1,566         1,995         1,370        1,19B          502          0           0          6,506
5. DEMARCATION RESERVE AREAS                 448          1,494         1,426          763          508        468           0          5,108
6. AGRIC. WOR.A NETWORK                      115          1,22D0         912           709          390        2Z8           0          3,574
7. SPECIAL STUDIES                            35            55            75            50           35          0           0           250
8. GOVT. LABOR MOBILUZ PROG                 5,800            0             0             0            0          0           0          5,800
9. DIESTffURE CNP                            600             0             0             0            O          0           0           600
Sutota                                      9,471         6,256         5,046         3,922        2272        1,462        629         2932
S. AG RtESEARCH & EXTENSION
1. AGRPIULTURAL RESEARCH                    1.940         1,376         1,351          474          385        385         354         6266
2. AGRCULTURAL EXT`ENSION                    718           703           479           187          182        176         173          2616
3. VOUCHER PROGRAM                           143           321           461           596          750        863         974          4,106
SubtW                                    2,t800       2400          2291          12           1,317      1,423       1,500        1,988
LAND TALUNG & SETnEBMENT
1. LAND TTUiNG                              280          1.320         1,720          925          455           0          0          4,700
2 ROADS                                      23           444          1,083         2,026        1,792       1,971      1,811         9,149
3. COMMUNITY SEFRVCES                        518         1,036         1,036         1,036         777         518         259         5,178
tubotolal                                 821           ,00          3,838         3,987       3.024       2,488       ,070         19,027
otmIBASEUNE COSTS                          13.092        11,455       11,175         9,165        6,612       5,374      4,?98         60,946
Phyds  Conting s                            304           631           590           383          284         261        210          Z663
PrwoeCotlncies                              228           623          1,028         1,187         111       1,139       1,071         6.375
ot PROJECT COSTS                           13.623        12709       t1793          10,735        7,07        6.773      5,479        69,985
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>



C710 COCO ISLAND      T5! | '                                                                                                                                               RonaR 2311
5O8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~NICARAGUA  84AT
- i          *1 _5  '           o >N I C  A R A G  U A                                          '.                         I      HONDURAS,
o O,      5 UlE5S       '0    <_?[ .1       .9a            _      R                                                               P  SALVADOR   _ '
1%~~~ 110                                                                     NICARAGUA
1,7,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t2i Mt   X     .                              1    I;  
ISILOEER                                                                                                                                                       -21I?P~T    1'-__
I  ' 11 tA                            a9'                                       COSTA pI 1
t                             AG                                                                                                                                 J~~~~~~~~~
-   PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY                                                                                                                             PANAMA
RIVERS  3000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
90-  SELECTED ROADS
,,,RAILROADS                         x      EEAINI  EES                                          r
I     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                          A   N-A000      A
1 PROVINCE CAPITALS            .000                                ' 1                                                                      PANAMA
o     CITIES AND TOWNS
-~ . .=PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       o         20         40            M'l,s
0  20        40        ~~~~~~60Mie
°               s                100 Kilo.tes
Ti- Mo 00 b,0 Moored byi rhee KWd aoke E   shfl- odoo_oy (o #60 Co, a.  of
0,o reed.. 0000 ..COOorly o 16, P 1,f-boo. of Th. WoOtd Book 0000d O'l,'oS.
ooo5, 0- lOo 001 of Th.W.  Bk oOd0o U.Oo Iolo,,wfiooo Foo, Cm-fi-,oo ooyjodoo,o
00 0101001st00Of01Y  toO,   or   y    W-d t  O ,  Soo0 phRrCS  Of 000   bo8d5°-
860                                  85'                                   84'                                   8.30                                 820,J



IBRD 231 11
ICA RAG ARA6A dCOSTA  RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
INVESTMENT AND
C A R I 8 B E A N                  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
>? \ f < m ~~~~~~~~SEA
LAND CAPABILITY ZONES
[ZZX    .  AGRICULTURAL LAND W1TIH SLIGHT TO
MODERATE RESTRCTIONS
[Till]  LAND FOR PERENNIAL CROPS
.-PASTURE LANDS
E~~]LAND FOR FOREST PRODUCTION
,  <  |I=  LANDF ORNATURAL REGENERATION
(TnINDIGENOIUS RESERVES
PROTECTED AREAS
URBAN AREAS
0      SELECTED TOWNS
PROVINCE CAPITALS
>  ,   1   P A N A M  A                 '     NATIONALCAPITAL
MAJOR ROADS
PACIFIC                                                                                                                 PROVINCE  ROUNDARIS
CO C E A N                                                                                                  -          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0   0    20    20 4
N      IILES                                                                                                                                                         KOLOMEERSp
lS 7LOMEE'jXs#
TNl op 4b- prepood A The *,,ld ''-kI
sloP _xlsvl o Iecooo. of r_dos -nd
me uoueol frle tooo   o :Tho Word BonE
b_Cou_do A-no on thiM orp donut i,pl 
IA. .9rt of t_h Wel   p, o r
_or poo 8f ou-h bor.3oe,Eo..
87r'o       87'oa    F'            40
JULY 1991



IBRD 23216
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
INVESTMENT AND
6N!   o-.\                                                             <                 CCARI1BBEAN                        INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
LIBERI                                                                                                                                        PROJ ECT
8 1k -9 gF  50  a                      \                   SEA                          INSTITUTO DE DESARROLLO AGRARIO (IDA)
SETTLEMENT PROJECTS
SErTLEMENTS
E~PRECARIOUS OCCUPATIONS
INDIAN RESERVES
020  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMNCOMPLETED TITLING PROGRAMS
G11TING PROGRAMS IN PROGRESS
/71PARKS AND RESERVES
0  SELECTED TOWNS
®E     PROVINCE CAPITALS
'.     NATIONAL CAPITAL
MAJOR ROADS
P A (: / ' I (:                        'v. -.    ;      .     ,       s                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
A< 'i'  _>  4 / w-  \   >   t                            INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
ISLA DE COCO                                                                                 -               '                                              cp            . 
2  MILES                                                                               '                                                                            .GLT LOMtEME
07tLOMtTERE                                   \              .       O  d >\,    -         Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIO4EE
E 33                                          Z ~~~~~ _./    .  r   u                              TtmHmePI h s lxtH+or tPheRcred #lar > Oe re.7del'Ie ee Se Sen pepe,d b Th WeI  eek
5-33'                                                                                                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ofeleel,f , lh  TeeeNeo of eed,6  end
-deeeloelpfe,Oh,-e-feleeeTh.eWoHddRe-
G,-p. The d-mfi.neee -end h.
-hopertof The  Id Ree Cp. 030
87'06'      07'03'   y32           ene,TI)'           eI-Je'              U'De               ff3=0'               07                                                                            6LGLET e99M



