Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13787
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COSTA RICA
Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project
(Loan 3447-CR)
DECEMBER 12, 1994
Agricultural and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (April 1991) US$1 = 118 Colones
Current (June 1994) US$1 = 153 Colones
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GATT          General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off." of Dfr.tet4swai
Opwatono Evaluation
December 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Note on Costa Rica
A.ricultural Sector Investment and Institutional Development Project (Ln. 3447-CR!
Attached is the Project Completion Note on Costa Rica-Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project (Loan 3447-CR) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. The loan, approved in March 1992, was allowed to terminate in April 1994 without
becoming effective.
The project objective was to support the country's sustainable agricultural growth by
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector institutions and their expenditures.
The Note reports that it was a mistake to have linked, through effectiveness conditions, broad
sector policy conditionality to the high priority and productive investments supported by the project.
Such policy environment should have been in place before the project was negotiated. The
fundamental problem was that Costa Rica's Legislative Assembly, which is required to approve
foreign loans, was not committed to reductions in import tariffs and quotas.
The PCN is satisfactory. The project is not rated and will not be audited.
Attachmentc
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln 3447-CR)
1.    This is a Project Completion Note for the Costa Rica Agricultural Sector
Investment and Institutional Development Project (Ln 3447-CR).
2.    Background. The project had its origin in the General Identification
Report and the Agricultural Sector Review prepared by the Food and
Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme in 1988 and 1989,
respectively. Following several preparation missions, the project was appraised in
April 1991. Negotiations were held October 7-11, 1991, temporarily suspended
due to a disagreement over the timing of agricultural trade and price reforms,
and completed on November 22, 1991. The World Bank Loan, for US$41.0
million, was approved by the Board March 19, 1992 and signed on April 10, 1992.
After several extensions of the Loan effectiveness deadline, the Loan was
allowed to terminate, without having become effective, on April 11, 1994. As
discussed below, the primary reason the Loan was terminated was Government's
failure to comply with effectiveness conditions related to the same agricultural
trade and policy issues that caused the temporary suspension of negotiations in
late 1991.
3.    Objectives. The objective of the project was to support Costa Rica's
sustainable agricultural growth by improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
public sector institutions and their expenditures. Specifically, the project was to:
(a)   Strengthen agricultural sector policy planning, evaluation and
monitoring capacity.
(b)   Shift public expenditures away from inefficient food distribution
and grain marketing operations towards growth enhancing services
such as agricultural research and extension, land titling and
settlement consolidation.
(c)   Develop an analytical framework for soil and crop management
policies and practices.
(d)   Contribute to poverty alleviation in rural areas by helping
regularize land rights and improve agricultural production of small
farmers.
(e)   Support implementation of sector reforms in areas of public
resource allocation, public sector management, decentralization
and private sector development.



-2 -
4.     Description. The Loan was to have financed specific investments, in
three components.
(a)   Institutional Development (45% of total project costs) to provide
technical assistance, training and equipment to relevant
Government agencies for agricultural sector planning and
budgeting, an agricultural and management information network,
land use classification and soil erosion programs, and demarcation
of national parks and reserves.
(b)    Agricultural Research and Extension (21%) to strengthen
technology transfer, especially for small farmers, including a pilot
voucher program for extension services.
(c)    Land Titling and Settlement Consolidation (34%) to finance land
tilting for 23,500 parcels and support consolidation of smallholder
settlements through the provision of basic rural infrastructure such
as road and communal facilities.
5.     Policy conditionality. In addition to these specific investments, there were
a number of policy conditions related to Government's role in the agricultural
sector and especially to trade and price policy. Although not directly linked to
project investments, these policy conditions were considered desirable as means
improve the overall performance of the agricultural sector. Most of the policy
reforms were satisfactorily carried out as conditions of appraisal, negotiations and
Board presentation. The most problematic of the policy conditions were
effectiveness conditions, where Government agreed to:
(a)    Eliminate all quota restrictions on the imports and exports of
basic grains and beans.
(b)    Establish a maximum 20% tariff on the importation of basic grains
and beans.
(c)    Eliminate price controls on basic grains and beans.
6.     As noted above, disagreements over the extent and timing of agricultural
trade and price reforms led to a temporary suspension of negotiations in late
1991. The above effectiveness conditions were part of the eventual agreement.
In addition, as a condition of Board presentation, Government issued a decree
providing for the above effectiveness conditions to be carried out not later than
June 30, 1992. As discussed below, despite this decree, the effectiveness
conditions related to agricultural trade and price policy were never confirmed by
the legislature, which was the primary reason the Loan was allowed to terminate.
7.     Legislative delays. Delays in project effectiveness have been a chronic
problem in Costa Rica; some World Bank Loans have taken two years (and some
IDB loans three years) to become effective. These delays are largely due to



-3-
lengthy legislative procedures that are required for any loan made by an
international entity such as the World Bank to the Republic of Costa Rica.
8.    In the case of the Agricultural Sector Investment and Institutional
Development Project, during 1992 and early 1993 effectiveness suffered from the
"normal' delays associated with the Costa Rican legislative approval process.
Then, starting in mid-1993, consideration of the project by the Legislative
Assembly began to be affected by the Presidential and Assembly campaign for
elections to be held in February 1994. As a consequence, Government's
commitment to some of the politically sensitive agricultural trade and price
policies related to project effectiveness weakened, especially in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, and Government decided not to advance the
Agricultural Project in the Legislative Assembly with the original conditionality.
9.    At the time of the September 1993 Annual Meetings, Government
requested the Bank to change the effectiveness conditions on tariffs, quotas and
price controls to dated covenants. In response, and as a compromise, the Bank
agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to delay imposition of the maximum 20%
tariff to November 1994, consistent with Costa Rica's commitment under GATT,
and Government agreed to retain the effectiveness conditions to eliminate quotas
and price controls on basic grains and beans. In addition, the effectiveness
deadline, which had been extended several times previously, was extended again,
to April 11, 1994, i.e., 2 years after Loan signing, and Government was advised
that this would be the final extension.
10.   Based on this agreement, the Government, on September 29, 1993,
advanced the authorizing legislation from the Agricultural Commission of the
Legislative Assembly to the floor of the Legislative Assembly itself. This was an
important action, which Government had been reluctant to undertake previously.
However, the legislation did not come to a vote before the February 1994
elections.
11.   Following the elections, the incoming government expressed its support
for the project. For example, the President-elect (who had been Minister of
Agriculture during early project preparation) wrote a letter to the incoming
leadership of the Legislative Assembly to give his support for the project.
12.   Unfortunately, although there finally appeared to be bipartisan political
support for the project, the new administration did not take over until May 1994
and the lame-duck session of the Legislative Assembly failed to approve the
project before the effectiveness deadline of April 11, 1994. One problem during
the final few weeks prior to the effectiveness deadline was that the Legislative
Assembly became embroiled in a controversy related to taxi licensing, which
caused other legislative business to be temporarily set aside.
13.   Shortly before the April 11, 1994 effectiveness deadline, representatives
of both the outgoing and incoming administrations wrote to the Bank requesting
one last extension of the effectiveness deadline. However, given that two years
had passed since Loan signing, and in accordance with standard policies



-4-
applicable to all Bank-financed projects, the Bank did not agree to this request
and the Loan was terminated on April 11, 1994.
14.   Project implementation. Despite the problems associated with the
effectiveness conditions dealing with trade and price policy, it is important to
note that the project was to have been a specific investment project; its
components were for: agricultural research and extension, land titling, rural
infrastructure and institutional development. These project investments remained
a high priority, were not questioned by either party, and remain necessary for
Costa Rica to meet its sector objectives. More important, the success of these
components would not have depended upon compliance with the trade and price
conditionality that were effectiveness conditions. Although the project did not
become effective, a number of project activities, not requiring legislative
approval, were carried out, especially with respect to institutional development.
Moreover, regular progress reports were submitted by the de facto Project
Coordinating Unit.
15.   Regular "supervision missions" took place and consistently concluded,
most recently in January 1994, that, despite the delays in Loan effectiveness,
significant changes in project design, and the investments financed by the project,
would not have been required if the project had become effective. Moreover,
the January 1994 mission determined that because of the progress in de facto
project implementation to date, as well as the good progress in the land titling
component in the on-going Costa Rica Atlantico Agricultural Development
Project (Ln 2764-CR), the project would likely have a satisfactory development
impact.
16.   Lessons learned. The primary lesson is that, in hindsight, it was a mistake
to have linked, through effectiveness conditions, broad sector policy
conditionality to the relatively unrelated high priority specific investments to have
been supported by the project. Moreover, even if it had been argued that an
improved policy environment was necessary for the success of project
investments, or necessary to justify Bank support for investments in the
agricultural sector, it would have been better to have ensured that such a policy
environment was in place before the project was approved, perhaps through
conditions of negotiations, rather than through conditions of effectiveness.
17.   Another lesson is that the legislative approval problems peculiar to be
Costa Rica need to resolved; they are being addressed through mechanisms such
as the Country Portfolio Performance Review process.



-5 -                               Annex
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT AND
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln 3447-CR)
Basic Information
Country:           Costa Rica
Project:           Agricultural Sector Investment and Institutional
Development
Loan number:       3447-CR
Estimated Project
Costs:            US$70.0 million
Loan amount:       US$41.0 million
Borrower:          Republic of Costa Rica
Implementing
agencies:         Executive Secretariat for Agricultural Sector Planning, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Agricultural
Development Institute and the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport
Beneficiaries:     50,000 farm families
On-lending terms:   Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Time taken to
prepare project:    3 years
Project appraisal:    April 1991
Completion of
negotiations:     November 22, 1991
Board presentation:  March 19, 1992
Loan signing:      April 10, 1992
Loan termination:   April 11, 1994



