Page  1
September 30, 1993
His Excellency
The Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Republic of Costa Rica
San Jose,
Costa Rica
Excellency:
Re:
Loan No. 3447-CR
(Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the IBRD Agreement) dated April 10, 1992 between 
the Republic of Costa Rica (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in respect of the above-mentioned project.
As a result of our recent discussions with representatives of the Government of 
Costa Rica, we propose the following amendments to the Loan Agreement:
1.
Section 3. 10 (a) (i) of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"(i)  not create any quota restriction system for imports and exports of 
basic grains  and beans and shall not impose any type of price controls on basic grains 
and beans.  
Pursuant to this undertaking, the Borrower agrees that in 
situations where the GATT (General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) allows the 
imposition of quotas, it shall, instead of using 
quota restrictions, apply tariffs 
which shall be set subject to the provisions of Section 3. 
10 (a) (vii) of this 
Agreement;" 
2.
A new subparagraph (vii) is included in Section 3. 10 (a) of the Loan Agreement 
to read as follows:
"(vii) establish, not later than November 30, 1994, and maintain 
thereafter, tariffs 
on the importation of basic grains and beans, such tariffs 
to be: (1) analogous to 
industrial products; (2) subject to a maximum rate of 
20%; and (3) applied to the CIF normal 
price of the referred imports provided, 
however, that the above maximum tariff rate may be 
exempted for cases of 
antidumping, countervailing duties and safeguard measures applied 
consistently 
with GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) and other international 
agreements, including the Convenio Sobre el Regimen Arancelario y Aduanero 
Centroamericano 
(hereinafter Convenio), to which the Borrower is a party.  For 
purposes of this paragraph, 
normal price shall be the price as defined and 
calculated in accordance with the provisions 
set forth in the Legislacion 
Centroamericana Sobre el Valor Aduanero de las Mercancias, 
Anexo "B", of the 
Convenio published in the Ordenamiento Juridico de la Integracion 
Economico 
Regional en America Latina (1986) of the Institute for Latin American 
Integration."
3.
Section 6.01 (e) of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"(e) the Borrower shall have, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank: (i) 
eliminated all quota restrictions to imports and exports of basic 
grains and beans; and (ii) 
eliminated all price controls on basic grains and 
beans.'
Please confirm your agreement to the above amendments by signing and dating the 
attached duplicate original in the space provided below and returning it to us.  
Whereupon this amendment
shall come into force on the date upon which the Bank shall received the duly 
countersigned counterpart of this amendment letter.
Page  2
Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:
September, 30, 1993
