Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3447 CR
(Agricultural Sector Investment and
Institutional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 10, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3447 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CAN" means Consejo Agropecuario Nacional, the Borrower's National 
Production Council;
(b)
"Colones" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual arrangements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and IDA pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 
of this Agreement;
(d)
"CNP" means Consejo Nacional de la Produccion, the Borrower's council in 
charge of marketing agricultural products;
(e)
"CONAI" means Comision Nacional de Asuntos Indigenas, the Borrower's 
Commission of Indian Affairs;
(f)
"Decentralization Action Plan" means the plan, transmitted to the Bank 
with the Borrower's letter dated February 6, 1992, for the decentralization of MAG's 
activities, setting forth, inter alia, a schedule for: (i) the transfer of personnel 
and functions from MAG's San Jose offices to MAG's regional offices; and (ii) 
privatization of certain services;
(g)
"DGEC" means Direccion General de Estadistica y Censo, the Borrower's 
National Statistics and Census Directorate;
(h)
"Decree" means Decreto No. 20095-MAG, dated December 17, 1991, issued by 
the Borrower's President, which abrogated Decreto No. 19457-MAG, dated January 10, 
1990, which required agricultural credit to be tied to compulsory technical 
assistance, required a three-year experience period for agriculturalist and 
established limitations on professional activities;
(i)
"Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines" means the guidelines, 
transmitted to the Bank with IDA's letter dated February 7, 1992, setting forth the 
principles and procedures to be followed by IDA and MOPT in the carrying out of 
environmental impact assessments under the Project;
(j)
"IDA" means Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario, the Borrower's Agrarian 
Development Institute, established pursuant to Law No. 6735, of March 29, 1982;
(k)
"IDA's Statement of Policies" means IDA's statement of policies and 
reorganization plan, transmitted to the Bank with IDA's letters dated February 7, 1992 
and February 21, 1992, setting forth, inter alia, the new responsibilities of IDA's 
regional offices, a schedule for the transfer of IDA's personnel from its San Jose 
offices to its regional offices, the criteria for selection of beneficiaries of land 
distribution, the procedures for land titling and transference, the socio-economic 
criteria to be applied in future IDA's land purchases, the maximum period for IDA to 
provide services within the settlements, and the rules for enforcement of sound 
environmental practices in the creation of new settlements and construction of 
infrastructure;
(l)
"MAG" means Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
(m)
"MIRENEM" means Ministerio de Recursos Naturales, Energia y Minas, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and Mines;
Page  3
(n)
"MOPT" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation;
(o)
"PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Project Accounts" means the banking accounts to be established pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(q)
"PSC" means the Project steering committee referred to in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement;
(r)
"SEPSA" means Secretaria Ejecutiva de Planificacion del Sector 
Agropecuario, the Borrower's Planning Executive Secretariat for the Agricultural 
Sector, which provides technical support to CAN;
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(t)
"Voucher Program Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower, through MAG, and Banco Nacional de 
Costa Rica, providing for the
participation of such bank in the cashing of vouchers to be issued in connection with 
the private technical assistance to be carried out under Part B.2 (g) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of forty-one million dollars 
($41,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower's Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
Page  4
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower, and any person or 
persons appointed by such Minister, are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out: (A) Parts A.1, A.4 and A.5 of the Project, through SEPSA; (B) Parts A.2 and 
B of the Project, through MAG; and (C) Part C.2 of the Project, through MOPT, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, agricultural, administrative and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such Parts of the Project (including, through MOPT, those required for 
periodic maintenance of the rural roads included in the Project, and, through MIRENEM 
and CONAI, those required for the maintenance of the areas demarcated under Part A.5 
(a) and (b) of the Project, respectively); and (ii) shall cause IDA, pursuant to the 
Contractual Arrangements, to carry out Parts A.3, C.1 and C.3 of the Project and 
manage its affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, agricultural, administrative and environmental practices and 
IDA's Statement of Policies, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
Page  5
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable IDA to carry out Parts A.3, C.1 and C.3 of the Project, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying 
out of such Parts of the Project by IDA.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) hereof, the 
Borrower shall: (i) open, through MAG, MOPT and SEPSA, and cause IDA (in respect of 
the Parts of the Project to be carried out by IDA) to open separate banking accounts 
in Colones (the Project Accounts) for the exclusive purpose of making payments out of 
such accounts to meet expenditures incurred in respect of the Project; (ii) make, 
through MAG, MOPT and SEPSA, and cause IDA to make an initial deposit in the Project 
Accounts in amounts equivalent to the estimated amounts of payments to be made with
counterpart funds during the first four months of the Project, provided that, in any 
case, the aggregate amount of such deposits shall be equivalent to at least 
$2,500,000; and (iii) promptly
deposit, through MAG, MOPT and SEPSA, and cause IDA to deposit into such Project 
Accounts, upon each withdrawal therefrom, an equivalent amount in Colones so as to 
maintain in deposit at all  times an amount not lower than the initial deposit 
referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) hereof or such other amount agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank in view of the financial resources required for the timely 
execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower, through MAG, shall enter into contractual 
arrangements with IDA (the Contractual Arrangements), satisfactory to the Bank, 
providing, inter alia, for: (i) the
transfer to IDA of the portion of the Loan allocated to the Parts of the Project to be 
carried out by IDA; and (ii) the assumption by IDA of all the obligations in respect 
of the Parts of the Project to be carried out by IDA set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Contractual Arrangements 
and the Voucher Program Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
such Contractual Arrangements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.3, C.1 
and C.3 of the Project shall be carried out by IDA.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through SEPSA, shall: (i) maintain, during the 
execution of the Project, a Project coordinating unit (the PCU): (A) comprised of a 
coordinator, one project
specialist, one public administration specialist, one procurement expert, one 
accountant and three administrative staff, such persons (with the exception of the 
three administrative staff) to be
employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, all such staff (other than those referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement) to be appointed not later than six months after the Effective Date; and (B) 
for purposes, inter alia, of: (1) consolidating Project operational plans and reports; 
(2) identifying possible Project implementation problems and ensuring that appropriate 
action is taken to resolve such problems; (3) preparing Project budgets; (4) 
coordinating the preparation of documents for the procurement of goods, works and 
services for the Project; and (5) monitoring key indicators and evaluating results  of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MAG, SEPSA and MOPT, shall, and shall cause IDA to, 
maintain, during the execution of the Project, persons, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as coordinators of MAG, SEPSA, MOPT and 
Page  6
IDA, respectively, with the PCU.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, maintain 
a Project steering committee (the PSC): (a) headed by the Borrower's Minister of 
Agriculture and comprising of representatives of MAG, MOPT, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Finance, IDA and CNP; and (b) for purposes, inter alia, of resolving possible 
inter-institutional problems in the execution of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through MAG, carry out the Decentralization 
Action Plan in accordance with the provisions thereof.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause IDA, until all IDA's lands earmarked for 
settlement are settled and the respective titles distributed, to limit: (a) its 
expenditures in respect of annual acquisition of lands for settlement purposes to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000; and (b) such acquisition of lands to those 
lands which meet the socio-economic criteria set forth in IDA's Statement of Policies 
and the requirements of the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause all the environmental impact 
assessments required under the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines.
(b)
The Borrower, through MOPT, shall furnish to the Bank, not later than 
June 30 of each year during the execution of the Project, starting in 1992, an 
implementation program for the
improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads under Part C.2 of the 
Project during the upcoming calendar year, which shall include complete environmental 
impact assessments thereof.
(c)
The Borrower, through MOPT, undertakes to carry out the construction of 
communal buildings, water supply installations, classrooms and teacher houses under 
Part C.2 of the Project in accordance with construction guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
not create any quota restriction system for imports and exports of 
basic 
grains and beans, shall cause the tariffs on the importation 
of basic grains 
and beans to be analogous to those applied to 
industrial products and subject 
to a maximum rate of 20% and shall not 
impose any type of price controls on 
basic grains and beans;
 
(ii)
limit the purchases, through CNP, of maize and beans to the 
following amounts: 
(A) in the case of yellow maize: in 1992, 30% of the 
amount corresponding to 
the consumption thereof in Costa Rica in 1991; 
in 1993 and each year 
thereafter, the amounts corresponding to 
two months of average consumption 
thereof in Costa Rica in 
each of the respective previous years; (B) in the 
case of white 
maize: in 1992 and 1993, 40% and 25%, respectively, of the 
amounts corresponding to the production thereof in Costa Rica in 1991 and 
1992, respectively; in 1994 and each year thereafter, the amounts 
corresponding to three months of average consumption thereof in 
Costa Rica in 
each of the respective previous years; and (C) in the 
case of beans: in the 
periods from April 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993 
and from April 1, 1993 to March 
31, 1994, 40% and 30%, respectively, of 
the amounts corresponding to the 
production thereof in Costa Rica 
in the respective previous twelve-month 
periods; in the 
period from April 1, 1994 to March 31, 1995 and in each 
twelve-month period thereafter, the amounts corresponding to three months of 
average consumption thereof in Costa Rica in each of the respective previous 
twelve-month periods;
(iii)
cause the wholesale prices of the basic grains and beans sold by 
CNP to 
reflect the full cost of storage;
 
(iv)
maintain regional price differentials in the farm gate and 
wholesale prices of 
basic grains and beans sold by CNP to reflect 
Page  7
actual transportation costs;
(v)
cause CNP not to undertake food retail activities nor to create 
any new 
wholesale store nor food storage facilities in 
addition to its existing seven 
wholesale stores and one storage 
facility; and
(vi)
cause CNP not to create or reopen any grain storage or grain 
processing 
facilities in addition to its existing three grain 
storage and processing 
facilities.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than nine months after the Effective 
Date, complete a study, satisfactory to the Bank, evaluating CNP's effectiveness and 
financial management and
recommending measures consistent with CNP's future role; (ii) not later than one year 
after the Effective Date, prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, for the implementation of such measures; and (iii) not later than June 30, 1994, 
take significant steps, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to implement such 
measures.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than February 28 of each year 
during the execution of the
Project, starting in 1993, submit to the Bank Project progress reports covering the 
Project activities during the preceding year, such reports to be of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause: (a) the study under Part C.3 of the 
Project to be: (i) carried out in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (ii) submitted to the Bank, for approval, not later than one year from 
the Effective Date; and (b) the recommendations of such study, as approved by the 
Bank, to be promptly put into effect.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall, not later than October 1 of each year during 
the execution of the Project, starting in 1992, submit to the Bank, for approval, an 
operational plan providing for the activities, the implementation schedule and 
resource (human and financial) allocation in respect of the Project during the 
upcoming year.
Section 3.14. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting in 1993, participate in annual reviews of Project implementation to be held 
in conjunction with the
Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in Section 3.11 of this 
Agreement and to focus on evaluation of the progress of the Project against: (i) the 
annual operating plans referred to in Section 3.13 of this Agreement; and (ii) 
indicators of Project performance and impact satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1994, participate in a medium-term review to 
be held in conjunction with the Bank on the progress in the execution and in the 
achievement of the objectives
of the Project, to be measured on the basis of the indicators of Project performance 
and impact referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) hereof, such review to include, inter 
alia, progress in the carrying out of CNP's action plan referred to in Section 3.10 
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, and in the implementation of the recommendations of the 
studies referred to in Part A.1 (e) of the Project. If such review shows that the 
objectives of the Project are not being achieved or that the Project is not being 
carried out as envisaged, the Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all 
such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the 
achievement of such objectives or for the efficient carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall, with respect to the carrying out of Part A.1 
(d) of the Project, establish, not later than three months after the Effective Date, 
and thereafter maintain a committee composed of representatives of MAG, IDA and DGEC, 
to be headed by the Executive Director of SEPSA, for the purposes of coordinating the 
Page  8
activities of the governmental entities which manage agricultural information.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of MAG, 
SEPSA and MOPT.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account and the 
Project Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during the 
relevant fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can  be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause IDA to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of IDA, including records and separate accounts for Parts A.3, C.1 
and C.3 of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause IDA to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for IDA's Project Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
Page  9
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for Parts A.3, C.1 and C.3 of the Project were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause IDA to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during the 
relevant fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture, in its capacity as head of CAN, 
shall have ceased to have authority to decide on the Borrower's budget proposal and 
investment plans for the agricultural sector as a whole;
(b)
the administrative structure and planning functions of SEPSA shall have 
been modified in a manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, shall materially and 
adversely affect the execution of the Project;
(c)
the Decree shall have been amended, abrogated or repealed, and such 
amendment, abrogation or repeal shall, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and 
adversely affect the execution of the Project;
(d)
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica shall have not complied with its obligations 
under the Voucher Program Agreement; and
(e)
IDA shall not have complied with its obligations under the Contractual 
Arrangements.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
Page  10
(a)
the Contractual Arrangements have been entered into by the parties 
thereto;
(b)
the PCU and the PSC have been established, and the PCU's coordinator and 
project specialist and at least one administrative staff for the PCU have been 
appointed;
(c)
the coordinators referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement have 
been appointed;
(d)
the Project Accounts have been opened and their initial deposits made 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)
the Borrower shall have, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) eliminated all quota restrictions to imports and exports of basic grains and 
beans; (ii) unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, established tariffs on the 
importation of basic grains and beans, such tariffs to be: (A) analogous to those 
applied to industrial products; (B) subject to a maximum rate of 20%; and (C) applied 
to the CIF normal price of the referred imports; and (iii) eliminated all price 
controls on basic grains and beans. For purposes of this paragraph, normal price shall 
be the price as defined and calculated in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
the Legislacion Centroamericana Sobre el valor Aduanero de las Mercancias, Anexo "B", 
del Convenio Sobre el Regimen Arancelario y Aduanero Centroamericano published in the 
Ordenamiento Juridico de la Integracion Economico Regional en America Latina (1986) of 
the Institute for Latin American Integration.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all action, including the issuance of decretos 
and/or resoluciones if required, taken to comply with the condition in Section 6.01 
(e) of this Agreement is valid, sufficient and with full force and effect under the 
laws of Costa Rica.
Section 6.03. The date July 9, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 5016-1000
San Jose, Costa Rica
Telex:
2277 MINHAC
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  11
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Juan Rafael Lizano Saenz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works under:
 (a)     Part A.5 of           1,680,000        56%
         the Project
    (b)  Other Parts
         of the Project        6,000,000        56%
(2) Goods                     10,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Services under:
    (a)  Part A.4 of the       4,290,000        100%
         Project
    (b)  Part C.1 of the       4,680,000        100%
         Project
(4) Consultants'
Page  12
    Services under:
    (a)  Part B.2 (g)          1,800,000        100%, until with-
         of the Project                         drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $450,000; then
                                                80%, until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $850,000; then
                                                60%, until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $1,200,000; then
                                                40%, until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $1,500,000; then
                                                20%, until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $1,650,000; and
                                                10%, thereafter
    (b)  Other Parts           6,400,000        100%
         of the Project
(5) Training and               2,150,000        100%
    Studies
(6) Unallocated                4,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                41,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
vehicles, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that MAG and IDA have sold or otherwise disposed of at least 240 non-operational 
or high maintenance cost vehicles;
(c)
services for the land titling of the last 70 settlements under Part C.1 
of the Project, unless: (i) the boundaries of those settlements have been demarcated; 
Page  13
(ii) land use plans and technical and economic justification for the rehabilitation 
and construction of the rural infrastructure for such settlements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, have been presented to the Bank; and (iii) an assessment, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of the environmental impact of the consolidation process of such settlements has 
been furnished to the Bank;
(d)
works in the rural roads to be rehabilitated, improved and maintained in 
connection with the settlements referred to in (c) above, unless economic evaluation, 
engineering standards and environmental impact assessment for such works, satisfactory 
to the Bank, have been presented to the Bank;
(e)
consultants' services under Part B.2 (g) of the Project, unless the 
Voucher Program Agreement has become effective;
(f)
goods and consultants' services under Part A.1 (d) of the Project, unless 
a master plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of such Part A.1 (d) 
has been furnished to the Bank; and
(g)
training consisting of postgraduate studies, in Costa Rica or abroad, 
unless the Bank has approved the proposal therefor.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements  of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's sustainable 
agricultural growth by improving the efficiency andeffectiveness of public sector 
institutions and their expenditures.
Specifically, the Project will: (a) strengthen the agricultural sector policy 
planning, evaluation and monitoring capacity; (b) shift public expenditures away from 
inefficient food distribution and grain marketing operations towards growth enhancing 
services such as agricultural research and extension, land titling and settlement 
consolidation; (c) develop an analytical framework to guide soil and crop management 
policies and practices; (d) contribute to alleviate poverty in the rural areas of the 
Borrower's territory by helping in the regularization of land rights and improving 
agricultural productivity of small farmers; and (e) support implementation of sector 
reforms in the areas of public resource allocation, public sector management, 
decentralization and private sector development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Strengthening, by means of technical assistance and training, CAN's policy 
coordinating functions and SEPSA's ability to coordinate sector planning and budgeting 
and to monitor agricultural/public expenditures through: (a) improvement of SEPSA's 
capacity for formulation and impact analysis of economic and agricultural policy 
programs on the agricultural sector; (b) adoption of an integrated sector planning, 
budgeting and financial management system; (c) consolidation and strengthening of 
SEPSA's reorganized units and interorganizational committees; (d) development, in 
coordination with DGEC, of a computerized agricultural information network; and
(e) analytical studies, satisfactory to the Bank, on subjects related to the 
development of the agricultural sector and under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
Strengthening MAG, by means of technical assistance and training, through: (a) 
reorganization of administrative structures and development of new procedures to 
support new technical operations; (b) improvement of staff capacity; and (c) increase 
in efficiency of administration, finance and logistics, by strengthening 
decentralization and making budgets more transparent and responsive to agricultural 
sector priorities.
Page  14
3.
Strengthening IDA, by means of technical assistance and training, through: (a) 
reorganization of administrative structures, development of new procedures and 
provision of equipment and vehicles to support the decentralization of land titling 
and consolidation activities of IDA's regional offices; (b) improvement of staff 
capacity; and (c) increase in efficiency and effectiveness of administrative and 
financial systems.
4.
A program for land use classification and soil erosion control consisting of: 
(a) soil and land capability mapping in major agricultural development areas in the 
Borrower's territory; (b)
strengthening of the national meteorological network in such areas; (c) establishment 
of soil conservation demonstration plots in each of the eight geographical regions of 
the Borrower's territory, including an economic analysis of present on-farm management 
practices; and (d) establishment of three erosion control test plots under different 
topographic and climatic conditions in each such region, to provide basic data on 
erosion rates throughout the country.
5.
Demarcation of: (a) about 66 areas comprising national parks, biological 
reserves, wildlife refuges, forest reserves and protected zones, covering a perimeter 
of approximately 3,150 kilometers of boundaries; and (b) about 22 indigenous reserves, 
covering a perimeter of approximately 1600 kilometers of boundaries.
Part B:
Agricultural Research and Extension
 
1.
Strengthening of agricultural research through: (a) on-farm adaptive research on 
priority crops such as maize, beans, rice and sorghum; (b) construction and remodeling 
of laboratories and other facilities for plant pathology, entomology and nematology, 
post-harvest physiology, seeds and animal production; (c) academic and in-service 
training of research staff; (d) collaborative research among MAG, universities and 
other qualified institutions in Costa Rica; and (e) upgrading of the main research 
stations in the Chorotega, Atlantico, Huetar Norte and Brunca regions.
2.
Strengthening of agricultural extension through: (a) establishment of a unified 
public extension service in MAG, in which subject matter specialists will support 
generalist extension workers; (b) change of extension methodology from crop-specific 
technical assistance to a farming system approach targeted to groups of farmers; (c) 
training of extension staff; (d) strengthening the link between agricultural research 
and extension; (e) systematic monitoring and evaluation; (f) elimination of barriers 
to competition in extension; (g) promotion of private technical assistance to small 
and medium size farmers, by means of a system consisting of the issuance of vouchers 
to private consultants to be cashed pursuant to the Voucher Program Agreement; and (h) 
improvement of
cost-recovery for public services.
Part C:
Land Titling and Consolidation
 
1.
Provision of titles for approximately 23,500 parcels of land in about 362 
settlements, ten population centers and six areas in national reserves.
2.
Improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of about 375 kilometers of roads, 
culverts and bridges as specified in Attachment 1 hereto; construction of communal 
buildings, water supply installations, classrooms and teacher houses in the 
settlements identified in Attachment 2 hereto.
3.
Carrying out of a study for the demarcation, titling and development of land 
presently occupied by indigenous groups.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
ATTACHMENT 1
Rural Roads
1.
The following works will be performed by settlement:
Page  15
                                                     Bridge
                   Dirt Roads                   Gravel Roads  Construction
Settlement        (kilometers)                  (kilometers)      (meters)
1.  La Puente          ___                            0.60          ___
2.  Santiago           ___                            8.30          ___
3.  Ensenanza          ___                            3.40          ___
4.  Blanco y Negro     ___                            3.00          ___
5.  Coopebelen         ___                            0.70         5.00
6.  Cascada           2.50                            ___           ___
7.  Vital Vargas      4.70                            1.30          ___
8.  Coopejusamp       2.00                            ___           ___
9.  Coopesardinal     5.50                            ___           ___
10. Pavona            0.70                            ___         14.00
11. Curime            2.00                            ___           ___
12. San Isidro        ____                            4.00          ___
13. Portegolpe        3.00                            ___          6.00
14. Guaycara          3.00                            ___           ___
15. Ceibo             9.00                            ___           ___
16. Balzar            2.50                            ___           ___
17. Santiago          0.80                            ___           ___
18. Alpha             8.20                            ___           ___
                                                   Bridge
                   Dirt Roads                   Gravel Roads  Construction
Settlement        (kilometers)                  (kilometers)      (meters)
19. Coronado          ___                             1.00          ___
20. Cristo Rey        4.50                            3.50        15.00
21. Fatima            2.50                            1.50          ___
22. Imperio           4.50                            5.00        30.00
23. Hnos. Bennet      1.00                            2.50          ___
24. Milagro           5.20                            ___         16.00
25. Promesa           ___                             2.00         6.00
26. Nueva Virginia    3.20                           15.40        65.00
27. Santa Rosa        3.60                            ___           ___
28. Sonora            ___                             7.50          ___
29. California Tico   3.40                            2.60          ___
Page  16
30. Tres Rosales      ___                             5.00        10.00
31. Suerte            ___                             5.30          ___
32. Finca Agua        ___                             9.00          ___
33. San Alejo         ___                            11.50        15.00
34. Juanilama       18.00                             ___         15.00
35. Esterito         4.00                             ___         12.00
36. Rubi            11.40                             ___         35.00
37. Victoria         ___                            13.00          9.00
2.
Other roads and their respective works will be identified, to the satisfaction 
of the Bank, during the mid-term review to be held pursuant to Section 3.14 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ATTACHMENT 2
Communal Buildings, Water Supply Installations,
Classrooms and Teacher Houses
1.
The works will be carried out in the following settlements:
 
      (a)  Colonia del Valle
      (b)  Vital Vargas
      (c)  Los Angeles
      (d)  Giva
      (e)  Cristo Rey
      (f)  Rio Coto
      (g)  Santiago
      (h)  Agrimaga
      (i)  Sonora
      (j)  Tres Rosales
      (k)  Suerte
      (l)  San Alejo
      (m)  San Jorge
      (n)  Los Lagos
      (o)  Victoria
      (p)  San Isidro
      (q)  Santa Rosa
2.
Other settlements will be identified, to the satisfaction of the Bank, during 
the mid-term review to be carried out pursuant to Section 3.14 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  17
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1997
through   September 15, 2008
1,710,000
 
On March 15, 2009
1,670,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
Page  18
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, works, and services under Parts A.4 
and C.1 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of: (a) $250,000 or more, in the case of goods; and 
(b) $1,000,000 or more, in the case of works.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Costa Rica may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $11,000,000, and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank 
which shall, inter alia, be subject to the following principles:
(a)
foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all 
contracts;
(b)
the date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which shall be at 
least thirty days from the date of the last advertisement of the invitation to bid;
(c)
the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days in a 
newspaper of wide circulation in Costa Rica; and 
(d)
bids may be submitted by mail.
 
2.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Standard Documents
 
All procurement for goods, works and services under Parts A.1 and C.1 of this 
Section shall take place on the basis of standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  19
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part A.1 of this Section and 
the first two contracts for goods and works procured under Part C.1 of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and IDA in the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, and shall cause IDA to, employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $ 
2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Page  20
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  21
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
