 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14784

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/18/2015

               Country: Panama
             Project ID: P082419                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Pa Water Supply And          Project Costs (US$M):                      39.40               34.76
                         Sanitation In
                         Low-income
                         Communities
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      32.00               28.60
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                             07/17/2007
                                                                Closing Date:           05/30/2012       11/14/2014
          Sector(s):       Water supply (60%); Sanitation (24%); Central government administration (16%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (40%); Other human development (20%); Urban services
                           and housing for the poor (20%); Participation and civic engagement (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Midori Makino          Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 The Project Development Objectives, as stated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) and in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD, page 8) were similar:

"To increase access to sustainable water supply and sanitation services in participating communities of the territory
of the Borrower."

The PAD states that the three specific objectives of the project were to:
  Enable the participating households and communities in the rural and poor urban areas to access water and
    sanitation services through innovative approaches aimed at providing services on a sustainable basis.
  Initiate a policy dialogue under the leadership of the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud, MINSA), and
    generate the knowledge basis for evidence based decision making, with the long term goal of strong institutions,
    a focus on beneficiaries and better coordination among stakeholders.
  Improve sanitation and hygiene practices.

The objective from the legal agreement will be used for this assessment.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 10/29/2011

c. Components:
There were four components (PAD, pages 9-15).
Component One: Rural Water Supply , Sanitation (WSS) and Hygiene (Appraisal estimate US$24.10 million, actual
cost US$25.70 million): This component planned to increase WSS and hygiene coverage in rural areas through both
hardware and software activities. This component had two sub components:

(i) Strengthening of Community Water Boards (Juntas Administradoras de Acueductos Rurales (JAAR), the main
water service providers in the rural areas in Panama. Activities included supporting the creation of water board
associations in regions, improving the quality of direct support to water board members, encouraging the contracting
of certain key functions to professional operators, conducting a national diagnostic of water sources, and activities
aimed at supporting community based monitoring of water quality.
(ii) Integrated Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Investment. Activities included community participatory investments
for increasing WSS coverage in rural areas and among indigenous people.

Component Two: Urban WSS (Appraisal estimate US$9.00 million, actual cost US$.95 million): This component
planned to provide WSS systems in smaller towns and marginal peri- urban areas. This component had three
sub-components.

(i) Strengthening of the National Water and Sewer Agency's (Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
(IDAAN) capacity. Activities included, developing a strategic investment planning process, training and capacity
building of staff in strategic planning, and exploring options for providing more autonomy through a pilot operation.
(ii) Investments in marginalized areas: Activities were to focus on exploring innovative ways of providing WSS to
communities in marginalized urban areas.
(iii) Pilot Management Models in small towns: Activities included piloting institutionally and technically innovative
management models in small towns that met two eligibility criteria: (i) total connected population were to be below
20,000 inhabitants, and (ii) the small towns should have demonstrated willingness by creating an operating entity with
a formal budget and autonomous planning process.

Component Three: Policy Development (Appraisal estimate US$2.10 million, actual cost US$1.30 million): This
component financed activities associated with initiating a policy dialogue with the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de
Salud, MINSA) for generating a knowledge base for evidence based decision making and long term sector policies.
This component financed activities pertaining to:

(i) Strengthening of the WSS sector. Activities included establishing an inter institutional committee for water and
sanitation matters and initiating a process for ensuring that WSS sectors have sufficient financial and human
resources.
(ii) Sector Information System: Activities included development of a sector information system for providing
information on investment needs and plans, and providing information to the stakeholders on sector outcomes.
(iii) Hand washing Initiative: Activities financed the implementation of a hand washing initiative by the Ministry of
Health.
Component Four: Project Management (Appraisal estimate US$4.20 million, actual cost US$6.79 million): Activities
financed the project's general operating costs, costs of monitoring and evaluation activities, and the costs of
institutional strengthening activities.

Revised components:
The scope of the project activities was reduced at the first level-two restructuring which took place on October 27,
2011,based on the Mid Term Review's assessment:
    The project activities pertaining to improving the National Water Agency’s strategic planning and investment
     management capacity (component two activities) were transferred to another World Bank supported project
     which was approved in 2010 which focused exclusively on urban water issues (Panama Metro Water and
     Sanitation Improvement Project, or Metro Agua). The ICR (page 16) notes that this Metro Agua project would
     take the responsibility for carrying out the urban works for which the design was completed under the Water
     Supply and Sanitation in Low Income Communities project.

    The indicators for the number of beneficiaries using water systems in rural communities (component one activity)
     was reduced from the original target of 77,000 (including 44,000 in the first phase and 33,000 in the second
     phase) to 20,000, in view of the higher than expected costs of rural WSS works (discussed in section 2d). The
     restructuring also reallocated funds from the urban works activities which had been transferred to another project,
     to rural works activities which cost more than expected at appraisal.

    The scope of the Sector Water and Sanitation Information System was reduced in view of the Ministry of Health's
     decision to launch a sector monitoring report and a sector information system that focused exclusively on the
    rural sector.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: At appraisal, the estimated project cost was US$39.40 million and the actual cost at completion was
US$34.76 million, 88.2% of the appraisal estimate. The actual cost at closure was lower than the appraisal estimate
because of the reduced scope of rural WSS activities due to a combination of factors; (i) The construction cost of rural
works activities were higher than estimated at appraisal, due to the construction boom in Panama; (ii) The government
decided to promote the relatively expensive septic tanks or improved latrines (with features like increased floor space
and better flooring),which cost US$315 per beneficiary, as compared to basic latrines which cost US$40 per
beneficiary.

Project financing. The original IBRD loan amount was US$32.00 million. At completion, US$28.6 million was
disbursed. The ICR (page 3) reports that the Directorate for the Water and Sanitation sub sector had an extended
grace period until May 2015 to spend the remaining US$1.64 million (difference between the total amount disbursed
and total amount spent to date) for works which had not yet been completed by the project closure date.

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower's contribution was estimated at US$5.1 million, and at closure their contribution
was 8% more than planned, at US$5.5 million.The contribution by the communities (in cash and kind) was US$2.3
million and it was the same as the appraisal estimate.

Dates: The project went through two level-two restructurings: The first restructuring on October 27, 2011 made
changes to the project scope as described in section 2c. The project closing date was extended by 18 months, to
make up for the implementation delays caused by the delays in procuring the initial works.

The second restructuring was on September 23, 2013. This restructuring was intended for completion of activities
(such as WSS works in 34 communities, implementing the hand washing initiative, and consolidating the social and
institutional strengthening measures), which had been delayed due to limited interest from construction firms to
undertake the works. This restructuring also extended the project closing date by an additional 12 months (from
November 30, 2013 to November 30, 2014). The project closed on November 30, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of objectives is rated as Substantial .

The project development objectives was relevant at the appraisal stage, and continues to be relevant to the
government strategy for Panama, At the appraisal stage, although Panama was a fast growing economy in the
region, not all segments of the population benefited by the economic boom. About 40 percent of the population was
poor, and the incidence of poverty was disproportionately greater in rural areas and in areas with indigenous
communities. Only 78 percent and 48 percent of the population in rural and indigenous areas had access to improved
water supply, and 90 percent and 47% to sanitation facilities (PAD, page 2). Since access to water supply and
sanitation was linked with poverty reduction, providing equitable access to WSS was important for the government's
strategy of shared prosperity as discussed below.

The government strategy, as articulated in the Strategic Vision for Economic and Employment Development ,
highlighted the goals of reducing poverty and inequality, developing human capital and modernizing the state. More
specifically, of the five pillars of the strategy, the first highlighted the need for reducing poverty and improving income
distribution. The fifth pillar identified the need for reform and modernization of the state through reducing corruption,
improving private participation in infrastructure and fostering decentralization. The government's tool to achieve the
government strategy, Red de Oportunidades (Opportunity Network Program) launched in early 2006, had a multi
sectoral program for sharing prosperity, through among other things, improving rural infrastructure (such as water,
sanitation, electricity, roads) in low income communities.

The project development objective remains relevant to the Bank strategy for Panama. The Bank's Country Partnership
Strategy for Panama (2008-2010) identified the need for improving living standards of the poor and indigenous
populations. The second pillar of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the 2011 - 2014 period identified the
need for "providing greater opportunities for all through among things, "improved access to quality water and
sanitation services." (CPS, page 17). The proposed CPS for the 2015-2021 period, identifies the need for "supporting
Panama's continued high growth, while ensuring inclusion and opportunities for marginalized and indigenous groups,
and bolstering resilience and sustainability." (ICR, page 25).
b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Design is rated as Substantial

For the most part, the linkages between the project activities and their outputs in the Project's Results Framework was
clear and logical, as were the subsequent linkages to the operation's intended outcomes.

For instance, component one and two activities (such as strengthening water boards, integrating rural WSS
investments, capacity building of the National Water and Sewer Agency and investments in marginalized areas in
towns) could be expected to increase WSS coverage in rural areas, indigenous communities, small towns, and
marginalized urban areas. Component three and four activities (such as initiating a policy dialogue with the Ministry of
Health, developing a sector information system, hand washing initiative and institutional strengthening) could be
expected to contribute to sustainable provision of quality WSS services in the participating communities.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The efficacy of the project objective "to increase access to sustainable water supply and sanitation services in
participating communities of the territory of the Borrower" is assessed in relation to its two sub-objectives, one for
water supply and the other for sanitation services.

In view of the changes in the project’s key outcome targets following the first project restructuring, a split rating was
conducted through assessing the efficacy against both the original and revised outcome targets. These ratings will be
used to determine the outcome rating in section 6.

Objective 1: To increase access to sustainable water supply in the participating communities of the territory of the
Borrower.

Outputs:
  Four water utilities, including the National Water and Sanitation Agency (IDAAN), the Association of Water
    Boards of Chiriqui (AJAARCHI), the Alto Caballero Integrated Water Board and the Aguas de La Montana
    Integrated Water Board received project support. This exceeded the target value of two which was set at
    restructuring (no target value was set at appraisal).
  Feasibility studies and designs for the National Water and Sanitation Agency that would benefit 89,993 people
    were developed, exceeding the target value of 70,000 set at restructuring (no target value set at appraisal).
  New or improved WSS infrastructure, social and technical support were provided to 160 rural water boards,
    exceeding the target value of 150 set at restructuring (no target value was set at appraisal).
  The Ministry of Health (MINSA) published the annual report for the water and sanitation sub sector for 2010 and
    2011 as planned.
  The Inter institutional Committee for Water and Sanitation (CIAPAS) was re-established as planned.
  The Rural Water and Sanitation Information System (SIASAR), designed by the Ministry of Health was made
    functional as planned.
  The first water board association (La Asociacion Juntas Administradoras de Agua de Acueductos Ruralews
    Chiriqui (AJAARCHI) was created. The ICR (page 28) notes that prior to the project there was no legal precedent
    for the establishment of associations, and the project financed a consultant who guided the process for the legal
    formation of the association, and also developed the guidelines that could be used for establishing such
    associations in future. The project provided capital for purchasing the office and technical equipment for
    AJAARCHI.

Outcomes against the original target : Modest
  A beneficiary survey revealed that by year five of the project, 59 percent of the beneficiaries were using
    sustainable water systems, against the original target of 70 percent, set at appraisal. Sustainability benchmarks
    were set (technically operational, regular meeting by water communities, O&M cost recovery through tariffs, and
    system design to ensure long-term supply) and monitored.
  The project connected 35,127 beneficiaries to the improved drinking water source systems as compared to the
    original target of 77,000. This included 18,385 beneficiaries who were connected to the new water systems and
    16,742 beneficiaries connected to the rehabilitated water systems. As noted in section 2c, the second phase was
    dropped following the first project restructuring.
  Information from the surveys by the Rural Water and Sanitation Information System (SIASAR) indicated that
    25.7% of the water boards were operating and maintaining their water and sanitation facilities by collecting cost
    recovery based tariffs at the project closure stage, as compared to the original target of 20% (ICR, page 8).
  Based on the definition of poverty specified by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (annual per capita income of
    US$953 or below), 89% of the beneficiaries were in the poor areas at the project closure stage as compared to
    the original target of 80%.
  44% of beneficiaries of the rural component were living in indigenous communities as compared to the original
     target of 25%.

Outcomes against the revised target : Substantial

    A beneficiary survey revealed that by year five of the project, 59 percent of the beneficiaries were using
     sustainable water systems, against the revised target of 56 percent.
    35,127 beneficiaries were connected to the improved drinking water source systems as compared to the revised
     target of 40,000.

Objective Two: To increase access to sustainable sanitation services in the participating communities of the territory
of the Borrower.

Outputs:
  See the outputs listed above under objective one as they are also relevant for objective two.
  Direct capacity building workshops and training of local facilitators (community facilitators and the Ministry of
    Health and non-governmental Organizations) were held to disseminate the lessons of the hand washing initiative
    (ICR, page 39).
  242,421 of the target audience was exposed to messages regarding the hand washing initiative as compared to
    the original target of 200,000.

Outcomes against the original target : Substantial
  By year five of the project, 25,564 beneficiaries were using improved sanitation systems (with latrines and flush
    toilets) as compared to the original target 26,400.
  Based on the definition of poverty specified by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (annual per capita income of
    US$953 or below), 89% of the beneficiaries were in the poor areas at the project closure stage as compared to
    the original target of 80%.
  44% of beneficiaries of the rural component were living in indigenous communities as compared to the original
    target of 25%.

Outcomes against the revised target : Substantial
  By year five of the project, 25,564 beneficiaries were using improved sanitation systems (with latrines and flush
    toilets) as compared to the revised target of 15,900. The ICR (page 9) reports that the target for this indicator was
    reduced in view of the government's decision to construct the more expensive septic tanks or improved latrines
    as compared to basic latrines.
  An evaluation conducted through a survey of 200,000 people across the regions where the campaign was
    implemented indicated that 91% of the beneficiaries remembered the lessons of hygiene from the hand washing
    initiatives supported under the project (such as the importance of washing their hands after using the restroom).

5. Efficiency:
 Modest:

An economic analysis was conducted at the appraisal stage for the rural water supply component of the project, which
accounted for approximately 91% of the total project cost (PAD, page 28). The project's benefits was assumed to
come from time savings and increased consumption. The ex post analysis considered benefits from both rural water
works and rural sanitation interventions. The overall ex post Internal Rate of Return (IRR) was 15% as compared to
the ex-ante IRR of 24%.The IRR of rural water works was lower than expected at appraisal, and the actual net
benefits of rural water works were under $10,000 as compared to the predicted US$7.4 million and actual IRRs were
about 50% less (12% as compared to the predicted 24%). Sanitation works on the other hand had IRR of 20% (ICR,
page 32).

There were cost and time overruns. Actual costs of rural interventions were twice as much as foreseen at appraisal
(US$23.4 million as compared to US$11 million at appraisal. This as explained in section 2d was due to a combination
of costs including underestimation of costs at appraisal due to the increase in price of construction materials, which
was difficult to predict at the time of appraisal. The project preparation did not include the development of rural WSS
designs, and this caused initial implementation delays. The delays were further exacerbated due to the quality of
design which required more revisions than anticipated, and the project closed 30 months beyond schedule.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                    Point Value                  Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                      Yes                                24%                            61%
    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      15%                                     73%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project development objective and relevance of design was rated as Substantial. The efficacy of the first
objective related to increasing access to sustainable water supply was rated as Modest against the originally set
outcome target and Substantial against the revised outcome target set at restructuring. The efficacy of the second
objective related to increasing access to sustainable sanitation services was rated as Substantial, both against the
original and revised outcome targets. Efficiency was rated as Modest, with the ex post EIRR lower than the appraisal
estimates, cost overruns, and implementation delays. As a result, outcome rating assessed against the original
outcome target is Moderately Unsatisfactory and the outcome rating assessed against the revised outcome target is
Moderately Satisfactory. The overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The disbursement shares were 47%
(US$13.4 million) and 53% (US$15.2 million) prior to and subsequent to project restructuring in 2011.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The main risk to development outcome concerns the capacity of the Community of Water Boards (JAARs) to
operate and maintain their systems through self-financing mechanisms. The project supported cost recovery based
tariffs which are effective for providing water supply on a sustainable basis, and hand washing initiatives which are
useful for promoting hygiene and sustainable sanitation. However, at the project closure stage, only about 59% of the
JAARS were maintaining their systems through cost recovery based tariffs. The remaining 41% were still dependent
on the support provided by the Directorate of Water and Sanitation to maintain their systems.

The project supported the policies and legal frameworks that would strengthen the rural and integrated water boards
to become sustainable in the medium run. The follow on projects supported by the World Bank has components to
strengthen the institutions at the community, regional, and central levels. In view of this, the risk to development
outcome is rated Moderate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design incorporated the lessons learnt through three prior Bank financed projects (such as the The
Rural Health Project. The Social Investment Fund Project, and other projects in the region: Paraguay: Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project (P007920)). The specific lessons incorporated in project design included social
accompaniment and sustainability measures as key parts of the project, involving communities to build ownership
of design, and capacity building to the entire community as opposed to just the members of the Community Water
Boards (JAARS) (ICR, page 17).

Appropriate risks were identified at appraisal, and risk mitigation measures were taken in most cases (PAD, pages
24-27). However, one risk that was not identified was the delays associated with establishing the regional offices
of the Department of Potable Water and Sanitation sub sector (ICR, page 19).

The M&E design was adequate (see Section 10a below) and sufficient provisions were made for safeguards and
fiduciary compliance (see Section 11 below).

The actual costs of rural water supply works was higher than at the appraisal stage and led to a reduction in the
scope of the project activities. However, the cost overruns as discussed in section 2d, were due to factors difficult
to predict at the time of appraisal according to the ICR.

At project launch, beneficiary communities were still being selected, and the rural WSS design had not been
developed at project preparation. This in turn led to initial delays due to a lack of interest from firms to bid on the
design, technical supervision and social accompaniment packages for the rural WSS works. The delays were
exacerbated by the quality of entry designs which required further revisions (ICR, page 20). The team
underestimated the capacity building needs. Although the project implemented a three day capacity building
course for the Community Water Boards and community members, the course was not based on educational and
socioeconomic backgrounds levels and many communities did not receive the means for integrating the lessons
into their operating structures (ICR, page 21).


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Supervision missions were conducted on average twice a year. Although the project had four task team
leaders for the project, to an extent the continuity was maintained by the presence of the same co task team
leader for the major duration of the project (ICR, page 20). The supervision team also aided in resolving financial
management issues through implementation of action plans and close supervision (discussed in section 11).
Following the Mid Term Review, the supervision team responded to the changing circumstances through a
restructuring, by diverting resources for rural works, the costs of which proved to be higher than expected.

Although at the supervision stage, additional social consultants were hired to provide additional social support to
the communities, this support was not applied systematically, with some communities receiving more support.
Some communities had not received adequate training for using for using chlorine, cleaning water tanks and
managing operation and maintenance (O&M) costs (ICR, page 21).



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The central government displayed strong commitment to the project throughout the design and implementation
phase as demonstrated by the following: The counterpart funding was more than planned and the government laid
a strong groundwork for sustainable rural WSS management through establishing the Regional Departments for
Potable Water and Sanitation (DAPOS), Integrated Community Water Boards (JIAR). The government also
played an active role in successfully re launching the Inter institutional Commission for Water and Sanitation
(CIAPAS).

As discussed in section 7, although 59% of the JAARS were maintaining their systems through cost recovery
based tariffs, it is not clear whether the remaining 41% could maintain their systems without support from the
Directorate of Water and Sanitation.

During the project implementation phase, the Directorate for the Water and Sanitation sub sector (DIAPAS) had
as many as seven heads and this in turn disrupted the consistent implementation of the project, in view of the time
required for each leader to understand the project and the Bank guidelines and procedures (ICR, page 35).

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Ministry of Health (MINSA) was the implementing agency. The project coordination unit was located
within the Ministry's Directorate for the Water and Sanitation (DISAPAS) sub sector. This helped the project in
benefiting from the experience of DISAPA's social educators and WSS technical staff, who were familiar with the
needs and customs of the communities (ICR, page 20). Although the project coordination unit had as many as
seven different directors, the committed team players were able to move the project forward through the periods of
disjointed leadership (ICR, page 35). The monitoring arrangements were adequate (discussed in section 10) and
the implementing agency was able to ensure compliance with safeguards issues (discussed in section 11).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
 a. M&E Design:
   The two outcome indicators (the number of beneficiaries using sustainable water and sustainable sanitation
systems were appropriate and were measurable. There were two other indicators (percentage of beneficiaries of the
rural component living in poor corregimientos and the percentage of beneficiaries living in indigenous jurisdictions,
reflecting the sub-objectives spelled out in the PAD.

The project had two M&E mechanisms: (i) A project level M&E framework for communities included in the project. (ii)
A national level information system covering the entire WSS sector (PAD, page 23). The Directorate for the water and
sanitation sub sector (DISPAS) was responsible for monitoring progress on the indicators and sending evaluation
reports to the Bank.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   The implementation of M&E was through the Rural Water and Sanitation Information System (SIASAR), a tool that
was designed to systematically monitor sustainability and quality of rural WSS in project areas. The ICR (page 23)
notes that although there were issues associated with transfer of knowledge between the different operating areas of
DISAPAS during M&E implementation, the implementing agency was able to maintain the results framework up to
date through the implementation phase through Bank support.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The SIASAR system was used for both collecting information on project communities and on communities through
the country. The information collected by the system on WSS service could be accessed by the communities through
a public website. The ICR (page 22) reports that the Ministry of the Presidency utilized the indicator information
collected by the Directorate of Rural and Sanitation sector to track progress towards the presidential goal to extend
potable water access to 90% of the population. The team leader clarified that the information collected by the system
continues to be used for monitoring WSS issues to date.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project, was classified as "Category B" for environmental assessment purposes and partial assessment was
required. The following safeguard policies were triggered: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01): (ii) Natural
Habitats (OP/BP 4.04): (iii) Cultural Property (OP 4.11): (iv) Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12); (v) Indigenous
Peoples (OP/BP 4.10).

Environmental Safeguards : The PAD (page 31) notes that an Environmental Assessment was prepared at the
appraisal stage (including a project typology, institutional arrangements, an institutional capacity assessment,
capacity building measures, environmental screening procedures screening procedures, sub project environmental
assessment procedures and a safeguards monitoring and evaluation plan) for ensuring compliance with
environmental safeguards. The ICR (page 23) notes that the environmental framework was not consistently applied
during the implementation period due to lags in hiring a staff member for environmental issues. However, by project
closure, the implementing agency had hired a person for handling environmental issues and the implementing agency
also helped in simplifying the process to obtain water source permits from the National Environmental Authority.

Indigenous Peoples, Involuntary Resettlement , Natural Habitats and Cultural Property :
The ICR (page 23) notes that the project complied with the Indigenous Peoples safeguard and the project worked in
indigenous communities through establishing relationships with community leaders and signing cooperation
agreements with the indigenous congresses during the implementation phase. The ICR (page 23) notes that land
acquisition and resettlement did not occur under the project. The ICR (page 23) does not provide information on
compliance with the Natural Habitat and Cultural Property Safeguard.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial arrangements : The ICR (page 23) reports that the external audits were submitted on a timely basis, and the
legal financial management related covenants were met, and the task team leader clarified that the audits were
unqualified. The financial management issues ICR (page 23. Financial management issues that arose during the
implementation phase (such as general delays at the start of the project due to lack of financial management
software, lack of an annual operating plan on a regular basis, no proper recording of financial transactions in a timely
manner, no proper recording of the fixed assets financed by the project, insufficiency of budget funds that were
annually approved by the Congress to finance the totality of activities implemented during any given fiscal year) were
largely resolved through the preparation of action plans and close bank supervision.

Procurement: The ICR (page 25) notes that the implementing agency had a dedicated procurement officer on staff
and there was no mis-procurement (ICR, page 24).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following main lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language.

    Explicit incorporation of policy development activities in the results framework can be useful in maintaining the
     importance of these activities at the project implementation phase. Although important, such activities run the
     risk of being dropped at the implementation phase, in view of the difficulties in implementing the activities and
     relatively low budget assignments for such activities. The experience of this project where a number of policy
     development activities, such as the initiative to promote high level sector wide strengthening was dropped,
     illustrates that explicit incorporation of such activities in the results framework could have helped in the
     execution of these activities.
    Building project design on established structures, as opposed to relying on yet to be formed structures, could
     be useful for minimizing the adverse consequences associated with changes in political will or other
     unexpected occurrences. In the case of this project, the design relied heavily on an agency, Regional
     Department for Potable Water and Sanitation (DAPOS), which had not yet been established, for sustainability
     of the rural WSS works. The establishment of the agency required sector reform, and given the delays, the
     agency was established only in the final years of the project.
    While designing tariff schemes for water works, rather than applying uniform rates, it would be useful to
     consider local economic dynamics of each community, in view of factors such as variations in operation and
     maintenance costs of water works across communities and capacity of communities to pay for such services.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and provides comprehensive description of the institutional realities of the water sector in Panama.
The results matrix incorporating the inputs, outputs and outcome is reasonably clear. The document is internally
consistent and the analysis presented in the assessment of various ratings is evidence based. However,
   The ICR does not provide reasons for not doing a split rating, given the considerable changes in outcome targets
    during the project restructuring.
   The discussion of the efficacy section is quite confusing, particularly in view of the excessive use of acronyms in
    the text. A more sparing use of acronyms would have helped in clarifying the text
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
