                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003382



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-7477-PAN)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                         FOR A

WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IN LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES PROJECT



                                   May 11, 2015




Water Global Practice

Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                                                          1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     AECID      Spanish Agency for International Development
                Cooperation
     AJAARCHI   Association of Water Boards of Chiriquí
     ANAM       Autoridad     Nacional     del    Ambiente,     National
                Environmental Authority
     CGR        Contraloria General de la Republica de Panama
     CIAPAS     Comisión Interinstitucional de Agua Potable y
                Alcantarillado Sanitario, Interinstitutional Commission
                for Water and Sanitation
     DAPOS      Departamento de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, Regional
                Departments for Potable Water and Sanitation
     DISAPAS    Dirección del Sub-sector de Agua Potable y
                Alcantarillado Sanitario, Directorate for the Water and
                Sanitation Subsector
     FM         Financial Management
     FOCARD-    Forum for Potable Water and Sanitation for Central
     APS        America and the Dominican Republic
     GDP        Gross Domestic Product
     GOP        Government of Panama
     IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
     IBRDR      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
     ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
     IDAAN      Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales,
                National Water and Sewer Agency
     JAAR       Junta Administradores de Acueductos Rurales,
                Community Water Boards
     JIAR       Junta Integrada de Acueductos Rurales, Integrated
                Community Water Boards
     MAPAS      Monitoring Country Progress in Drinking Water and
                Sanitation
     MEF        Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, Ministry of
                Economy and Finance
     M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
     MIDES      Ministry of Social Development
     MINSA      Ministry of Health
     NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
     PAD        Project Appraisal Document
     PCU        Project Coordination Unit
     PDO        Project Development Objectives
     RWSS       Rural Water Supply and Sanitation



                                                                           2
SIASAR       Sistema de Información de Agua y Saneamiento Rural,
             Rural Water and Sanitation Information System
SIL          Specific Investment Lending
WSP          Water and Sanitation Program
WSS          Water Supply and Sanitation



  Vice President:             Jorge Familiar
  Country Director:           J. Humberto López
  Practice Manager:           Wambui Gichuri
  Project Team Leader:        Carmen Yee-Batista
  ICR Team Leader:            Camilo Lombana Córdoba
  ICR Main Author:            Elizabeth Hunter Eiseman




                                                                   3
Table of Contents
DATA SHEET                                                             5

SECTION 1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES & DESIGN CONTEXT   13

SECTION 2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES          17

SECTION 3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES                                     24

SECTION 4: ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME                  31

SECTION 5: ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE                33

SECTION 6: LESSONS LEARNED                                            35

SECTION 7. BORROWER COMMENTS                                          35

ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                  37

ANNEX 2. DETAILED PROJECT OUTPUTS                                     38

ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                              44

ANNEX 4: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES
                                                                    48

ANNEX 5. BORROWER’S REPORT                                            51

ANNEX 6. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS                                 55

ANNEX 7. MAP                                                          56




                                                                       4
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                               PA Water Supply and
Country:                    Panama                  Project Name:              Sanitation in Low-
                                                                               Income Communities
Project ID:                 P082419                 L/C/TF Number(s):          IBRD-74770
ICR Date:                   01/07/2015              ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                                                                               GOVERNMENT        OF
Lending Instrument:         SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                               PANAMA
Original            Total
                            USD 32.00M              Disbursed Amount:          USD 28.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:             USD 32.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Health (MINSA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
Process             Date                 Process               Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/07/2006               Effectiveness:        03/04/2008          03/04/2008
                                                                                   10/27/2011;
Appraisal:          05/03/2007           Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   09/23/2013
Approval:           07/17/2007           Mid-term Review:                          09/16/2010
                                         Closing:              05/30/2012          11/14/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                    Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:




                                                                                                  5
                                          Overall
Overall      Bank
                  Moderately Satisfactory Borrower                     Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:
                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                                QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                          Rating
Performance                                   (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                    Quality    at      Entry
                           Yes                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                       Quality            of
                        Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO       rating     before Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 16                     16
Sanitation                                                        24                     24
Water supply                                                      60                     60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other human development                                            20                    20
Participation and civic engagement                                 20                    20
Rural services and infrastructure                                  40                    57
Urban services and housing for the poor                            20                    3

E. Bank Staff
Positions                 At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:           Jorge Familiar                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:         J. Humberto López                   Jane Armitage
Practice
                          Wambui G. Gichuri                   John Henry Stein
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:      Carmen Rosa Yee-Batista             Manuel Schiffler
ICR Team Leader:          Camilo Lombana Córdoba
ICR Primary Author:       Elizabeth Hunter Eiseman




                                                                                                 6
F. Results Framework Analysis
(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                       Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                       Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
Indicator     Baseline Value
                                       approval          Target        Completion or
                                       documents)        Values        Target Years
              Beneficiaries using sustainable water systems in year five of the project in
Indicator 1
              communities targeted in phase one of the rural component

Value         0                           70%                of 56%           of
                                                                                 59% of beneficiaries
                                          beneficiaries         beneficiaries

Date          06/06/2007                    05/30/12              11/14/14        01/31/15
              The indicator was 105% achieved. The Project defines sustainability as: (a) the
              systems are functioning as intended and deliver the service either continuously or
              regularly, depending on the service level selected; (b) the water committees meet
              on a regular basis; (c) tariffs are set at a level that guarantees operation and routine
              maintenance of the system and are collected; and (d) the systems are designed to
              ensure long-term supply (designed appropriately for yield of source). The Project
              utilized the results of the Rural Water and Sanitation Information System Survey
              (SIASAR), which was applied in the majority of beneficiary communities and
              covered the four areas of sustainability, to calculate this result. The SIASAR
Comments      surveys presented a more robust analysis of sustainability – communities were
              considered sustainable if they received an average score of .66 or above on the
              SIASAR systems and service provider surveys (surveys can be found at
              http://siasar.org/sistema/descargas_tecnica.php). The communities that did not
              qualify as sustainable under this analysis are not considered unsustainable; rather,
              they are en route to sustainability but have not yet achieved all the sustainability
              benchmarks as measured by SIASAR. The indicator was measured in percentage
              terms as opposed to number of beneficiaries given that the overall number of total
              beneficiaries was lower than expected, and the objective of the indicator was to
              achieve a certain rate of sustainability among actual beneficiaries.
              Beneficiaries using basic sanitation systems in year five of the project in
Indicator 2
              communities targeted in phase 1 of the rural component
Value         0                           26,400               15,900          25,564

Date          06/06/2007                  05/30/12             11/14/14        01/31/15




                                                                                                    7
              The indicator was 161% achieved. The ICR team visited 16 communities and
              found that all community members were using the latrines/flush toilets. The 2010
              census also indicates that Panamanians with sanitation solutions tend to utilize
              these solutions over open defecation. Therefore the ICR assesses that all
Comments
              latrines/flush financed by the Project are being used by the beneficiaries. The
              target for this indicator was decreased in the 2011 Restructuring given higher than
              expected construction costs and the Government’s decision to finance septic tanks
              and improved latrines as opposed to basic latrines.
              Percentage of beneficiaries of the rural component living in poor
Indicator 3
              corregimientos
Value         0%                          >80%                               89%
Date          06/06/07                    05/30/12                           1/31/15
              The indicator was 111% achieved. The Project utilized the Ministry of Economy
Comments      and Finance’s definition of poverty (an annual per capita income of US$953 or
              below).
              Percentage of beneficiaries of the rural component living in indigenous
Indicator 4
              comaracas
Value         0%                          >25%                               44%
Date          06/06/07                    05/30/12                           1/31/15
Comments       The indicator was 176% achieved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                          Values (from                     Achieved at
Indicator     Baseline Value                                Revised
                                          approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                          documents)                       Target Years
              Share of water boards that are effectively operating and maintaining their
Indicator 1
              water and/or sanitation facilities by collecting cost-recovery-based tariffs
Value         0                           20%                              25.7%
Date          06/06/07                    05/30/12                         1/31/15
              The indicator was 128.5% achieved. The indicator was calculated using
              information from the SIASAR surveys. Communities that collected tariffs that
Comments
              exceeded operation and maintenance costs were considered to be “effectively
              operating.”
Indicator 2   Beneficiaries connected to new water systems.
Value         0                           77,000            20,000         18,385
Date          06/06/07                    05/30/12          11/14/14       1/31/15
              The indicator was 92% achieved. The Project originally estimated that 77,000
              beneficiaries would be connected to the water system (44,000 through the first
              phase of works and 33,000 through the second phase). The RWSS interventions
              for the first phase were decided upon after the Project’s approval, and the actual
              number of expected beneficiaries was found to be 40,000. The execution of the
Comments
              second phase of RWSS works (expected to connect 33,000 beneficiaries) was
              dropped during the October 2011 restructuring given an overall increase in costs
              due to the construction boom in Panama. At restructuring, this indicator was also
              split into two indicators (Beneficiaries connected to new water systems (20,000)
              and beneficiaries connected to rehabilitated water systems (20,000), thus halving



                                                                                               8
              the target. The Project just missed full achievement of this target because works
              are still under construction. Once works are finished, this target will be surpassed
              by four percent.
Indicator 3   Beneficiaries connected to rehabilitated water systems
Value         4,845                                           20,000          16,742
Date          10/27/11                                        11/14/14        1/31/15
              The indicator was 84% achieved. At the time of the Project closure, 418
Comments      household connections to rehabilitated water systems were still pending. Once
              these works are completed, the target will be 98% achieved.
              Number of people in rural areas provided with access to improved water
Indicator 4
              sources under this Project
Value         8,215                                           40,000          35,127
Date          10/27/11                                        11/14/14        1/31/15
              The indicator was 88% achieved. Once the contractors complete the pending
Comments      work, 4,624 additional beneficiaries will receive new/improved access to water
              sources and the indicator will be 99% achieved. (Intermediate indicators 2 + 3)
Indicator 5   Beneficiaries with newly constructed sanitary systems
Value         0                           77,000              26,500          25,564
Date          06/06/07                    05/30/12            11/14/14        1/31/15
              The indicator was 96.5% achieved. As with intermediate indicator two, the
              Project originally envisioned benefiting 77,000 people with improved sanitary
              systems. The target for this indicator was reduced as phase two works were
              dropped given the GoP’s decision to construct septic tanks and, when septic tanks
              were not feasible, improved latrines (with better flooring and more space among
Comments
              other improvements), thus increasing unit costs. The construction boom in Panama
              also impacted the price of the sanitation solutions and the consequent reduction of
              the target. At the time of the Project closure, 306 latrines/flush-toilets were still
              pending construction. Once construction of these latrines is completed, the Project
              will surpass the target by two percent.
Indicator 6   Number of water utilities the Project is supporting
Value         1                                               2               4
Date          10/27/11                                        11/14/14        11/14/14
              The indicator was 200% achieved. The Project supported the National Water
              and Sanitation Agency (IDAAN), the Association of Water Boards of Chiriquí
Comments      (AJAARCHI), the Alto Caballero Integrated Water Board, and the Aguas de la
              Montaña Integrated Water Board. The Project also financed the development of
              feasibility studies and designs for IDAAN.
Indicator 7   Number of water service providers the Project is supporting
Value         45                                              150             160
Date          10/27/11                                        11/14/14        11/14/14
              The indicator was achieved by 106%. The Project provided new or improved
Comments      WSS infrastructure as well as social and technical support to 160 rural water
              boards.
              Development of feasibility studies and designs for WSS for a population of
Indicator 8
              70,000
Value         0                                               70,000          89,993
Date          10/27/2011                                      11/14/14        1/22/15



                                                                                                 9
                 The indicator was achieved by 129%. The Project financed WSS designs that
                 will benefit 89,993 people. IDAAN is currently implementing these designs. The
Comments
                 Project also financed conceptual designs for IDAAN that will benefit
                 approximately 50,000 people.
                 Water and Sanitation Sector Strengthened: Annual report of the subsector
Indicator 9
                 published
Value            Not published              Published                         Published
Date             06/06/07                   05/30/12                          11/14/14
Comments         Achieved. MINSA published an annual report on the subsector for 2010 and 2011.
Indicator 10     Rural sector information system functioning
Value            No                                            Yes            Yes
Date             10/27/11                                      11/14/14       11/14/14
                 Achieved. The Rural Water and Sanitation Information System (SIASAR) is
                 functioning. MINSA has collected information on Project communities and is
Comments         currently collecting information on communities throughout the country. SIASAR
                 provides the public with information on the WSS service in rural communities,
                 see: www.siasar.org
                 Target audience of hand washing initiative was exposed to messages and
Indicator 11
                 recalls them correctly
Value            0                                             200,000        242,421
Date             10/27/11                                      11/14/14       11/14/2014
                 The indicator was 121% achieved. The hand washing campaign reached
                 266,397 people. The firm hired to monitor and evaluate the impact of the campaign
                 found that the large majority of the beneficiaries correctly recalled the key
                 messages. To conduct the evaluation, the firm distributed 200,000 surveys
                 (179,860 which were completed) across the regions where the campaign was
                 implemented. At least 91% of beneficiaries across all regions remembered the
Comments
                 importance of washing their hands after using the restrooms. Using this question
                 and projecting the 91% (a very conservative estimate given that the region with
                 the lowest correct response score answered the question correctly 91% of the time
                 and the region with the highest response score answered the question correctly
                 98% of the time) forward to the total number of beneficiaries, the indicator was
                 surpassed by 21.2%.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                       Actual
      Date ISR
No.                    DO                        IP                    Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
1     10/17/2007       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
2     03/27/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
3     09/18/2008       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              2.11
4     03/02/2009       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              2.26
                       Moderately              Moderately
5     10/12/2009                                                                    3.19
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                       Moderately              Moderately
6     12/17/2009                                                                    3.19
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
7     05/18/2010       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       4.43


                                                                                               10
                    Moderately                Moderately
8     11/30/2010                                                                         5.93
                    Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
9     06/15/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                   11.07
10    12/19/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                   13.97
11    07/07/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                   18.41
12    01/14/2013    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                   19.14
13    09/22/2013    Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              23.67
14    03/26/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                   26.89
15    10/10/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                   27.76


H. Restructuring (if any)


                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                             The first restructuring entailed
                                                             extending the Project’s closing date
                                                             by 18 months due to initial
                                                             implementation delays, refocusing
                                                             the Project on the rural sector given
                                                             the recent approval of the urban-
                                                             focused Metro.Agua Project, and
                                                             reducing indicator targets given
                                                             increases in construction costs due
    11/09/2011       No        MS      MS           13.4     to the construction boom in
                                                             Panama (prices for the water works
                                                             went from US$200 to US$275 per
                                                             capita) as well as the GoP’s
                                                             decision to promote complete
                                                             septic tanks as opposed to basic
                                                             latrines (prices US$40 (2007) to
                                                             U$315 (2010-2011) per
                                                             beneficiary).
                                                             The second restructuring entailed
                                                             extending the Project’s closing date
                                                             by 12 months to enable the
                                                             completion of several RWSS
    09/23/2013       No        MS       S           23.67    works, which had suffered delays
                                                             due to limited interest from
                                                             construction firms to undertake the
                                                             works. In total the project was
                                                             extended by 30 months.




                                                                                                11
I. Disbursement Profile




Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective for this project is to increase access to sustainable
water supply and sanitation services in participating communities of the territory of the
Borrower.

The specific objectives are to:

1. Enable participating households and communities in rural and poor urban areas to access
water and sanitation services through innovative approaches geared to providing services
on a sustainable basis;
2.Initiate a policy dialogue under the leadership of MINSA and generating the knowledge
basis for evidence-based decision making, with the long-term goal of strong institutions, a
focus on beneficiaries and better coordination among stakeholders;
3.Improve sanitation and hygiene practices.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
Not Applicable




                                                                                        12
Section 1. Project Context, Development Objectives & Design Context

Context at Appraisal

1.       At the time of appraisal, Panama had one of the fastest growing economies in the
        1
region. The benefits of the economic boom, however, were not extending to all segments
of the population. Almost 40 percent of the population was still living in poverty. Poverty
was concentrated in rural and indigenous peoples areas. Only 78 percent of the rural
population had access to an improved drinking water supply2 and 90 percent had basic
sanitation (27 percent had septic tanks and sewers). 3 In indigenous territories, these
numbers dropped to 48 percent and 47 percent respectively.4 There was no reliable data on
service quality in those areas with water supply and sanitation (WSS) coverage.5

2.      The Government of Panama (GoP) maintained a goal to achieve universal access
to WSS services but had no detailed action plans or clear sector strategies to reach this
objective.6 There was a strong legal policy framework for the sector (Law No. 2, January
1997), but the institutional and regulatory responsibilities established in the framework
were not being followed. The institutions in charge of the sector, the Ministry of Health
(MINSA), which led policy development and the rural water and sanitation (RWSS) sector,
and the National Water and Sewer Institute (IDAAN), which led the urban sector,7 faced
serious capacity issues. The National Public Services Authority (ANSP) was responsible
for regulation of urban services, but was not very active at the time of appraisal.

3.      MINSA, which operated rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) projects
through its Directorate for the Water and Sanitation Subsector (DISAPAS), struggled to
implement coherent sector policies and regulate the actions of the various stakeholders
investing in the sector. MINSA also had limited capacity to support the approximately
11,000 rural communities in Panama given organizational and planning weaknesses at the
central level, scarce resources at MINSA’s regional offices, which sometimes only had one
WSS specialist as staff, and limited municipal capacity to support the communities. To
build MINSA’s capacity and create a sustainable management structure, the World Bank
Rural Health Project (RHP, P007846), which closed in 2003, supported the establishment
of community water boards (JAARS) and regional water and sanitation units (URAS). By
the time of Appraisal, however, the URAS were no longer functioning and many JAARs


1
  Growth averaged 7.5 percent from 2004 to 2006, Country Partnership Strategy 2008 to 2010, World Bank,
Report No. 39040.
2
  An "improved" drinking-water source is one that, by the nature of its construction and when properly
used, adequately protects the source from outside contamination, particularly fecal matter.
3
  Data point from 2004. Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income
Communities Project, June 2007.
4
  PAD, Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project, June 2007.
5
  IDEM
6
  IDEM
7
  Rural communities defined as communities with fewer than 1,500 people.


                                                                                                    13
were struggling to operate. Investments in the RWSS sector, such as the GoP’s Community
Development Project (PRODEC), focused on infrastructure as opposed to sustainability.

4.      Similarly, IDAAN faced difficulties in leading the urban sector given its inability
to raise tariffs to cover operating costs (tariffs had not been raised since 1982 and direct
and indirect subsidies totaled approximately US$65 million per year)8 and low capacity
and incentive to extend and improve services in poor urban and peri-urban areas among
other issues.

5.      Rationale for Bank Assistance. Given Panama’s economic boom and the increasing
socio-economic gap between the rich and the poor, the GoP was focused on reducing
poverty. Extending WSS access was intrinsically linked to poverty reduction, and the
Bank’s experience with the RHP made it an ideal partner for further reducing inequitable
access in Panama. The RHP included many design features, such as the strengthening of
JAARs, which MINSA wanted to further develop in a new project. In addition, MINSA
sought to develop a common methodology for RWSS interventions that included social
accompaniment as well as innovative measures to improve the sustainability of
infrastructure investments and to strengthen sector institutions at the regional and central
levels. The Bank’s firsthand experience in RWSS sector policy and institutional
strengthening through projects such as the Paraguay Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (P007920) and the Ecuador Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (P049924) added significant value.

6.     Higher Level Objectives. The Project’s high-level objective to improve living
standards of the poor and indigenous populations was in line with the GoP’s strategic goals
and the Bank’s 2008 to 2010 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, Report 39040-PA). The
Project also supported the GoP’s Strategic Vision for Economic and Employment
Development towards 2009, which aimed to reduce poverty, improve income distribution
and promote institutional modernization. The GoP’s Strategy was closely aligned with the
Bank’s CPS, which highlighted reducing poverty and inequality, developing human capital
and modernizing the state among other areas.

Original Project Development Objective (PDO)

7.      The PDO was to increase access to sustainable water supply and sanitation services
in participating communities of the territory of the Borrower. The Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) included the following three specific objectives to measure the
accomplishments of the Project in further detail: (i) Enable participating households and
communities in rural and urban areas to access WSS services through innovative
approaches geared to providing services on a sustainable basis; (ii) Initiate a policy
dialogue under the leadership of MINSA and generate the knowledge basis for evidence-
based decision making, with the long-term goal of strong institutions, a focus on
beneficiaries and better coordination among stakeholders; and (iii) Improve sanitation and
hygiene practices.


8
    PAD, Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project, June 2007.


                                                                                         14
Revised PDO & Key Indicators

8.     The Project’s PDO was not revised. The November 9, 2011 level two restructuring
included reducing the targets for two of the PDO-level indicators given higher than
expected costs for WSS works.

Main Beneficiaries

9.       The Project aimed to benefit approximately 77,000 beneficiaries (44,000 through
the first phase of works and 33,000 through the second phase) with new or improved water
and/or sanitation solutions.9 The Project focused on poor and indigenous communities; the
results framework established that at least 80 percent of beneficiaries live in poor
communities and at least 25 percent of beneficiaries live in indigenous jurisdictions. The
Project also aimed to benefit MINSA, IDAAN, the JAARs and integrated community water
boards (JIARs) through institutional strengthening activities.

Original Components as per the Loan Agreement

10.      Component 1. Rural Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene. (A) Carrying out of
activities needed to ensure expanded coverage and quality of service to rural areas through:
(a) the provision of enhanced support to the establishment and/or operation and
management of the Water Boards, promoting their implementation of selected delegated
operation models; (b) (i) the carrying out of studies and analyses of water sources at the
national level to support preventive protection measures in relation thereto; and (ii) the
subsequent design and implementation of adapted remedial measures and activities; and
(c) the provision of support for the establishment of water, sanitation and hygiene
specialized units in MINSA regional directorates. (B) (a) carrying out of physical
investments and infrastructure in water and sanitation for selected rural communities of
various provinces of the territory of the Borrower; (b) carrying out of selected community-
driven investments and infrastructure in water and sanitation in selected rural communities
of various provinces of the territory of the Borrower through the provision of Grants to
Beneficiary Communities for the preparation, implementation and supervision of
Community Subprojects in integrated rural water supply and sanitation investments,
therewith piloting new approaches and processes; and (c) strengthening the implementing
capacity of MINSA to provide assistance in the context of the implementation of
Community Subprojects.

11.    Component 2. Urban Water Supply and Sanitation. (A) The building of improved
capacity in IDAAN for a more strategic planning and management of investments. (B) The
provision of support for the design and implementation of institutional and technically
innovative ways to provide water and sanitation services to the populations of marginalized
urban areas of the territory of the Borrower through the elaboration of innovative
management models for the carrying out, on a pilot basis, of water and sanitation physical
and infrastructure investments in selected small towns of the territory of the Borrower,

9
  MINSA identified the beneficiary communities after appraisal. The 44,000 first phase and 77,000 total
target beneficiaries described in the results framework was an estimation.


                                                                                                          15
including in relation thereto, assisting in the establishment and/or strengthening of
specialized water and sanitation service providers.

12.     Component 3. Policy Development. Strengthening of coordination and cooperation
among key actors in the sector, thereby contributing to building consensus on operational
and institutional choices, plans and strategies, through, inter alia: (a) the provision of
support for the establishment and operationalization of an inter-institutional committee for
water and sanitation matters; (b) the preparation of a national strategic plan for water and
sanitation; (c) the design and carrying out of an IEC campaign on water and sanitation
issues; (d) the carrying out of various surveys, assessments and diagnostic work on water
and sanitation services; and (e) the building of relevant capacity for various staff of
stakeholder institutions and for the media by way of study tours for staff and informational
workshops about Project progress and survey results for the media. This sub-activity
includes: (i) implementation of a nationwide hand washing campaign and (ii) enhancement
of required information on investment needs, investment plans by various stakeholders and
sector outcomes through the development of a sector information system.

13.     Component 4. Support for Project Management. The provision of support for the
administration of the Project to: (a) the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), including in
respect of monitoring and evaluation activities, and (b) MINSA and its regional offices.

Revised Components

14.      During the November 2011 restructuring, the components were revised as follows:
(i) Component 1. The studies and analyses of water sources at the national level activity
were dropped given that water source analyses falls under the responsibility of ANAM.
The community-driven pilot subprojects were also dropped given the legal complexity
involved in transferring funds to communities; (ii) Component 2. The activities to improve
IDAAN’s strategic planning and investment management capacity were moved to the
Panama Metro Water and Sanitation Improvement Project (P119694, Metro.Agua), which
was approved in 2010 and focused exclusively on urban water issues. The Project
continued to finance the designs of the urban works that had already been contracted, but
Metro.Agua took the responsibility to carry out the works. The activities to decentralize
the provision of WSS services to municipalities were canceled given changed sector
priorities. In addition, several innovative, multi-village management models originally
under this component were moved to Component 1; and (iii) Component 3. The education
campaign for WSS was canceled because the hand washing campaign covered the main
objectives of the education campaign making it superfluous. The scope of the sector
information system was reduced given MINSA’s decision to launch a sector monitoring
report and a sector information system focused exclusively on the rural sector.

Other significant changes

15.    The Project underwent two level two restructurings that resulted in a cumulative
extension of the closing date by 30 months. The GoP solicited the first extension (18
months) to respond to initial delays in implementation caused by delays in procuring the



                                                                                         16
initial works and subsequent low budget assignments and the second (12 months) to enable
the completion of several RWSS works, which suffered delays due to limited interest from
construction firms to undertake the works. The November 2011 restructuring also included
a reduction of indicator targets given increases in construction costs due to the construction
boom in Panama as well as the GoP’s decision to install complete septic tanks or improved
latrines (increased space, better flooring, among other features) as opposed to basic latrines.
Specifically, the second phase of water and sanitation works (estimated to benefit 33,000
beneficiaries) was dropped and the beneficiary numbers for phase one were adjusted (from
44,000 to 40,000) to reflect the actual number of expected beneficiaries for phase one
works (at Appraisal, the works under phase one had not yet been identified). The
restructuring also included a reallocation of funds from the urban works (urban activities
were transferred to Metro.Agua) to the RWSS works.


Section 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     Soundness of the Background Analysis. The World Bank conducted a solid
background analysis, incorporating lessons learned from past projects, assessing
community needs and analyzing potential risks. The design of the RWSS component of the
Project reflected the lessons learned from the RHP, such as: (i) including social
accompaniment and sustainability measures as key parts of the Project; (ii) involving
communities in the early stage of the Project to build ownership of the designs; and (iii)
providing capacity building to the entire community as opposed to just the members of the
JAAR given periodic rotation of leadership. MINSA hired an international consulting firm
to conduct field visits to analyze the needs of each community that had expressed interest
in the Project and to select the communities based on established criteria.10

17.      Assessment of Project Design. The PDO reflected the expected outcome of the
Project’s components and was straightforward and measurable. The Project’s activities
were also aligned with the needs of the sector and the population at the time of design. The
need for improvements to existing infrastructure and for the construction of new
infrastructure was clear, as was the need to strengthen institutions (MINSA, IDAAN,
JAARs) in parallel to sustain the structural investments. The inclusion of social
accompaniment throughout the Project was a good strategy to enhance community
ownership and sustainability of the systems. The inclusion of urban activities fitted well in
the Project given the Project’s goal to strengthen the WSS institutional structure (rural and
urban), and IDAAN’s low capacity to execute internationally financed projects on its own
(the PCU was located in MINSA’s DISAPAS). The envisioned sector policy development
activities pinpointed some of the most pressing sector issues, such as the lack of a
systematic coordination mechanism as well as consistent information on the status of the
sector. The Project design also included a sector diagnostic to recommend a course of
action for sector strengthening; the diagnostic, however, was not carried out.

 To initiate activities from the outset, MINSA also selected 42 “fast track” communities in Cocle, Herrera,
10

Veraguas and Guna Yala from its database.


                                                                                                       17
18.     The scope of the Project was ambitious given the amount of financing, the
implementation timeline, and the level of readiness at launch (beneficiary communities
were still being selected and designs had not yet been prepared). The scope, however,
reflected MINSA’s request to bundle urban, rural and sector policy activities together in
order to strengthen the Ministry’s capacity to lead WSS sector policy. In addition, the
Project team saw the Project as an opportunity to catalyze action on various fronts to
promote the sustainability of the sector. Although ambitious, the scope of the Project was
appropriate given the strong rationale for the inclusion of rural, urban and policy activities
at design.

19.     Implementation Arrangements. The Minister of Health appointed the RHP’s PCU,
which was located within DISAPAS, to carry out the Project. The decision to position the
PCU within DISAPAS was strategic given the opportunity it provided to directly fortify a
key sector institution. DISAPAS was responsible for leading sector policy development
and rural WSS interventions but was struggling to carry out these responsibilities. To
strengthen the capacity of DISAPAS to lead the sector and the PCU to implement the
Project,11 the Project team included activities to reorganize, modernize and strengthen the
PCU/DISAPAS in the Project. For example, the design team envisioned the strengthening
of DISAPAS’ presence in regional offices through the establishment of Departments of
Potable Water and Sanitation (DAPOS). The DAPOS were expected to provide regular
technical and social supervision support to the communities and to promote the overall
sustainability of the RWSS systems.

20.     To carry out the urban components, the Project design included the formation of an
operational committee between MINSA and IDAAN. The relationship between IDAAN
and MINSA required a lot of coordination given that MINSA was responsible for managing
the contracts that IDAAN benefited from. To carry out the policy and institutional
strengthening activities, the Project supported the re-establishment of the Inter-Institutional
Committee for Water and Sanitation (CIAPAS), which was composed of representatives
from IDAAN, ANAM, and the Social Investment Fund among other stakeholders.
Utilizing CIAPAS to carry out these activities provided a method to build stakeholder
commitment for the policy and information tools the Project supported.

21.     Assessment of Risks. A detailed assessment of potential risks was carried out during
preparation and implementable mitigation measures were proposed. The Project was
assigned a substantial risk due to the potential lack of sustainability of the RWSS systems,
insufficient capacity of DISAPAS to execute the urban component, a lack of interest in
IDAAN to support the Project’s activities, a lack of political commitment to adopt or
implement a meaningful and strategic plan for the sector, and slow disbursement due to
cumbersome payment control procedures and limited capacity, among other reasons. One
risk that was not identified that materialized during implementation was the delayed
establishment of DAPOS throughout the country. Mitigation measures identified at design

11
  The PCU had recognized capacity issues at the outset. The PAD states, “The staff and consultants of the
PCU are neither sufficient in number, nor are all of them adequately qualified, to satisfactorily carry out the
proposed project.”


                                                                                                           18
included building water board’s institutional capacity to operate and manage systems, the
carrying out of capacity building exercises in DISAPAS as well as the hiring of additional
staff and the use of CIAPAS to build commitment for the sector plan. During
implementation, identified risks on “high unit costs” materialized. Unit costs, however,
rose due to factors outside the control of the Project (construction price increases and the
decision of the GoP to improve standards), negating the effectiveness of the Project’s
mitigation measures. Many other risks did not materialize because of the mitigation
measures in place; for instance, the risk of insufficient coordination among stakeholders
was effectively mitigated through holding regular workshops on policy issues.

22.    Adequacy of Government Commitment. After the closing of the RHP, the DISAPAS
PCU, demonstrating its commitment to building on the advances of the RHP, developed a
proposal for the Project. The Project, originally envisioned to launch soon after the closing
of the RHP, took almost five years to launch because of changes in presidential
administrations and pending sector reform. During this time, MINSA, illustrating its
commitment to the Project, maintained the RHP PCU in place.

Implementation

23.     The Project finished with a Moderately Satisfactory implementation rating given
its achievement of its four results level indicators, seven of its 11 intermediate indicators
as well as its almost full disbursement (89 percent) of the loan. Three key drivers of the
Project’s successful implementation were the strong match between community needs and
Project activities, the reactivation of CIAPAS and the placement of the PCU within
DISAPAS. The Project suffered delays at the outset and went through several periods of
Unsatisfactory and Moderately Unsatisfactory implementation due to slow disbursement
yet managed to overcome obstacles, such as limited social accompaniment and low budget
assignments, and reach completion having substantially met its objectives.

24.     Alignment of the Project’s Investments with Beneficiaries’ Needs and Preferences.
As mentioned in the Design Section, the works were solicited by rural communities and
customized to each community’s preferences. Communities committed to contributing ten
percent of the cost from the outset either through manual labor or cash payments and
participated in the review of the designs before firms initiated construction. The early
involvement of communities in the RWSS works translated into high levels of community
commitment to the success of the works. Communities took a leadership role in supervising
overall construction and advising contractors on the placement of systems given local
geographic considerations.

25.    Reactivation of CIAPAS. The Project’s design to reactivate CIAPAS through
engaging the committee in implementation proved effective for the successful
implementation of the policy development activities (Component 3). The information and
policy tools were developed in coordination with CIAPAS and were introduced to
stakeholders through workshops, one-on-one meetings and other events. This collaborative
approach to rolling out new products led to consistent policy dialogue between
stakeholders and built a user base and demand for the products.



                                                                                          19
26.      Positioning the PCU within DISAPAS. The placement of the PCU within DISAPAS
was key to the Project’s successful implementation. The Project benefited from the
experience of DISAPAS’ social educators and WSS technical staff; they were familiar with
the needs and customs of the communities and committed to successfully extending WSS
solutions to the beneficiary communities. In terms of sector strengthening, the positioning
of the PCU within DISAPAS also enabled the Project to directly build the capacity of the
institution in charge of the sector.

27.     Project Readiness and Initial Delays. Project preparation did not include the
development of RWSS designs, and the Project suffered initial delays due to a lack of
interest of firms to bid on the design, technical supervision and social accompaniment
packages for the RWSS works. The delays were subsequently amplified by the quality of
the designs, which required more revisions than anticipated. To mitigate implementation
delays, the Project launched “fast track,” turnkey projects, permitting implementation to
proceed, albeit at a slow pace. Nevertheless, the majority of the works were not bid on until
mid-2010. Slow budget execution during the first years of implementation resulted in low
national budget assignments to disburse the loan for the rest of the life of the Project
because of Panama’s Fiscal Responsibility Law. 12 Disbursement rates were only at 19
percent at the Mid-Term Review (MTR). The delays resulted in a need to extend the
Project’s closing date by 18 months in the Project’s November 2011 restructuring.

28.     Changes in Leadership. Over the course of implementation, which spanned three
presidential administrations, the PCU had seven different directors. Each leadership change
delayed implementation given the time required for the directors to gain a full
understanding of the Project and Bank procedures. Changes in directors also translated to
changes in staff. In addition to PCU leadership changes, the Project also had four Bank
Task Team Leaders (TTLs). The presence of the same co-TTL for the majority of the life
of the Project, however, mitigated the potential disruption caused by Bank leadership
transitions.

29.      Technical Supervision of Contractors and Supervision Firms. Some of the firms
hired did not provide adequate technical supervision, and DISAPAS’ did not manage to
      13

consistently monitor and enforce the firms’ compliance with their contracts. To minimize
the damage caused by the firms’ weak supervision, DISAPAS took responsibility for the
supervision of many works. But with only ten specialists in regional offices who had
varying degrees of support from the central office (at one point the specialists could not
visit the communities because they did not receive funds for gasoline or per diems from

12
   For example, in 2009, the Project requested US$11.3 million of the loan for 2010, but the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) only assigned the Project US$3.6 million. At that point in time, DISAPAS
had 20 activities ready to bid that required approximately US$9.9 million (180 percent of the assigned
budget). To adapt to the low budget assignments, DISAPAS had to break large international bids into
smaller national bids and request extraordinary budget assignments, a slow procedure that depended on
approval of the Ministry of the Presidency as well as the availability of fiscal space, among other measures
to cover expenditures. In addition, limited budget assignments resulted in delayed payments to contractors,
which slowed the pace of implementation.
13
   Consultant firms were contracted to supervise the works performed by the contractors.


                                                                                                         20
the central office), DISAPAS struggled to provide consistent supervision and
accompaniment to all communities. In some cases, poor supervision resulted in technical
issues and faulty operation of the systems built, requiring additional follow-up work.14
Nevertheless, during the ICR team’s field visits, 15 community members commented
positively on the support provided by DISAPAS, knew DISAPAS personnel by name, and
indicated that they could access DISAPAS personnel when they needed help.

30.     Social Accompaniment. The Project’s inclusion of social accompaniment was a
major step forward for RWSS projects in Panama given that most investment projects were
being implemented without any social assistance The majority of the firms DISAPAS
contracted for social accompaniment, however, did not carry out their work as envisioned.
Rather than accompany the communities for an extended period of time during and after
construction, the firms implemented a three-day capacity building course that introduced
JAAR and community members to the basics of how to use and care for the systems. The
course was not customized based on educational and socio-economic backgrounds levels
and many communities did not receive the reinforcement necessary to integrate the lessons
into their operating structures.16 Recognizing the weaknesses of this approach, the Project
financed additional social consultants and DISAPAS provided additional social support to
the communities. This additional support, however, was not applied systematically; some
communities received more support than others. The ICR team found that some
communities had not received adequate training and were not systematically using
chlorine, cleaning water tanks, managing operation and maintenance (O&M) costs,
utilizing micrometers, or transferring knowledge between outgoing and incoming JAARs.

31.      Mid-Term Review and Restructuring. The Project team conducted a comprehensive
MTR and proposed a restructuring that reflected new institutional priorities as well as the
recent approval of the Metro.Agua Project. The restructuring dropped several complicated
activities, such as water quality analyses and community-driven pilot sub-projects, that
DISAPAS no longer considered priorities. The restructuring also scaled down the initially
proposed sector strengthening activities given that the GoP expected to restructure the
sector in the near future and was hesitant to engage on policy development activities that
had a high possibility of losing relevance. The majority of the urban investments were
transferred to IDAAN’s Metro.Agua Project, which focused exclusively on urban
activities. In addition to better alignment of Metro.Agua with the urban investments, the
transition of activities to Metro.Agua played a key role in the Project’s successful
implementation given that more resources were made available for rural works, which was
very important in light of the overall increase in construction prices. In addition, the
transfer resulted in simplified implementation arrangements given that MINSA no longer
had to coordinate implementation with IDAAN. The Project that emerged post-
restructuring was a solid RWSS Project.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

14
   e.g., Septic tanks collapse after construction. October 2011 Aide Memoire, paragraph 25.
15
   The ICR team conducted field visits in 16 beneficiary communities to assess the Project’s impact.
16
   DISAPAS tried to make up for the weak social accompaniment but did not have enough staff to
accompany all beneficiary communities.


                                                                                                       21
32.     M&E Design. The Project had a logical results framework. The first two PDO-level
indicators on beneficiary use of sustainable water systems and use of basic sanitation
systems directly measured the PDO. The Project had two additional results-level indicators
that guided the Project towards increasing access in the areas of greatest need — poor
communities and indigenous territories. The intermediate indicators were clear and
adequately reflected the key outputs of each component. The implementation arrangements
for M&E for the Project were straightforward; DISAPAS was responsible for monitoring
progress on the indicators and sending regular evaluation reports to the World Bank.
Beyond the Project-level M&E, DISAPAS also committed itself to collecting and reporting
national level indicators on WSS coverage and service through utilizing national level
information tools that the Project helped develop.

33.     M&E Implementation. With the support of the Project, DISAPAS made strides
towards increasing its capacity to monitor WSS service in rural communities throughout
Panama. Towards the Project closure, DISAPAS began to roll out the Rural Water and
Sanitation Information System (SIASAR), 17 a tool designed to systematically monitor
sustainability and quality of RWSS systems, in Project communities. The Project also
supported the development of a report on the state of the WSS sector (MAPAS) that could
be systematically updated to track sector-wide coverage and quality improvement gains.
While DISAPAS adopted these national-level tools, it did not ingrain the Project’s M&E
framework in its operating structure. There was no consistent transfer of knowledge
between DISAPAS’ different operating areas, and DISAPAS struggled to maintain
consistent accounts of the status of RWSS works. Nevertheless, frequent Bank supervision
missions mitigated these M&E weaknesses and motivated DISAPAS to maintain the
results framework up-to-date.

34.     M&E Utilization. With regard to Project-level M&E, the Ministry of the Presidency
utilized the indicator information that DISAPAS collected on the Project communities to
track progress towards the presidential goal to extend potable water access to 90 percent of
the population. DISAPAS, however, did not consistently utilize the results framework to
provide Project-implementation feedback to MINSA’s leaders. With regard to national-
level M&E, DISAPAS utilizes MAPAS as a sector-reference tool and is planning a second
phase of the MAPAS report. DISAPAS is also continuing the role out of SIASAR
throughout Panama with the hope of utilizing the tool to guide investments and to make
informed policy decisions.




Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


17
   SIASAR is accessible to the public (www.siasar.org) and includes detailed information on quality,
coverage, use and sustainability of RWSS systems. SIASAR is implemented via in-person surveys and
field visits. Currently, SIASAR is being extended throughout Panama, Nicaragua, Honduras, and the
Dominican Republic.


                                                                                                       22
35.     Social Safeguard Compliance. The Project complied with the social safeguards and
finished with a Satisfactory rating. The Project triggered the Involuntary Resettlement
Safeguard O.P. 4.12 and successfully completed the registry of easements and land
donations in 139 projects using the instrument for voluntary easements in the Project’s
resettlement framework. Land acquisition and resettlement did not occur under the Project.
The Project also complied with the Indigenous Peoples O.P. 4.10 safeguard. The Project
successfully worked in indigenous communities through establishing relationships with
community leaders, defining the intervention collaboratively, and signing cooperation
agreements with the indigenous congresses at the outset of the Project among other
measures. The Project also helped institute a new approach to RWSS interventions that
included social accompaniment. DISAPAS designed bidding documents that ensured
participation of beneficiaries before, during and after completion of public works. The
bidding documents required the contractual party to have a qualified social team with at
least five years of experience. DISAPAS was responsible for overseeing effective
implementation. The social strategy initiated by the Project was institutionalized at MINSA
and applied to all the other investment projects.

36.     Environmental Safeguard Compliance. The Project finished with a Moderately
Satisfactory environmental safeguard rating. The Project was classified as a category B
project and was not expected to have significant negative environmental impacts. The
Project had an environmental framework that was not consistently applied throughout
implementation due to lags in hiring a staff member devoted to environmental issues. By
the end of Project implementation, however, DISAPAS had a person dedicated to
environmental issues. DISAPAS also worked to simplify the process to obtain water source
permits from ANAM. In addition, DISAPAS designed a best practice environmental guide
for the construction of sanitation works that DISAPAS is currently using to train its
regional staff.

37.      Financial Management. The Project finished with a Moderately Satisfactory
Financial Management (FM) rating. DISAPAS submitted acceptable interim financial
reports and external audit reports on a timely basis. Other positive points included that: (i)
the FM provided reasonable assurance that the loan proceeds were used for the intended
purposes; (ii) the FM-related arrangements allowed an appropriate level of transparency
that facilitated oversight and control and supported smooth Project implementation; and
(iii) the legal FM-related covenants were met. DISAPAS also encountered the following
FM issues that were largely resolved through the implementation of action plans and close
Bank supervision: (i) general delays at the start of the Project due to a lack of FM software
- DISAPAS relied on excel to manage financial flows until 2009; (ii) the annual operating
plan was not prepared on a regular basis; (iii) the financial transactions were not recorded
in a timely manner in the FM Information System; (iv) the fixed assets financed by the
Project were neither properly recorded nor reconciled with accounting records; (v) the
Project’s operational manual was neither periodically revised nor used for administrative
purposes; and (vi) budget funds annually approved by the Congress were not sufficient to
finance the totality of activities implemented during any given fiscal year.18


18   At the time of the ICR, the final audit report was pending completion.


                                                                                           23
38.      Procurement. The Project finished with a Moderately Satisfactory procurement
rating and experienced no mis-procurement. DISAPAS had a dedicated procurement
officer on staff. The Project also successfully utilized the country system, Panama Compra,
to acquire several goods and services. Procurement issues included: (i) a lack of decision
making by DISAPAS’ numerous directors; (ii) procurement planning resulted in a list of
activities and did not account for implementation times; (iii) many contracts were awarded
for individual needs as they were requested, rather than consolidating similar items to
facilitate efficient procurement; and (iv) when contractors did not meet the delivery
schedule, the PCU did not rescind the contracts. As a result, the GoP needed to finance
several contracts with its own funds.

Post-completion operation/Next phase

39.      Unfinished works. At the time of the Project’s closing, two construction firms were
in the process of completing the final RWSS works. The works represent a small fraction
of the Project and do not significantly impact the achievement of indicators. The Minister
of Health has expressed his commitment to ensuring the full completion of the works.

40.     Another pending activity is the installation of meters in the communities that form
part of the Aguas de la Montaña JIAR. Currently, the JIAR has 1400 meters but lacks
knowledge on how to introduce the meters to community members and to utilize the meters
for volumetric-based tariffs. DISAPAS and the JIAR developed an action plan, which
includes community capacity building on micrometer use, and aims to install the meters by
June 2015.

41.     Next Phase. DISAPAS has a project profile for another phase of the Project with
the World Bank and will be presenting it for consideration to the MEF in 2015. MINSA
wants to build on the progress of the PASAP Project, further develop sustainability
measures and extend coverage in indigenous communities. In addition, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB) and the Spanish Agency for International Development
Cooperation (AECID) are planning on implementing a RWSS project that is based on this
Project’s RWSS intervention model (social accompaniment, community contribution, and
technical assistance from MINSA). The IADB/AECID Project would finance the execution
of designs for the second phase works that were not implemented due to a shortage of
funds. The IADB/AECID project would support the formation of DAPOS as well as the
extension of SIASAR. The continued rollout, updating and use of SIASAR, will provide
the Bank and DISAPAS with tools to measure the long-term effectiveness of the PASAP
Project.


Section 3. Assessment of Outcomes

The PDO for this Project was to increase access to sustainable water supply and
sanitation services in participating communities of the territory of the Borrower.




                                                                                         24
Relevance of objectives, design and implementation
Rating: High

Relevance of Objectives
Rating: High

42.     The Project’s development objective remains highly relevant for Panama and the
World Bank. The current administration has highlighted the importance of WSS and is
rolling out a plan to extend coverage throughout the country. The administration’s plan,
however, highlights zero latrines, decreasing the relevance of the Project’s investments in
latrines at a political level. At a practical level, however, the ICR team found that for many
communities, latrines may still be the best solution given scarce water resources and
limited management capacity. The Project’s objectives also remain highly relevant for the
World Bank. The proposed 2015 to 2021 Country Partnership Framework “seeks to
support Panama’s continued high growth, while ensuring inclusion and opportunities for
marginalized and indigenous groups, and bolstering resilience and sustainability.”19 The
2015 Systematic Country Diagnostic also emphasizes the need to close coverage gaps,
especially in indigenous territories. The Project’s focus on extending and improving
sustainable WSS access to marginalized rural population and indigenous groups fits
perfectly with these objectives.

Relevance of Design and implementation
Rating: Substantial

43.     The substantial relevance of the Project design is highlighted by the development
of the IADB’s RWSS project, which is based on the design of this Project, as well as the
interest DISAPAS has displayed in soliciting a follow-up project from the World Bank.
The continued relevance of design is also demonstrated by DISAPAS’ renewed focus on
building social accompaniment capacity throughout the regions as well as the incorporation
of community contribution in future projects. In addition, the Project’s inclusion of
micrometers in many of the beneficiary communities will assist the GoP in implementing
a recent decree that mandates the use of micrometers in JAARs throughout Panama. Minor
design shortcomings include the design’s reliance on the creation of the DAPOS and
inclusion of policy strengthening activities that were not fully defined at the outset.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Efficacy
Rating: Substantial

44.     The Project achieved its PDO to increase access to sustainable WSS services in
participating communities, surpassing all of its four PDO-level indicators (See Table 1
below). First, the Project increased access to sustainable20 water systems to approximately

19
  Country Partnership Framework for the Republic of Panama FY2015 to 2021, Report No. 93425-PA.
20
  As defined in the Data Sheet, systems were considered sustainable when they achieved a combined score
of .66 or above on the RWSS Information System (SIASAR) system and service provider surveys.


                                                                                                    25
59 percent of beneficiaries, surpassing the Project’s 56 percent target. The Project defined
systems as sustainable when: (i) the systems were functioning, delivered services regularly,
and were designed to ensure long-term supply; and (ii) the JAARs met on a regular basis
and collected tariffs that covered O&M costs. The Project design team realized that
achieving sustainability was a long-term process that for many communities would take
longer than five years to achieve; hence, the goal of extending sustainable access to only a
percentage of total beneficiaries. As Table 2 indicates, however, the communities that did
not meet the Project’s definition of sustainability should not be considered unsustainable.
Rather, they are on the path to sustainability and, as a result of the Project, have key tools
at hand to achieve full sustainability. Second, the Project achieved its outcome indicator to
increase use of basic sanitation systems 21 to 15,900 or more beneficiaries through
extending access to sanitation solutions to 25,564 beneficiaries. Importantly, the Project
focused its RWSS interventions in poor and indigenous territories. The Project’s two
remaining PDO-level indicators on percentage of beneficiaries in poor areas (89 percent,
surpassing the Project’s 80 percent target) and in indigenous territories (44 percent,
surpassing the Project’s 25 percent target) guided investments to these oftentimes
overlooked populations. The Project’s full achievement of its PDO-level indicators
illustrates the Project’s substantial achievement of its development objective.

Table 1. PDO Level Indicators
                                               Restructured
      Indicator         Original Target                               Actual Value             Percent
                                                  Target
 Use of sustainable    70%                   56%                   59%                   105%
 water system
 Sanitation Use        26,400                15,900                25,564                161%
 Poor areas            >80%                  >80%                  89%                   111%
 Indigenous areas      >25%                  >25%                  44%                   147%

Table 2. A Closer Look at Sustainability: A Selection of Results from the SIASAR Survey
                       At least 16 hours     JAAR meets at         Tariffs cover         System design
                       of service per day    least twice a year    O&M costs             ensures long-term
                                                                                         supply
 Percent of            79%                   62%                   26%                   87%
 Communities

45.     In addition to surpassing all of the PDO-level indicators, the ICR team’s field visits
revealed a high level of satisfaction among Project beneficiaries. Box 1 highlights feedback
from the community members. In demonstration of their satisfaction with the works,
various communities greeted the ICR team with pots of Panamanian chicken soup,
traditional rice dishes and, in one case, fireworks. The Project had a transformative effect
on the lives of the beneficiaries, saving many beneficiaries up to two hours a day of time
previously spent collecting water and improving community health through promoting the
regular application of chlorine in drinking water.


21
  In Panama, there is a culture of using sanitation solutions as opposed to practicing open defecation. In the
ICR mission’s sample survey, all beneficiaries with functioning latrines were using the latrines. Given this
information, the ICR team deduced that the beneficiaries who received latrines through the Project are
using the latrines.


                                                                                                          26
Box 1. Comments from Community Members
 “We went fifty years without potable water – some community members spent two hours per day collecting
 water from the closest spring.”
 “The majority of our community was eager to contribute to the Project cost through manual labor or cash
 payments – our motivation was very high given the need we had for a new water system.”
 “Having water 24 hours a day, seven days a week is an extraordinary blessing.”
 “Our community is using the latrines – before the Project, we used the fields.”
 “We drank water straight from the stream. We learned the importance of applying chlorine through the
 capacity building sessions.”
 “We pay two dollars a month for service – if someone doesn’t pay for three months, we cut the service!

46.    To fully analyze the scope and impact of the Project, the ICR also assesses the
degree of accomplishment of its three specific objectives.

Specific objective #1: Enable participating households and communities in rural and poor
urban areas to access WSS services through innovative approaches geared to providing
service on a sustainable basis.

47.    The Project laid the groundwork for sustainable service in participating
communities through a variety of innovative approaches. Rather than focus only on
extending infrastructure to the communities, the Project paired infrastructure investments
with social accompaniment to build community and JAAR capacity to manage the systems
on their own. The incorporation of social accompaniment alongside construction was
innovative for DISAPAS at the time of design and has now become part of DISAPAS’
standard operating procedure for RWSS works. Utilizing this sustainability-focused
approach, the Project supported 160 JAARs, surpassing the Project’s target of 150, and
improved access to new or improved water systems for 35,127 beneficiaries (out of a target
of 40,000) and new sanitation solutions for 25,564 beneficiaries (out of a target of 26,500).
The strengthening activities helped nearly 26 percent of the JAARs establish tariffs that
covered O&M costs, exceeding the Project’s target of 20 percent, and 59 percent of the
JAARs achieve sustainable service.

48.      As described in the Implementation Section, however, the social accompaniment
needed to be strengthened to instill key sustainability measures in many of the beneficiary
communities. Although a firm successfully provided social accompaniment during the
RWSS project identification phase, the firms hired to provide social accompaniment during
implementation focused on providing a three-day capacity building session in
communities. To overcome the limited social accompaniment, DISAPAS, in an ad-hoc
manner, employed staff and individual consultants to provide additional accompaniment,
but they did not have the capacity to fill all the gaps left by the firms. Many beneficiaries
did not receive the consistent support necessary to build beneficiaries’ capacity to manage
and sustain the works. For instance, the Project supported the installation of micrometers,
an innovative approach to promoting sustainable service provision, in the majority of
beneficiary communities. The communities, however, did not receive ample training and,
at the time of the ICR, were largely unaware of the benefits of the meters. Despite these
weaknesses, the Project achieved it sustainability goals, indicating high potential for future
projects with more consistent and tailored social accompaniment.



                                                                                                   27
49.     In addition to employing innovative measures to support sustainability in individual
JAARs, the Project paved the way for the formation of water board associations as well as
JIARs. The Project supported the creation of the first water board association, La
Asociación Juntas Administradoras de Agua de Acueductos Rurales Chiriquí
(AJAARCHI), in Panama. Prior to the Project, no legal precedent for the establishment of
associations existed. The Project financed a consultant who guided the process for the legal
formation of the AJAARCHI and prepared documentation and established guidelines by
which future associations could readily become established legally. The consultant also
helped the AJAARCHI develop a business plan. To help the Association launch after its
legal establishment, the Project supplied capital money for the purchase of office and
technical equipment. The AJAARCHI is still in the initial phase of growth but has a central
office, holds regular meetings, and offers JAAR members a range of services, such as
assistance obtaining water concessions from ANAM. The Project also helped legally
establish JIARS and supported Panama’s first JIARs, Alto Caballero and Aguas de la
Montaña, through developing internal regulations for their operation and providing
business capacity building training.

50.     The Project also successfully laid the groundwork for extending WSS access to
nearly 90,000 urban residents, exceeding its 70,000 target, through financing designs for
WSS works in Chilibre, Pedernal and Nuevo Mexico among other urban areas. IDAAN
has already begun executing some of the designs and is in the process of bidding for others.
In addition, the Project supported the development of conceptual designs for IDAAN that
will benefit approximately 50,000 people in urban areas (See Annex 2 for more details).

51.     The Project provided communities with the necessary infrastructure for sustainable
WSS service and made significant headway towards achieving sustainability in the JAARs.
With consistent social accompaniment, however, more communities would have reached
a point of sustainable operation. Based on the Substantial progress towards ensuring
sustainability and the Substantial progress towards extending access, the ICR rates this sub-
objective as Substantial.

Specific objective #2: Initiate a policy dialogue under the leadership of MINSA and
generate the knowledge basis for evidence-based decision-making with the long-term goal
of strong institutions, a focus on beneficiaries and better coordination among stakeholders.

52.    The Project’s role in reactivating CIAPAS, promoting key RWSS policy, creating
WSS information tools, and developing policy frameworks to guide the various
stakeholders’ investments in the sector, facilitated policy dialogue and laid the basis for
evidence-based decision-making.

53.    CIAPAS. The Project successfully reactivated CIAPAS, a committee that prior to
the Project had ceased to operate, through engaging it on the development and roll out of
the policy and information tools the Project supported. CIAPAS is now an established
committee that operates independently from the Project and enhances overall dialogue and
coordination between key sector stakeholders.




                                                                                          28
54.     RWSS Policy. The Project supported the passage of key pieces of legislation for the
RWSS sector, including the legal establishment of DAPOS22 and JIARS as well as clear
norms on the proper use of rural aqueducts and JAARs, JIARs, operators and users’
responsibilities.23 Given varying levels of political interest during implementation (which
spanned the course of three presidential administrations) and pending sector wide reform,
the passage of the legislation did not take place until the last year of implementation,
limiting its impact on beneficiary communities during the lifespan of the Project.
Nevertheless, the legislation established the legal structure for sustainable RWSS
provision. By the close of the Project, DISAPAS had already established three DAPOS and
was in the process of constituting more. The establishment of DAPOS will result in more
WSS specialist in regional offices to provide technical, social and general support to rural
communities.

55.     Sector Information Tools. The Project supported the development of several sector
information tools that promote information-based decision-making. SIASAR, which
assesses the state of RWSS provision in communities from a management, structural and
technical assistance angle, has been implemented in the beneficiary communities and is
being rolled out, with the assistance of non-governmental organizations and other
government institutions, to the approximately 3,000 communities with JAARs in
Panama.24 In the long-term, DISAPAS plans to extend SIASAR to all rural communities
in Panama. The development and continued roll out of SIASAR will transform the sector
given the current lack of up-to-date information on the status of WSS in rural communities.
SIASAR will play a key role in helping DISAPAS and other institutions pinpoint the
communities with the greatest needs. SIASAR has also been adopted as a tool by the
Central America and Dominican Republic Forum for Potable Water and Sanitation
(FOCARD-APS).

56.      The Project, in partnership with the Water and Sanitation Program (WSP), also
supported the development of a sector-wide monitoring report on WSS (MAPAS) that
provides the GoP with a framework from which to systematically evaluate and monitor the
sector and to guide investments. MAPAS provides a diagnosis of the current status of the
sector, identifies current bottlenecks and recommends key measures to move the sector
forward. Like SIASAR, MAPAS has been introduced among various sector agencies and
has been adopted as a tool by the FOCARD-APS. In addition, the Project worked in
partnership with WSP to develop a National RWSS strategy. The current administration is
reviewing the strategy and plans to utilize it to meet its WSS goals.

57.    Frameworks for RWSS works. The Project also played a key role in establishing
standards for RWSS works between the various stakeholders in the sector through
supporting the development of a Manual for RWSS interventions (MASAR), which
includes social and environmental aspects as well as JAAR strengthening methods. In
addition, the Project supported the development of revised technical norms for RWSS

22
   Resolution No. 12 on January 13, 2014.
23
   Executive Decree No. 1839 passed on December 5, 2014 replaced Decree 40 of 1994 and Resolution 28
of 1994.
24
   www.siasar.org


                                                                                                  29
works. As with SIASAR and MAPAS, DISAPAS worked in collaboration with CIAPAS
and held workshops to introduce MASAR and the technical norms to the various sector
agencies.

58.     Table 3 captures the evolution of DISAPAS throughout the life of the Project,
highlighting the changes the Project helped catalyze. These changes cannot be solely
attributed to the Project. The Project helped initiate these changes, but the commitment of
MINSA and the GoP to strengthening the sector led to the transformation shown in Table
3.

Table 3. Snapshot of DISAPAS Before and After the Project
                Before Project                                        After Project
 DISAPAS is primarily an implementation agency    DISAPAS plays an active role in policy
                                                  development at the central and regional levels
 No formal regional RWSS structure at the         DAPOS legally established, increasing DISAPAS
 governmental level                               presence in the field
 No central, up-to-date knowledge base on the     SIASAR system established
 status of WSS services in rural communities
 No functioning coordination system to organize   CIAPAS re-activated and MASAR developed
 sector activities and systemize interventions
 Limited social accompaniment in RWSS works       Social accompaniment included in all RWSS
                                                  works contracts and fortified through the presence
                                                  of regional staff
 No community based structure beyond JAARS to     Associations and JIARS legally established,
 promote sustainable service provision            offering JAARs methods to promote their own
                                                  sustainability



59.     The Project supported the development of policy that will strengthen the RWSS
sector’s institutional structure and tools that will support knowledge-based decision-
making and inter-institutional synchronization. DISAPAS developed the majority of these
policies and tools towards the end of the Project and still needs to fully integrate them into
its operating plan. The incorporation of several of these tools in the IADB/AECID Project
as well as the proposed World Bank Project will help ensure the integration of the tools.
The Project also met the two intermediate indicators related to this specific-objective (See
Data Sheet). Given the above, the ICR rates the Project’s accomplishment of this specific
objective as Substantial.

Specific objective #3 Improve sanitation and hygiene practices.

60.     The Project benefited 25,564 people with new latrines or flush toilets. The new
latrines/flush toilets have improved sanitation practices, especially for those beneficiaries
who did not have access to sanitation solution prior to the Project and those beneficiaries
who did not have a source of running water (either through a sink or a shower) to wash
their hands after using the latrines. The Project exceeded its target of more than 15,900
beneficiaries using the new or improved sanitation solutions. In addition, the Project
successfully supported a hand-washing campaign in which 387 facilitators were trained to
teach the communities and organizations in their regions. The hand-washing campaign
reached 266,397 people (47,463 who attended workshops by the consultancies and 163,833


                                                                                                   30
attended capacity building sessions by the facilitators). The firm hired to carry out the
monitoring of the initiative distributed 200,000 surveys to the regions covered by the
campaign. The surveys revealed that the large majority of the beneficiaries correctly
remembered the messages from the hand washing campaign; for example, over 90 percent
of beneficiaries remembered the importance of washing their hands directly after using the
restroom.25 The Project exceeded its target to expose at least 200,000 beneficiaries to the
hand washing messages and to have them recall the key messages (See Data Sheet for more
detail).

61.    Given the Project’s success in promoting the use of improved sanitation solutions
and hand washing, the ICR rates the outcome of this sub-objective as High.

62.     The Project’s Substantial achievement of its first and second specific objectives,
and the High achievement of its third specific objective support the Project’s Substantial
efficacy rating.

Efficiency
Rating: Modest

63.     An economic analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact of the WSS works
carried out in the rural communities.

64.      At Appraisal, benefits were calculated only for the rural water component and were
based on the opportunity cost of the time beneficiaries spent collecting water. For this ICR,
the evaluation was carried out using the same methodology to estimate benefits; however,
this evaluation considered benefits from rural water works and rural sanitation
interventions. Costs and benefits were transformed to 2007 prices in order to compare them
against the projections at appraisal. Health benefits were neither included at appraisal nor
in this evaluation.

65.     Actual costs of the rural interventions (US$23.4 million) were twice as much as
foreseen at appraisal (US$11 million). Even when actual costs are transformed to 2007
prices (taking out inflation during implementation), real costs (US$18 million) remain 65
percent higher than projected at appraisal. The reasons for the cost increase can be
explained by: (a) Panama City has been experiencing a construction boom, which has
pushed the prices for materials and labor up and has driven contractors away from smaller,
dispersed rural works. This aspect was probably not appropriately factored in the cost
estimate during appraisal; and (b) during implementation the GoP adopted higher standards
for sanitation, using complete septic tank units instead of basic latrines, which resulted in
cost increases.

Table 4. Cost of Rural WSS Interventions Foreseen at Appraisal vs. Actual
     Rural Interventions                                      PAD              Actual        Variation
     Total Costs (Million USD)

25
  PROINTEC, Consultoría para el diseño y ejecución de actividades para la promoción de la práctica de
lavado de manos.


                                                                                                        31
        Predicted Costs                                       11.0
        Actual costs (nominal prices)                                           23.4           113%
        Actual costs (2007 prices)                                              18.1           65%

66.    In 2011, the World Bank team restructured the Project and addressed the cost
increase by allocating a higher amount to the rural component as well as reducing the
expected number of beneficiaries.

67.    Unit Costs. Even though the costs were higher and the number of beneficiaries
lower than expected, the unit cost per household was comparable to costs in other Central
American Countries (see Annex 3 for more detail).

68.     Results of the economic evaluation of water works show that the higher costs and
the reduced number of beneficiaries have affected benefits. The internal rate of return
(IRR) on water interventions was significantly lower than expected at appraisal: actual net
benefits were just US$10,000 compared with the US$7.4 million predicted. Actual IRRs
also only reached 12 percent compared with the 24 percent predicted. Sanitation works on
the other hand present IRR of 20 percent IRR and net benefits reached US$3 million.
Sanitation results compensated for the lower IRR obtained in water; the weighted average
return for both interventions show good economic results, despite higher costs and fewer
beneficiaries. The Project brought important benefits to the communities. Benefits were 17
percent higher than costs, IRR averaged 15 percent, and net benefits reached US$3 million.

69.     Even though the combined results for WSS works show benefits higher than their
costs and IRR as high as 15 percent, the positive result is due to the significant impact that
sanitation works had in the communities. The water interventions did not produce the
benefits anticipated at appraisal due to higher than anticipated costs. Given the substantial
economic benefits of the sanitation investments and the modest economic benefits of the
water interventions, overall Efficiency is rated as Modest.

Table 5. Economic Results for Water and Sanitation Interventions in Rural Communities

                                              PAD                               ACTUAL
     Rural interventions            Net Benefit                       Net Benefit
                                   (Million USD)        IRR          (Million USD)         IRR
     Water                              7.40            24%                0.01            12%
     Sewerage                            n/a                               3.30            20%
     Total                                                                 3.31            15%

Overall Outcome Rating

70. Given the Project’s High Relevance of objectives, design and implementation (High
    Relevance of Objective, Substantial Relevance of Design), Substantial Efficacy and
    Modest Efficiency, the ICR rates the overall outcome as Moderately Satisfactory.26

26
  In accordance with the ICR Guidelines, Annex B, “For projects whose project objectives (as
encompassed by the stated PDOs and key associated outcome targets) have been formally revised – through
approval by the Bank authority that approved the original loans/credits/grants – project outcome will be


                                                                                                      32
Section 4: Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

71.     The risk to the development outcome depends heavily on the capacity of the JAARs
to operate and maintain their systems, the development and strengthening of the DAPOS
to provide technical and social assistance to the communities as well as the continued roll
out of sector information tools so that MINSA and other sector agencies can pinpoint
communities that are in need of assistance or further investment. As indicated by the first
PDO-level indicator, approximately 59 percent of the JAARs have sustainable water
systems. These JAARs are capable of maintaining their systems independently of outside
support; the risk to their sustainability is low. The risk level for the JAARs that are still en
route to sustainability, however, is moderate given that they still depend heavily on the
support provided by DISAPAS.

72.     The current administration’s emphasis on strengthening RWSS provision as well
as the recent approval of policy that formally establishes the DAPOS and legalizes JAARs
and JIARS, however, bodes well for the strengthening of DISAPAS and the overall
sustainability of the JAARs. In addition, the implementation of the IADB/AECID project
and the proposal for a new World Bank RWSS project will further contribute to the
strengthening of the institutional structure at the community, regional and central levels.
The new projects are also promoting the continued implementation of key policy tools,
such as SIASAR, that will facilitate knowledge-based decision-making at a policy and
investment level. These developments will minimizes the risk that the communities will be
left without assistance to manage and sustain their systems.


Section 5: Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance
Quality at Entry: Moderately Satisfactory

73.     The Bank team conducted a solid background analysis. The team incorporated
lessons learned from the RHP, identified most major risks to the Project and proposed
detailed mitigation measures to those risks. The Project was also highly relevant to both
the GoP and World Bank goals at the time of preparation. Minor shortcomings in Project
design included an over estimation of political willingness to pass key policy measures as
well as the inclusion of several activities, such as the urban works, which exceeded
DISAPAS’ capacity to implement.

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory

74.      The TTLs left a detailed record of Project progress, identified the Project’s major
issues, provided constant supervision support and processed two restructurings that
facilitated implementation. The Bank team committed itself to a closer-than-usual

assessed against both the original and revised project objectives,” the ICR team did not conduct a split
evaluation given that the Project only underwent Level II Restructurings. .


                                                                                                           33
supervision – at times corresponding with DISAPAS technical staff on a daily basis – to
make up for noted weaknesses. For example, when the DISAPAS team was struggling to
collect and organize M&E information, the Bank supervision team provided a consultant
to develop a dynamic table that would systemize and organize information on the
indicators. In addition, the Bank team, in partnership with the WSP, organized workshops
for the sector’s various stakeholders to introduce the Project’s policy tools, such as
MAPAS, augmenting the usefulness and sustainability of these outputs. The team also
collaborated with WSP to promote DISAPAS’ engagement and knowledge sharing on a
regional level.

75.    Based on the Moderately Satisfactory rating for Quality at Entry and Quality of
Supervision, the ICR rates overall Bank performance as Moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.     Project implementation took place over the course of three presidential
administrations, and each administration included extending and improving WSS access in
their high-level goals. The GoP legally established DAPOS, JIARs, and Associations,
laying a strong groundwork for sustainable RWSS management. The GoP is also planning
a project with the BID/AECID that builds upon the gains of this Project, illustrating
commitment to achieving sustainable RWSS service. Government agencies also played an
active role in the successful re-launch of the CIAPAS. Minor shortcomings included the
appointment of seven different leaders to head DISAPAS, disrupting consistent
implementation given the time required for each leader to understand the Project and the
World Bank guidelines and procedures.

Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.     Despite the high leadership turnover which disrupted coordination and
prioritization of activities, and understaffing in regional offices, which limited the capacity
of DISAPAS to supervise contractors’ work and provide social accompaniment, DISAPAS
achieved significant results. DISAPAS disbursed 89 percent of the loan, surpassed all of
the PDO-level indicators and achieved seven of the 11 intermediate indicators. One of the
keys to DISAPAS’ success was the presence of several staff members with many years of
experience, strong relationships with the rural communities, and a high-level of
commitment to the successful implementation of the Project. These committed team
members played a critical role in driving the Project forward through periods of limited
funding and disjointed leadership.

78.     Based on the Moderately Satisfactory rating for Government performance and the
Moderately Satisfactory rating for Implementing Agency performance, the ICR rates
overall Borrower performance as Moderately Satisfactory.



                                                                                            34
Section 6: Lessons Learned

79.     Policy development activities should not be minimized in the results framework.
Projects should highlight policy development activities (and other non-structural
components) prominently in the results framework to prevent the activities from losing
importance in execution and to increase the robustness of the frameworks. Policy
development activities are attractive activities to drop during execution given the general
difficulties in implementing the activities, especially across government administration
changes, as well as their typical low-weight in terms of budget assignments. In the Project,
a number of policy development activities, such as the initiative to promote high-level
sector wide strengthening, were dropped without much notice.

80.     Project design should not rely on yet-to-be-formed structures. Projects design
should not rely heavily on structures that are not established at the outset given the
probability that changes in political will or other unexpected occurrences could impact their
creation. For example, in the Project, the design was heavily reliant on the formation of the
DAPOS, which were key to the sustainability of the RWSS works. Pending sector reform,
however, resulted in the establishment of the DAPOS only in the Project’s last year of
execution.

81.      Tariff schemes should consider local economic dynamics. Given the wide socio-
economic characteristics of the communities, tariff schemes should not be applied
uniformly but should reflect the capacity and dynamics of each community. Community
methods for covering O&M costs vary considerably. Communities sometimes perform
maintenance activities on their own or raise money for maintenance through group
activities, such as holding raffles and selling tamales. Communities’ capacity to pay for
WSS service also varies dramatically; some communities, for example, are non-monetized.

82.     Engage communities from the outset to promote sustainability. Sufficient time
should be allocated to the phase prior to design to ensure that users understand the pros,
cons and maintenance requirements of each system. Building community capacity to select
systems that are adequate for their needs and reflect their capacity to operate and maintain
the systems increases the likelihood of sustainability. In addition, allocating the
communities the responsibility to select the type of system increases the communities’ full
satisfaction with and commitment to the long-term care of the system. For instance, in the
Project, the communities selected the type of system they wanted and were consulted on
the design plans prior to construction, building a high level of community ownership of the
Project. In addition to engaging communities at the outset, including social accompaniment
that is tailored to each community’s needs and adapts to the evolution of their needs
throughout implementation will also play a key role in promoting sustainability.

83.     Cultural Sensitivity around Poverty Labels. It is important to be sensitive to the
cultural context and stakeholder perceptions regarding income classifications. Project
descriptions that could offend the beneficiaries should be avoided in order to ensure
ownership and pride in the project. In this case, the original Project title included the words




                                                                                            35
“poor” and “extreme poor”, but this was changed after beneficiaries expressed (strong?)
reservations about being labeled “poor”


Section 7. Borrower Comments

84.    The Borrower reviewed the ICR and did not identify any substantial disagreements
with the analysis. The Borrower’s feedback on the ICR was incorporated in the main text.
See Annex 5 for a full translation of the Borrower’s comments:.




                                                                                     36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                            Appraisal Restructuring            Actual     Percentage
     Components             Estimate    November 9,             costs         of
                           June 6, 2007    2011                           Appraisal

Component 1- Rural
                                    24.10       27.90           25.70        106.6%
WSS and Hygiene
Component 2 – Urban
                                     9.00        1.90            .95         10.5%
WSS
Component 3 – Policy
                                     2.10        1.30            1.32        62.9%
Development
Component 4 – Project
                                     4.20        8.30            6.79        161.6%
Management
Total Project Costs                 39.40       39.40          34.7627       88.2%


(b) Financing

                               Appraisal     Actual   Percentage
     Source of Funds           Estimate      (USD of Appraisal
                             (USD millions) millions)

Counterpart financing                     5.1        5.5           108%
Community financing                       2.3        2.3           100%
International Bank for
Reconstruction     and                    32         28.6           89%
Development
Total                                   39.40       36.40          92%




27
  DISAPAS has an extended grace period until May 2015 to spend the remaining 1.64 (difference between
total amount disbursed and total amount spent to date).


                                                                                                   37
Annex 2. Detailed Project Outputs

The Project supported the following activities:

 Activity                       Output
 Component One: RWSS & Hygiene
 RWSS Infrastructure             Installed latrines or basic flush toilets benefiting 25,564
                                   people
                                 Installed New/Improved Household Water Connections
                                   benefiting 35,127 people
 Micrometer Installation         Purchase of 4,000 micrometers
                                 Installation of 2,600 meters
 RWSS Community Capacity  Social accompaniment before, during and after
 Building                          construction of the works.
                                        o Assistance from DISAPAS personnel, firms and
                                            individual consultants
                                        o A three day consultancy to build the communities
                                            capacity to operate, manage and conserve their
                                            WSS systems.
 Pilot of Association of JAARs  Legal establishment of first Association of JAARs in
                                   Panama
                                 Development of internal operation guidelines and
                                   business plan
                                 Capital money for the purchase of office and technical
                                   equipment
 Decree 40 and Resolution 28     Passage of Executive Decree 1839 On December 5, 2014
                                        o Revises and replaces Decree 40 and Resolution
                                            28
                                        o Legally establishes JIARS, and outlines the roles
                                            and responsibilities of JAAR/JIAAR board
                                            members, operators and systems users.
                                        o Establishes minimum tariffs and mandates the use
                                            of micrometers in tariff calculation
                                 DISAPAS is currently introducing the new legislation,
                                   which was developed with input from JAARs/JIARs, to
                                   rural communities across the country.
 Resolution establishing the  In January 13 2014, the GoP passed Resolution 12 to
 DAPOS                             legally establish DAPOS throughout the country
                                 Three DAPOS (Chiriquí, Coclé, Veraguas) established by
                                   Project’s close
 Strengthening          Comarca  Training on WSS issues in the comarcas’ governments
 Commissions                     Office equipment
 Water permits                   DISAPAS conducted a study to simplify the process for
                                   JAARs to obtain water permits
                                        o ANAM approved the results
 Component Two: Urban WSS
 The Project financed the The Metro.Agua Project is financing the execution of the
 designs for WSS improvements designs. The designs financed by PASAP that are currently
 in marginalized urban areas    under construction or in the bidding process include:


                                                                                           38
Activity                       Output

                                       Línea     Chilibre-Pedernal:     69,673      projected
                                        beneficiaries with new/improved water connections
                                    Nuevo Mexico I y II: 5,680 projected beneficiaries
                                        with new/improved water and sanitation access
                                    Grupo C: 12,336 projected beneficiaries with
                                        new/improved water access.
                                Designs financed by this Project that have yet to be launched
                               include:
                                    Sewerage in Pedernal, which will benefit 2304
                                        residents

                               The Project also supported the development of several
                               conceptual designs.

IDAAN Strengthening            Office equipment for IDAAN
                               Large majority of IDAAN strengthening activities moved
                                to the Metro.Agua Project
Component Three: Policy Development
SIASAR                        Development and roll out of the SIASAR tool
                                (www.siasar.org)
MAPAS                         Development and roll out of the MAPAS tool (in
                                partnership with WSP)
MASAR                         Development and roll out of MASAR
Annual Report on the RWSS  DISAPAS published an Annual Report on the RWSS
sector                          sector for 2010 and 2011
Norms for RWSS works          Revised technical norms for the RWSS sector
                              Dispersed to stakeholders
                              Used in design and implementation of new projects
                              Pending formal adoption by MINSA
Roadmap for a RWSS strategic  Bank provided a consultant to assist CIAPAS members
plan                            develop a roadmap for the development of a strategic
                                RWSS plan
Hand washing Initiative       Hand washing initiative that reached over 200,000
                                beneficiaries
                              Direct capacity building workshops and training of local
                                facilitators (community members as well as MINSA and
                                NGO local staff) to further disseminate the lessons




                                                                                            39
Sub-Annex 2.2 Summary of results from community visits during ICR fact-finding
mission

                                                                                           Time
            Level                Number                                                    spent
                      # of
            of                   of         O&M Costs        Monthly                       collecting
                      JAAR                                                   Delinquency
            Satisfa              Househol   (monthly)        Tariff                        water
                      Members
            ction                ds                                                        before the
                                                                                           Project
                                            US$15            US$2 (to                      10
Palo                  6 (3 W,    22 and 1   operator, US$4   begin                         minutes,
Seco        High      3M)        school     chlorine         charging)       NA            once a day
                                                             US$0                          15-20
                                                             (US$500 for                   minutes, 4
Bella                 6 (3W,                                 new                           times a
Vista       High      3M)        44         Not clear        connections)    NA            day
                                                                                           10
                                                                                           minutes, 3
Rio         Moder     Not        26         US$2.25                                        times a
Señales     ate       active     people     chlorine         0               NA            day
                                                             US1 base +
Polo                  At least                               .05per m3
Norte       High      2W         37         US$287.14        consumed        US$0          Almost 0
                                                             US$3 with
            Moder     6 (1W,                US$318           flush toilet,
Lola        ate       5M)        109        estimated        US$2 norm       Almost 0
Alto
Caballer    Moder                                                                          1 hour a
o (JIAR)    ate       Variety    537        Unclear          Not defined     NA            day
                                 56 (13                                                    20
Bijagual              6(5W,      connecte                                                  minutes,
no.1        High      1M)        d)         Unclear          US$2            US$0          once a day
Cabecer
a de        Moder     6 (4W,
Cochea      ate       2M)        95         US$200           US$2            Almost 0      0

Convent
illo        High      6M         64         Unclear          US$3            4 families    0
Loma                  5 (2W,
Venado      High      3M)        24         Unclear          US$1            10 families
                                                                                           20
Chiriqui              6 (1W,                                                               minutes,
sito no.1   High      5M)        40+        Unclear          US$1            US$0          once a day
                                                                                           River
                                                                                           right next
                                                                                           to
Valle                                                                                      communit
Saron       Low       6M         74         Unclear          US$0.50         63 families   y
                                                             US$4 with
Los                                         US$160 +         flush toilet,
Higos       High      5M         120        chlorine         US$3 norm       US$260        0
                                                                                           20
Los                                                                                        minutes, 4
Doming                6(4W,                                                                times a
uez         High      2M)        14         US$77.08         US$5.60         US$0          day


                                                                                                  40
                                                                                   Time
          Level               Number                                               spent
                    # of
          of                  of         O&M Costs       Monthly                   collecting
                    JAAR                                             Delinquency
          Satisfa             Househol   (monthly)       Tariff                    water
                    Members
          ction               ds                                                   before the
                                                                                   Project
Garnade                                  US$1,493 per                25%
ra        High      7M        112        year            US$1 to 2   (US$993)
Cerro               6(5W,                Approximately                             10
Pelado    High      1M)       160        US$40-45        US$1        Unclear       minutes




                                                                                          41
Sub-Annex 2.3 Photos from ICR Team’s Field Visits:
Flush toilets and latrines financed by the Project in Bocas del Toro




                                                                       42
Water tanks in Herrera and
Coclé




                             43
To the left: Poster
developed by the Los
Dominguez JAAR. Prior to
the Project, the Los
Dominguez Community had
no water system. Families
spent 20 minutes to four
hours a day collecting water
from a spring. They now
have household access to
water 24 hours a day.

Below: Community meeting
during the ICR team’s field
visit to Bocas del Toro




                               44
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The objective of the Project’s RWSS interventions was to enable participating
households and communities in rural areas to access sustainable WSS and to improve
sanitation and hygiene practices. An economic analysis was undertaken at the time of the
ICR to evaluate the impact of the Project in rural communities and compare the actual
results against foreseen results.

2.      At appraisal, benefits were calculated only for the rural water investments and were
based on the consumer surplus from the reduction in the price of the services given the
high opportunity cost of the time required to collect water from rivers and streams before
the Project and the lower price paid after the Project to the system operator to provide these
services. Health benefits were not included at appraisal.

3.      For this ICR the evaluation was carried out for the rural interventions using the
same methodology to estimate benefits; however, the evaluation included rural water
works and rural sanitation interventions. Costs and benefits were transformed to 2007
prices in order to compare them against the projection at appraisal. The same discount rate
of 12 percent was used. Health benefits were not in this evaluation.

4.      To transform costs and benefits expressed in nominal prices to 2007 prices, the
evaluation applied the annual inflation rate published by Panama’s National Institute on
Statistics and the Census (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos, INEC) for the costs
of works and activities implemented from year 2008 to 2015.

Table 1. Comparison Between Investment Costs at Appraisal and Actual Costs

  INVESTMENT (Million US$)                                    PAD                  ACTUAL
                                                                          Nominal Prices 2007 Prices
   Rural water supply, sanitation and Hygiene
        Rural works                                          11.00               23.4              18.1
        Others                                               13.10                2.3              1.78
   Total rural water and sanitation and hygiene              24.10               25.7              19.9
   Urban Water Supply and Sanitation                          9.00               0.95              0.74
   Policy Development                                         2.10               1.32              1.02
   Project management                                         4.20               6.79              5.26
   TOTAL                                                      39.40             34.76              26.9
  The costs in nominal prices were transformed to 2007 prices using annual inflation rates published by
  INEC Panama

5.     As Table 1 shows, actual costs of rural works ($23M) were twice as much as
expected at appraisal ($11M). When inflation is taken out, the real increase is 65 percent
(US$11M expected and US$18M actual value).

6.     The reasons for the cost increase can be explained by: (a) Panama City has been
experiencing a construction boom, which has pushed the prices for materials and labor up
and has driven contractors away from smaller, dispersed rural works. This aspect was
probably not appropriately factored in the cost estimate during appraisal; and (b) during


                                                                                                      45
implementation, the GoP adopted higher standards for sanitation, using complete septic
tank units instead of basic latrines, which increased costs.

7.      Even though the costs were higher and the beneficiaries lower than expected, the
cost per household was still within ranges shown in other Central American Countries.

Table 2.WSS Unit Costs in Central America28
                                   Panama PASAP       Honduras     El Salvador    Panama       Nicaragua
                                                       2011                        2011        FISE 2014
                                    PAD      Actual    prices      2011 prices     prices        prices
     SANITATION
     Cost Per unit (US$/hh)                   1,375     1,125          810         1,545         1,357
     Cost Per Capita (US$/pp)                  283       250           180          343           302
     WATER
     Cost Per unit (US$/hh)                   1,507     1,350         1,575        1,800       980 - 1,357
     Cost Per Capita (US$/pp)       200        310       300           350          400         189 - 261

8.     Actual unit costs of water supply systems were 13 percent higher than expected
when the Project was restructured. On the other hand, actual unit costs for sanitation
systems were 10 percent lower than expected.

Table 3. Cost per Capita for WSS works in rural communities
                                                                                 Restructuri
                                                                    PAD           ng Paper       Actual
     COSTS
      Cost water supply per capita (US$ per capita)                 200             275            310
      Cost sanitation per capita (US$ per capita)                   40              315            283

9.      Benefits for water supply works were estimated using the same approach as at
appraisal, that is, consumer surplus measured as the opportunity cost of time spent
collecting water. At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that the average household spent
45 minutes per day walking to collect water. The opportunity cost of time was estimated
based on the average monthly salary in agriculture/forestry (US$257) and fishery (US$284)
at the time. The analysis at appraisal estimated that 80 percent of the rural population
worked in agriculture and 20 percent in fishery. Assuming 25 working days per month, the
analysis at appraisal calculated daily average income at US$10.5. Given high rates of
unemployment and underemployment in rural areas, and the fact that children often collect
water, these income levels were adjusted by a factor of 0.5 to estimate the opportunity cost
of time in the target areas.

10.    For this evaluation, the consumer surplus was estimated for households benefited
not only with water interventions, but also with sanitation works. The interventions

28
  Information on Panama came from DISAPAS and WASH, information on Honduras and El Salvador
came from WASH, and information on Nicaragua came from the Emergency Social Investment Fund
(FISE). The actual unit costs were estimated taking into account all physical works and corresponding
beneficiaries.




                                                                                                         46
evaluated consisted of: (a) new water connections; (b) improvement of water service; (c)
new individual latrines; and (d) new septic tanks. The evaluation used the same opportunity
cost of time as at appraisal (US$ 5.25/day). The information for estimating the benefits was
based on data collected in communities benefited with the Project. The following
assumptions were used for this evaluation.

Table 4. Assumptions for estimating benefits
                                                              Before        the   After         the
                                                              interventions       interventions
  Water
  Beneficiaries of new water systems:
    Time spent collecting water/hh/day                        25 minutes          0
    Cost of boiling or buying bottle water US$/hh/day         0.61                0
    Cost of storage water US$/hh/day                          0.09                0
  Beneficiaries of rehabilitated water systems:
    Time spent collecting water/hh/day                        11 minutes          0
    Cost of boiling or buying bottle water US$/hh/day         0.25                0
    Cost of storage water US$/hh/day                          0.03                0
  Sanitation:
   Beneficiaries of new latrines
      Time spent/pp/day                                       20                  5
   Beneficiaries of new septic tanks
      Time spent/pp/day                                       20                  0

85.    Results show that despite the increase in costs and the decrease in the number of
beneficiaries, rural interventions brought important benefits to the communities. Benefits
were 17 percent higher than costs, IRR averaged 15 percent, and net benefits reached US$3
million.

86.      For water supply works, however, net benefits were just US$10 thousand, which is
significantly lower than the US$7.4 million estimated at appraisal. In addition, the actual
IRR were just 12 percent compared to 24 percent predicted. Sanitation works show better
results, generating a 20 percent return and US$3 million in net benefits.

Table 5. Results of the Economic evaluation
                                           PAD                           ACTUAL
  Rural interventions            Net Benefit                   Net Benefit
                                (Million US$)           IRR   (Million US$)            IRR
  Water                              7.40               24%        0.01                12%
  Sewerage                            n/a                          3.30                20%
  Total                                                            3.31                15%

11.     A ceiling cost of US$290 per capita was established at appraisal as the maximum
to attain economic benefits. The results of the evaluation for the ICR show than even
though actual unit costs of water intervention (US$310) were 7 percent higher than the
ceiling established for economic feasibility, the benefits from water interventions were still
a bit higher than the actual costs, obtaining a return of 12 percent.



                                                                                                47
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members




                                                                         48
                                                               Responsibility/
Names                   Title                      Unit
                                                               Specialty
Lending
Alexander E. Bakalian   Practice Manager            GWADR      Practice Manager
Caroline van den Berg   Lead Specialist             GWADR      Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist
Diomedes Berroa         Lead Specialist             OPSOR      Lead Specialist
Gunars H. Platais       Environmental Specialist    GENDR      Senior Environmental Specialist
Gustavo Saltiel         Program Manager             GWADR      Program Manager
Luis Alberto Andres     Economist                   GWADR      Lead Economist
Juan Martinez           Social Scientist            GSURR      Sr. Social Scientist
David Michaud           Water Supply Specialist     GWADR      Senior Water Supply Specialist
                        Financial        Management
Fabienne Mroczka                                    GGODR      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
                        Specialist
Oswaldo Patino          Consultant                  GTIDR      Transport Specialist
Rafael Vera             Consultant                  GWASL      Water and Sanitation Specialist
Supervision
Antonio       Rodriguez Water      and      Sanitation
                                                       GWASL   Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
Serrano                 Specialist
                        Water      and      Sanitation
Miguel Vargas-Ramirez                                  GWASL   Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
                        Specialist
Carlos Vargas Bejarano ET Consultant                   GENDR   Environmental Specialist
Luis Alberto Andres     Economist                      GWADR   Lead Economist
David Michaud           Water Supply Specialist        GWADR   Senior Water Supply Specialist
                        Financial        Management
Fabienne Mroczka                                       GGODR   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
                        Specialist
Gunars H. Platais       Environmental Specialist       GENDR   Senior Environmental Specialist
Joao Vian Lanceiro da
                        Practice Manager               GGODR   Practice Manager
Veiga
Juan Martinez           Social Scientist               GSURR   Sr. Social Scientist
Jose    Joaquin    Toro Disaster Risk Management               Sr. Disaster Risk Management
                                                       GSURR
Landivar                Specialist                             Specialist
Lilian Pena Pereira Water          and      Sanitation         Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
                                                       GWADR
Weiss                   Specialist                             (TTL)
                        Water Supply and Sanitation            Water Supply and Sanitation
Charles Delfieux                                       GWADR
                        Specialist                             Specialist
Elizabeth Eiseman       Consultant                     GWADR   Water and Sanitation Specialist
Evelyn Villatoro        Procurement Specialist         GGODR   Senior Procurement Specialist
Carmen Yee-Batista      Water      and      Sanitation         Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
                                                       GWASL
                        Specialist                             (TTL)
Blanca Lopez-Alascio Consultant                        GWADR   Water and Sanitation Specialist
Elvira Broeks           Junior Professional Associate GWADR    Junior Professional Associate
Ximena Traa-Valarezo Consultant                        GSURR   Social Specialist



                                                                                          49
Alvaro Campy Orozco                                        Water Supply     and    Sanitation
                       Consultant                GEEDR
                                                           Specialist
Lara Chinarro         Consultant                  GSURR
Camilo        Lombana Water Supply and Sanitation       Water Supply        and    Sanitation
                                                  GWADR
Cordoba               Specialist                        Specialist



      (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD (including travel and
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                             consultant costs)
     Lending
      FY 2003                                   5.10                25,598.02
      FY 2004                                   5.25                26,746.92
      FY 2005                                   0.25                   873.60
      FY 2006                                  17.52                93,896.72
      FY 2007                                  50.95               264,124.88
      FY 2008                                   0.73                 4,541.46
     Total:                                    79.80               415,781.60
     Supervision/ICR
      FY 2007                                  0                         0
      FY 2008                                 18.47                 80,665.87
      FY 2009                                 22.40                103,043.93
      FY 2010                                 32.33                131,251.81
      FY 2011                                 20.75                102,060.94
      FY 2012                                 20.39                106,697.42
      FY 2013                                 25.00                117,586.37
      FY 2014                                 20.42                123,886.60
      FY 2015                                 12.13                 62,797.69
     Total:                                  171.89                827,990.63




                                                                                   50
Annex 5. Borrower’s Report

SECTION I: General Comments to the ICR provided by the Edgardo Villalobos,
Sub-Director of DISAPAS, April 2015.

1.      Comments on this “seventh round of DISAPAS leaders” could not have been
adequate for the whole project evaluation. An objective evaluation cannot be made since
this activity has gone through eight years, three governmental administrations and seven
different directors.

2.      The World Bank has done a report that takes the project’s remarkable parts into
account in order to provide a good project outcome. Perhaps, as indicated by the document,
the results are detracted when high expectations are not met.

3.    WSS is one of those concepts, where just one mistake is enough to consider an
unacceptable success, even more when a community is being engaged. This is because, no
community with an inefficient result is indicative of a successful program.

4.     However, it shall be considered that there has been an effort made that leaded to
lessons learnt for a broader objective. WSS is a total project that should be always
implemented. Even though objectives are only partly met, in the long run, communities’
needs increase in quantity and quality. Consequently, today’s accomplishment is not
enough for the future.

5.      The report puts weakness of the sector from an institutional standpoint in
perspective. The concept that develops the existence of CIAPAS should be improved in a
substantial manner. Without a coherent institution, the development plan would just only
be partly satisfactory. It would never be totally satisfactory.

6.      The project presented some deficiencies from the execution standpoint. This is
because it is difficult to coordinate communities’ interventions with contracts’ application
and project executions’ monitoring. Unfinished projects were influenced by the
administration change. Even before this change, contractors decreased their working
capacity leaving the project with a risk of incompletion. The administration’s final decision
is to achieve the project’s full conclusion, even after the end of the program.

7.     A potential project’s failure could be observed in the future, since the post-
monitoring and maintenance verification are not guaranteed. This is with the exception of
Panama’s Government’s conviction on continuing with WSS’s programs, supporting them
with all external and internal available resources, and trying to achieve institutions’
coordination aligned with these objectives.

8.    The overall comment about the World Banks’s action is probably that the World
Bank was not aware of the institutional variables that increase programs’ risks. Given that
the WB is an institution that can observe the development of the different institutional


                                                                                          51
levels, it could have better communicated to the various institutional levels that in order to
achieve the objective, they must coordinate fully. This action or influence should be active
and pertinent. Errors due to leadership change could have had a bigger impact if this
leadership changes in a conceptual manner and in the accompanying measures, rather than
in a physical manner.

9.      To observe that borrower’s leadership should warn the WB that the project has
entered in a critical phase. This would end up diminishing the end result, without any
possibility of filling the gaps that opened up throughout the way.

10.    Regarding tools, it would be interesting to have the whole project development
under any sort of format like Gantt, thus deviations from the original plans could be
observed; specially if the project could go through different administration changes.

11.     Success, even if it is only to a certain extent, cannot be personalized, even if there
is good intention. The report indicates that certain individuals in the field compensated for
the lack of leadership consistency. However these actors/individuals cannot perform
without guidelines. Project elaboration should consider, or should have considered, that
commitments regarding the original plan were constantly under revision. In case of
substantial changes, there should be a strong commitment to the new plan, indicating that
results should still be compared with the original plan. Oftentimes, the mistake is in the
expectations, not necessarily in the execution.

12.     Another possible mistake is that inspection of staff performance was not adequately
analyzed. If the project had a design, and the building contractor already accepted this
design; changes should not have occurred unless there was a mismatch between the design
and the conditions found on the ground. Inspectors’ decisions to make changes should not
be taken lightly since these changes affect the contract and its execution. Likewise,
employers use of efficiency and effectiveness could have been more in accordance to the
project development rhythm and cost. These designs do not need to have a 24/7 inspector.
Inspections could have been done at different stages, based on expected results at certain
periods of time. If the contractor needed clarifications or to propose any further changes or
improvements, the contractor should have addressed DISAPAS’ key members, who would
decide on whether or not to make an inspection separate from the execution. To have a full
time inspector leads to the contractor to, consciously or unconsciously, indirectly delegate
the direction of work to the inspector. This should be avoided.

13.    When the project designs were changed in the field, the possibility of giving
responsibility to the project designer, who was also a contractor of the project, ended. This
should also have been analyzed in this report.

14.     These are just a few comments about the project. This new group is still evaluating
the project implementation in order to formulate a better proposition for the future. A
proposition that considers: sustainability and water quality. In this project, water quality
was left aside, since a resource evaluation considered it to not be relevant. Nowadays, water
quality is vital to consider that a good project has been implemented. Simply, to not leave



                                                                                           52
water quality, enough water supply, maintenance and sustainability behind. This would be
evidenced by strengthening capabilities at all levels, from the institutional level to the
community level. Moreover, the environmental sphere cannot be forgotten. All these
elements are crucial to avoid risks (such as leadership changes) to impact project outcomes.
And also, these elements are vital to avoid that certain personalities at the operational level
have to be the ones saving the program. The leader guides the process, and the different
project components build sustainability without needing certain individuals. Nobody is
indispensable, but everyone is necessary.



SECTION II: Specific Comments to the ICR provided by DISAPAS (already
incorporated into the main text of the ICR)

Regarding leadership changes, DISAPAS commented that there were three government
transitions.

Regarding low budgetary allocations, DISAPAS states that the Fiscal Responsibility
Law of Panama did not take into account that the agreements had a limited execution
period. Thus assigned budgets should have been executed.

Regarding finance management, DISAPAS suggests including among the said difficulties
the fact that recording delays were originally due to the lack of an operational financial
system. Information was processed through excel. At the end of 2009, the PCU started to
use a new systematic tool that eased the mentioned recording and control process.
DISAPAS states that the project did not funded any construction or office improvements.
The office construction was solely made by Integrated Committees for Rural Aqueducts
(Juntas Integradas de Acueductos Rurales –JIARs-).
Opinion from the Investment Programming Direction (Dirección de Programación de
Inversiones), Ministry of Economy and Finance.


In general terms and according to the PASAP program’s end report, we consider that, to a
great extent, the program reached the expected results. These results have been validated
with program components and have been measured with their respective indicators. Since
the beginning of the project, we observed certain barriers that impacted its speed of
development. However, as reflected by this document, the adjustments made, through
restructuring the project two times, were appropriate. These measures allowed the program
to re-orientate and modify its reach, thus guaranteeing the achievement of goals as reflected
by indicators.

Most intermediate indicators had a performance ranging from 84% to 200%. From our
perspective this is satisfactory since the project reached its fundamental objective, to
increase access to water supply services in rural areas. Increasing access to water supply
and sanitation is a mechanism that lessens the existent gap between the high-income
population and the population with a higher vulnerability rate.



                                                                                            53
The lessons learned in the end report should be used for future water and sanitation
programs, with the purpose of ensuring the programs’ development efficiency and
effectiveness in physical as well as financial terms.




                                                                                 54
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


Halcrow, Estudio Técnico – Financiero, Socioeconómico y de Identificación de proyectos
para PASAP, Manual de Technologías, Junio 2007.

PROINTEC, Consultoría Para el diseño y ejecución de actividades para la promoción de
la práctica de lavado de manos, Informe de resultados.

World Bank, Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports for the Panama Water
Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project. Washington, DC.

World Bank, “Implementation Completion Report on a Loan to the Republic of Panama
for a Rural Health Project,” Report No. 27601. Washington, DC.

World Bank, “Loan Agreement, Panama Water Supply and Sanitation in Low -Income
Communities Project,

World Bank, “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan to the Republic of Panama
for a Water Supply and Sanitation in Low-Income Communities Project,” Report No.
39865-PA, June 6, 2007, Washington, DC.




                                                                                   55
Annex 7. Map




               56
