Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FrLE   COPY
Report No. 2658c-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
March 7, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Cruzeiro
US$1.00               Cr$25.65  (May 1979)
MEASURES
1 mm     =    millimeter                =      0.04 inches
1 cm     =    centimeter                =      0.39 inches
1 m      =    meter                     =      3.28 feet
1 km     =    kilometer                 =      0.62 miles
1 13     =    liter                     =      0.26 US gallons
1 m3     =    cubic meter               =      264 US gallons
1 m /sec =    cubic meter per second           22.82 MGD = million
US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABES     =    Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineers
BNH      =    National Housing Bank
CASAN    =    Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Sta. Catarina
CORSAN   =    Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Rio Grande do Sul
CIP      =    Interministerial Price Committee
FAE      =    State Water and Sewerage Revolving Fund
FGTS     =    Employee Indemnity Fund (BNH)
FINEST   =    Credit Lines for Sanitation Sector (BNH)
FSESP    =    Special Public Health Service Foundation
EVG      =    Global Viability Studies
IDB      =    Interamerican Development Bank
IRR      =    Internal Rate of Return
ORTN     =    National Treasury Securities Index
OT       =    Technical Supervision Agency (BNH)
PAHO     =    Pan American Health Organization
PLANASA  =    National Sanitation Plan
SANEPAR  =    Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Parana
SATECIA  =    Technical Assistance Program for Institutional
Development of the State Water Companies
SFS      =    Sanitation Financing System (BNH)
S/SFS    =    Superintendency of the Sanitation Financing System (BNH)
SWC      =    State Water Company
UPC      =    Standard Capital Unit (BNH)
USAID    =    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   GENERAL ......                                                       1
II.   THE SECTOR *******e**#...............................                1
Country Background . *...... ................*                 1
Service Levels                .................................  1
Sector Development  .. ...... . ... ..... ,..O ......          2
Institutional Developments                                     4
Financial Viability and Tariffs           .....                4
Environmental Legislation .................. .                 6
Bank Participation 6        ... ..... ...                      6
Experience Under Previous Loans                                7
III.   THE BORROWER *.*.*....... ..... ..*.. *.... ......                   8
Organization  . ..     .............           ....            8
Sanitation Sector Operations ...............O..                8
Cnredit Lines ....... o .............. *- *  .......-         10
Evaluation of PLANASA Implementation  .**.....-               11
IV.   THE BENEFICIARIES .......        .. .. ...... ......                11
Background ...  ......   .  ..11
Organization and Management ........-...........              12
Commercial Operations .......... .    .......                 12
Accounting Organizations ................13
Accounting Systems ....... . .... ...  .. .... . .            13
Financial Planning ............... ....             .13
Audit ........14
V.   PROJECT AREA AND SECTOR SERVICES ......... -........                14
Location and Demography .................... o.               14
Health .......... ....1...*.*...                              15
Economic Indicators .......... . ...... o ...                 16
Water Resources .................... .           .16
Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels . .....              17
Demand Projections .............            ... .. .........  18
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Heron, Financial Analyst; A. Sanchez,
Engineer; A. Guzman, Financial Analyst; and R. Galindo, Engineer (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.            THE  PROJECT  .........................................                                                                                           20
Project    Origin    ........  .                           .   ...............................   .                                   20
Project  Objectives  .............                                             ..            ..............                          20
Project  Description  .............                                               ..           .............                         21
Engineering  .........................    ...........                                                                                23
Project  Costs   ...............                                        ...           ..... ...........                              23
Financing  ......................................                                                                                    24
Implementation  .................................                                                                                    24
Subproject  Selection  ................   .                                                     ..........                           25
Environmental  Aspects  ..4                                                ......................                                    27
Procurement                                       ....................................                                               27
Disbursement  ....................                                                .... .....                        .                27
VII.             FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  ..................................                                                                                           29
The  Borrower  ...................................                                                                                   29
Past  and  Present  Finances  ......................                                                                                 29
Financial  Projections  .....                                                .....................                                   31
The  Beneficiaries   ..............................                                                                                  33
Tariffs   ..................................... ...                                                                                  33
Revenue  Covenant  ......                                        .........................                                            35
Financial Status and Projections of
the  Beneficiaries   ............................                                                                               36
CORSAN  .............................. .......                                                               ....                    36
SANEPAR                      .....................                              ...................                                  38
CASAN  ........                         .......................   ...........                                                        39
Financing  Plan   ......... . . . . .    ..............                                            .......... .                      40
Evaluation  ......                           .............                         ..................                                41
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements  ...                                                                                    42
VIII.              ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL ANALYSIS  ........................                                                                                          42
Introduction  ...................................                                                                                    42
Internal  Rate  of  Return  .....                                                ...................                                 43
Design and  Selection  Criteria  ................                                                                 ..                 44
Population  Served  ..............................                                                                                   44
Affordability of Project Services  ...........                                                                 ...                   44
Impact  on  Poverty  Groups  .......................                                                                                 45
Project  Risks   ..................................                                                                                  45
IX.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                                                                               ..........                    45



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
List of Tables                                                    Page No.
2.1 Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and
Sewerage ....................................... ...      7
5.1  Selected Demographic Data in Project States    .........   15
5.2  Summary of SWC Service Levels in the Southern Region      17
5.3 Present and Projected Production, Sales and
Connections     .......................................  19
6.1  Summary of Project Costs ............................     23
6.2  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements      ..........       28
7.1 BNH Summary Cash Flow Statement ...........                .....  30
7.2 BNH Summary Balance Sheets .................... .          30
7.3 BNH Projected Sources and Application of Funds,
1979-81   ...... . . .. . o   . .. .o.. .       . .    32
7.4 Basic Lending Terms for the Sanitation Sector .......      33
7.5 Tariff Structures of the Project SWCs ...............      35
7.6  Project SWCs' Projected Rates of Return ....  .........   36
7.7  Selected Financial Data - CORSAN      ......... ........  37
7.8  Selected Financial Data - SANEPAR ............            ......  39
7.9  Selected Financial Data - CASAN .....  . ..............   40
7.10 Financing Plan for the Project SWCs, 1980-82 ........     41
8.1  Internal Rates of Return on the Project .   ............  43
List of Annexes
1.  SWC Organization Charts
2.  Service Levels in Southern States
3. Description of Physical Works Under the Project
4.  Suggested Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Program to S/SFS
5. Projected Annual Investments for SANEPAR, CASAN, and CORSAN, 1980-82
6. Project Cost Estimates
7.  Construction Schedule for Major Subprojects
8. Disbursement Procedures
9.  BNH Financial Statements
10.  State Water Companies' Financial Statements
11.  Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Calculations
12.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 14468 - Brazil



I



BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. GENERAL
1.01       The Government of Brazil has requested Bank financing for the
expansion and improvement of water supply and sewerage systems in the three
southern States of Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul. The water
supply and sewerage systems for which Bank financing would be provided under
the proposed loan have a total cost of US$439 million, of which the proposed
Bank loan of US$130 million would cover the foreign exchange cost. The loan
would be made to the National Housing Bank (BNH) for relending to the executing
entities which would be the state water company (SWC) for each state. The
SWCs are public agencies owned by the state governments and are responsible
for the implementation of the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA). The works
to be financed are scheduled for construction and completion in the three-year
period 1980-82.
II. THE SECTOR
Country Background
2.01       Brazil has an area of 8.5 million km2 and is divided into 22 states,
four territories, and one federal district. The population of Brazil is growing
at 2.8% p. a. and at the end of 1978 was estimated to be 116.4 million. 1/
Of this total, 73.1 million, or 62.8%, are classified as urban population, 2/
which is growing at an estimated rate of 4.0% p. a. By 1985, two-thirds
of Brazil's population is expected to be living in urban centers. While the
overall population density  is only 14 inhabitants per kmi2, the distribution
of population throughout the country is uneven. A high proportion of the
population is concentrated along the coast, in particular in the four south-
eastern states of Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Espiritu Santo,
which include the large urban centers of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo and account
for 42.0% of Brazil's population. This concentration has been partially due to
migration from the north and northeast regions.
Service Levels
2.02       At present about three-fourths of the urban population have access
to public water supply and about one-third are served by public sewerage.
There are, however, regional imbalances. Water supply service levels in the
lesser developed states in the interior and northeast are below 50% with many
1/   Source of Population Statistics:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil.
2/   Brazilian official definition of "urban population" is based on adminis-
trative status rather than population (a county seat, "sede do municipio,"
is classified as urban).



-2-
communities not supplied at all. In rural areas, there are only limited
sanitation facilities, with less than 5% of the households having water
connections. Only 2% of the rural households have septic tanks and 23%
have latrines, with three-fourths having no satisfactory excreta disposal
facilities. The urban poor group is, however, the most severely affected by
the lack of sanitation services. Many of the urban poor are recent migrants
who squat on the periphery of metropolitan areas where the population is still
to be serviced, or in centrally located but often precarious squatter settle-
ments. Statistics on mortality and morbidity rates from waterborne diseases
are not complete, but the figures available indicate one of the highest infant
mortality rates in Latin America and a high incidence of deaths due to water-
borne diseases. Infant mortality in the country reaches 70 per 1,000 live
births and life expectancy is 61 years 1/. These indices compare with about 60
per 1,000 live births for infant mortality and 60.5 years of life expectancy
for Latin America.
Sector Development
2.03      Prior to 1971, expansion of urban infrastructure, particularly water
supply and sewerage facilities, had not kept pace with Brazil's overall devel-
opment due primarily to institutional problems and availability of financing.
Responsibility for these services had been vested in the municipalities which
was the level of government which was weakest in organizational, technical and
financial capacity. Thus, in 1970, fewer than 60% of the urban population had
access to public water supply and fewer than 30% were connected to sewerage
systems. Furthermore, in the majority of Brazil's cities, the capacity of the
water supply systems was insufficient to meet demand requirements.
2.04      Initial measures to improve sector development were undertaken in
1967 when the Federal Government created the Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento
(SFS) and assigned to it responsibility for financing the sanitation sector
in the country. At the same time the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH), was
designated as the agency to operate SFS. A concerted effort began in 1971
when BNH launched PLANASA, the National Sanitation Plan for Brazil, which
encompassed the design, financing, construction and operation of water supply
and sewerage services and the training of personnel for their management.
The PLANASA objectives for 1980, as revised in 1975, are to install facilities
which can provide water services to reach 80% of the urban population 2/ in 80%
of the urban communities, and sewerage services to all main urban centers (over
50,000 inhabitants). 3/ The program is expected to cost around US$7.5 billion
1/   Source:  World Development Report, August 1978, World Bank.
2/   This percentage is not necessarily synonymous with water supply service
levels, which will depend on the actual rate of connections to the
distribution systems.
3/   BNH, under Loan 1656-BR, is carrying out studies to use alternative low-
cost technologies in those cases where conventional piped sewerage
programs are not technically appropriate or are unaffordable by the users.



-3-
in 1978 prices, representing an increase from the original estimate (about
$2.5 billion in 1971 prices) as a result of enlarged programs, initial under-
estimation of project costs, and inflation which has particularly affected the
constriLction industry.
2.05      The PLANASA program is implemented through state water companies
(SWCs) formed in each state through consolidation of existing regional or
local water companies. Each SWC is responsible for construction, operation,
and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage systems throughout the state.
Initially each SWC prepared a global viability study for the state which set
forth the sector's service level objectives, priorities, and financinv program.
On the basis of this study and a commitment by the state to provide one-half of
the financing for the sector investment program from a revolving fund (Fundo de
Aguas e Esgoto - FAE), BNH entered into "PLANASA Agreements" with all states.
These agreements incorporate the service level objectives of tihe global
viability studies and commit BNH to providing one-half of the financing for
the investment program. The PLANASA program on a state-wide basis was conceived
to alleviate regional imbalances in services through cross-subsidization and
to remedy deficiencies in qualified manpower, financial capacity, operations,
and maintenance and administration of systems, especially outside the capital
cities. It replaced a large number of municipal companies in each state with
one organization enabling economies of scale, central review of all system
designs, financial capacity, and proper operation and maintenance of municipal
systems.
2.06      Implementation of the PLANASA program has been slower than expected
due to the time taken to organize the SWCs and consolidate operations, and to
the limited capacity of some SWCs in preparing and implementing water supply and
sewerage projects.  In retrospect, the PLANASA objectives were too ambitious
considering the fragmented state of the sector in 1971. Actual performance,
however, has been satisfactory in water supply. In 1971 only 229 municipali-
ties were under PLANASA and by 1979 the number had increased to about 2,100 or
66% of the 3,172 1/ urban centers expected to be served under PLANASA by 1980.
For the most part the remaining municipalities are small communities, although
there are several major urban centers still not incorporated into PLANASA.
Out of the 160 cities and towns to be provided with sewerage services under
PLANASA, only 93 were partially served in 1978.
2.07      BNH forecasts that systems adequate to provide water supply service
to 80% of the urban population will be installed by the end of 1980, and
expects that the objective of reaching 80% of the communities would be
attained. In view of the rate of expansion during the past four years, these
expectations appear optimistic, and an additional three years may be required
to meet the water supply objectives.  Because of the magnitude of the sewerage
program required to meet the 1980 service level objectives, they will likely
not be met until the second half of the 1980 decade.
2.08      The PLANASA program has not encompassed the problems of rural basic
sanitation. There is no comprehensive program for the rural subsector, although
specific programs have been established at Federal, state, and municipal levels.
1/   Equivalent to 80% of the total municipalities in Brazil.



- 4 -
The Ministry of Health has a "Special Public Health Service Foundation" (FSESP)
which is responsible for the expansion of water supply and sewerage services
in the rural areas and has provided grants to poor municipalities for imple-
mentation of water supply and waste disposal projects. Recently, BNH has
emphasized financial assistance to the rural sector by offering funds to state
governments at rates of interest 2% p.a. below the rate charged for urban
projects. Regional development agencies have also been providing sanitation
assistance to the rural population through their integrated rural development
programs. Overall, however, the resources actually flowing to the rural
sector are small relative to needs.
Institutional Developments
2.09      In order to strengthen the execution capabilities and administrative
efficiency of the SWCs, BNH in 1974 entered into an agreement with PAHO to carry
out SATECIA 1/, a technical assistance program. The program is being carried
out by 36 specialists, including 12 foreign experts, and has improved organi-
zation and financial reporting in the SWCs. The first three-year program,
which included a diagnosis and formulation of recommendations of each of the
SWCs and produced standardized information systems, was completed in 1977, and
a follow-on two-year program is assisting the SWCs in implementing improvements.
2.10      As a complement to the technical assistance program, BNH has estab-
lished and is financing a national sanitation training program through the
Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineers (ABES). The initial objective of
the program was to train 60,000 employees from the SWCs by the end of 1980.
In January 1977 a new target of 84,000 employees was set, and to date about
one-half of the expected participants have been trained. BNH, ABES and the
SWCs periodically analyze the results of the program and introduce adjustments
to make the training meet actual needs of the sector.
2.11      For the sector overall, project design and construction capabilities
and availability of financing from BNH/FAE appear to be in balance. BNH's loan
supervision, through its regional offices and Technical Supervisory Agencies
(OTs), which covers technical, administrative, and financial aspects of the
projects and the SWCs, is working satisfactorily but requires strengthening
for expanded operations (para. 6.08). Project execution is monitored through
periodic visits to each project site by representatives of BNH and its OTs.
Financial Viability and Tariffs
2.12      One of the basic principles of the PLANASA program is that the SWCs
should be financially viable, with revenues sufficient to cover operating
and maintenance costs and debt service payments. For the sector generally and
most SWCs individually, this requirement has not been met. The principal
reason for this is the failure of tariffs, which until 1978 were regulated by
both the state and Federal governments, to keep pace with inflation and
1/   SATECIA:  Programa de Assistencia Technica para o Desenvolvimento
Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Saneamento.



increases in  0eK-:--                                                a result, some
SWCs have been                                                         --' .'..  ytpu  i  ' epenses,
through loans from Bir j/A,  an   t     oovernnt equity contributions.
2.13      On May K; :                    >.   Law (NKo  (528) for the water
supply and sewerage sector                 b prove.f hy the Brazilian Congress.  The
objectives of th'e -Laxt a     cF cc    Ifi  to -coss of service; (b) to
keep water supply and s e: cu'v sr              d a  orodable to the low-income popu5.ation
by establishing a minimum aonsurion tariff related to income level 1/; and
(c) to ensure the financisl vtabilil4ty of the SWCs by permitting tariff levels
which would produce a rat- of           f-p to 12% on operating investments 2/.
In addition, the Law requlres        fr L  i-S to be undertaken in accordance
with guidelines to be set by, t1he Mi.i'stry of the Interior,
2.14      Implementing regulations of the Tariff Law are contained in Decree
No. 82587 of November 6, 19783 The regulatiorns set forth the procedure
for and frequency of tariff adiustments and spell out the criteria to be
used in the design of tariff structures.  The regulations establish 1983 as
the year for SWCs to attain the position where revenues cover operating and
maintenance expense aLd depreciation, and Drovide a rate of return on operating
investments, after covering these ex-penses, which will produce sufficient cash
flow to cover debt service. This objective is to be reached by a gradual
program of tariff adjustments, although interim objectives are not specified.
Additional main features of che Decree are:
(a)  SWCs were to submit to BNE by March 1979 investment programs and
financial plans for the 1979-83 period, including tariff proposals,
to enable the financial objectives bf the Law and Decree to be
attained in 1%83- These submissions are to be revised annually;
(b)  BNH is responsible for reviewing the SWCs' t,ariff proposals which do
not technically have to be approved by state governments.  If BNH is
in agreement with a -oroposal, i't is forwarded to the Interministerial
Price Committee   TPIP a-/;h a recommendation for approval; otherwise
the proposal will be returned to the SWC for revision.  BNH is also
responsible for moritoring the financial performance of the SWCs in
relation to the p-Lotlons:
(c)  responsib 41iV for finala tarfl.  app-.oval rests with the CIP, and
a'uthio-Ln' Z84C4--  !_- etoI niO-  otl er    :rf-4£f adjustments is made by the
Ministry orF t e T  e- :- 
(d)  consumers are to  -- cl- s- cec Into 'four basic categories:
residential-, inozccccl. ormar,   a-nd Dublic;
1/   Tne monthly chargeo    :   , nlxum isc ck of water consumption (normally
10-15  i3) is not to e.ceei 357 cf ORTN (National Treasury Securities
Index) and the omni   ce rot .a:er and sewerage must not exceed 50%
of one CRTN (parza 3. C>
2/   Defined as net fi-xad  iS-t 4        accoo, excluding those financed by
grants, a:` roffi,;  oaIccl  -irhl i  t       ntions)



-6-
(e) tariffs are to be progressive according to volumes consumed to allow for
cross-subsidization between high and low-income consumers; and
(f) objectives for metered connections are to be established and all water
production is to metered.
2.15      BNH has prepared guidelines for the submission of the SWC investment and
financial programs and has reviewed the initial submissions and returned them for
revisions. As an interim measure, BNH recommended, and CIP approved, a 36% tariff
increase effective January 1, 1979, for all SWCs but CORSAN (Rio Grande do Sul)
which received a 20% increase, and subsequent tariff adjustments were to be made
after the revised programs were submitted and approved.  An additional increase of
22% was granted to SABESP (Sao Paulo) in August 1979, but requests by other SWCs
were not acted upon. In November 1979, BNH recommended an average 55% tariff
increase to CIP (for application in 1980). The proposed 55% increase would not
have covered the cash requirements of all SWCs. CIP did not act on the proposal,
but instead, pending further modifications to the investment and financial programs,
approved a 35% increase for most SWCs to be effective December 1, 1979.  CIP
proposes to study each company's needs and to make tariff adjustments semi-annually
(para. 7.14).
Environmental Legislation
2.16      The Federal and state authorities in charge of environmental pollu-
tion control regulate the permissible pollution loads to be discharged into
the water courses. In October 1973, the Federal Government created the
Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente in the Ministry of Interior to monitor
changes in the environment, establish air and water quality standards, and
coordinate all Federal pollution control programs. Several laws and decrees
were issued thereafter providing regulations for the enforcement of pollution
control. In January 1976, the Government issued a regulation to classify
inland water resources according to their uses, and limit their contamination
by setting up maximum permissible physical, chemical, and biological pollutants'
concentrations.
2.17      The implementation of the pollution control laws will demand large
investments, as well as substantial operational and maintenance expenditures
for sewage disposal. For those cities needing sewage treatment, the total
costs of the services could be so high that tariffs cannot be increased to
levels sufficient to recover these costs, and capital contributions from the
state and/or the Federal Government might be required in addition to BNH and
FAE debt financing. Sewage tariffs will have to be structured so as to
achieve, where appropriate, a cross-subsidization among the consumers, in
particular the industrial ones, to make systems financially viable. Studies
to establish appropriate tariff structures and levels for sewage collection
and treatment are to be completed by mid-1980 under a loan covenant in the
Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project (Ln. 1525-BR).
Terms of reference for these studies have been reviewed by the Bank, and
consultants have been recruited.
Bank Participation
2.18      The Bank has been assisting Brazil since 1971 in the implementation
of PLANASA through the financing of six projects. Six loans totalling
US$320 million have been extended for water supply and sewerage as indicated
in the following table:



-7-
Table 2.1: BANK LTOANS TO BRAZIL FOR W4ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Year    Loan No.      Amount              Borrower                   Purpose
(US$ million)
1971    757-BR         22.0        City Water Company   Sao Paulo water distribut-.i
and storage
1971    758-BR         12.0 a!    City Water Company   Sao Paulo sewage collectiso
and disposal
1974    1009-BR        36.0        BNH                    Water supply and seweica2a
in the state of Mrnas GeraiJ
1976    1309-BR        40.0        BNH                    Water supply and sewerage
in the state of il4inas G@crai.
1978    1525-BR       110.0        BNH                    Sewage collectioc and disposs:
in the city of Sao Pau1lo
1979    1656-BR       100.0        BNH                    Water supply and sewerage
in the states of Bahia, Cears.
Total             320.0                              and Pernambuco
a/   Original loan amount was US$15.0 million.
2.19      Total actual and planned Bank assistance to the water supply and
sewerage sector is estimated to account for about 6% of sector investment in
the period 1971-82. The only other external lenders to the sector since
1970 have been USAID, which in 1971 extended a loan to BNH (US$25.0 million)
for urban sanitation, and IDB, which in 1971 provided a loan to BNE (US$30 0
million) for water and sewerage projects throughout Brazil.
Experience Under Previous Loans
2.20      Two Bank loans to Sao Paulo for water supply and sewerage (757 and
758-BR) were completed after three-year delays. The delays were caused by
initial failure of the State of Sao Paulo to supply the necessary funds to
complete financing, substantial technical revision of the project, and reranC-
ization of the executing agencies. Service levels exceeded expectations and
the Borrower substantially improved its overall operations. The conclusior:i
reached in the Project Performance Audit Report are:  the projects achieved .
main objectives; delays caused by lack of adequate and timely state goverinment
financing indicates the need for appropriate commitments from the state; and the
existence of three entities 1/ in the sector without a coordinating body is not
conducive to efficient and effective operation of the sector. The first and
second Minas Gerais Loans (1009 and 1309-BR) are fully committed:  Loan 10Q9BR
is almost fully disbursed and Loan 1309-BR is about 43% disbursed. The BannT
has participated in 260 subprojects under Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR. Completi-on
1/ One for water production, one for water distribution and sewage collection..
and one for sewage disposition.



reports have been received by the Bank for all but two of the subprojects in
Loan 1009-BR and these two are almost complete. Implementation is underway on
all projects approved under Loan 1309-BR and about 40, principally small communities,
are complete. The third Sao Paulo Loan (1525-BR) became effective in August 1978
and the Northeast States Loan (1656-BR) became effective in July 1979. In Minas
Gerais and Sao Paulo project progress is satisfactory and the institutions are
performing efficiently. For the Northeast States Loan, the first subprojects for
the capital cities have been approved and construction is underway.  The water
utility in Sao Paulo complied with the loan revenue covenant in 1978, but in
Minas Gerais it was not met. None of the SWCs supported by Bank lending through
1979 are expected to meet the Bank loan revenue covenants or rate-of-return
covenants in 1979 because of lack of adequate tariffs (para. 2.15). The Government
has indicated that it wishes to maintain flexibility in granting tariff increases
during 1980 in order to conform to its overall anti-inflation program. The
specific tariff increases to be granted to SWCs benefitting from previous Bank
loans are under review. The position of the Southern States SWCs is discussed in
para. 7.14.
III. THE BORROWER
Organization
3.01      The Borrower for the proposed loan will be the Banco Nacional da
Habitacao which has also been the Borrower for the last four loans in the
water supply and sewerage sector. BNH was established by Federal Law in
August 1964, and since 1967 has reported to the Ministry of the Interior.  It
has legal personality, is tax exempt and is administratively and financially
independent of the Ministry. Its major activities have been to finance
low-cost housing programs, urban development and sanitation.
3.02      BNH is administered by a Board of Directors (Conselho de Adminis-
tracao) and an Executive Committee (Diretoria). The Board consists of the
seven directors of the Executive Committee and nine counselors. The Executive
Committee is composed of the President of the Board and six directors, all
appointed by the President of the country with the approval of the Federal
Senate. New top management assumed office in March 1979 and is actively
pursuing a program of simplifying operations and improving efficiency.
BNH's operations are the direct responsibility of the President and department
heads, but decisions concerning routine matters have been delegated to Regional
Credit Committees.
Sanitation Sector Operations
3.03      Since September 1967, BNH has had a department, the "Superintendencia
do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento" (S/SFS), which is responsible for water
and sewerage activities. The S/SFS consists of three divisions as indicated
in the organization chart (3.1). The Analysis and Programming Advisor is
responsible for the review and approval of each SWC's water supply and sewerage
investment program. Projects included in the investment programs are normally
prepared by local consultants retained by the SWCs, or sometimes by SWC staff.



CHART 3.1
BRAZIL-SOUTEERN STATES WATER SU'PPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
S/SFS ORGANIZATION CHART DECEMMER 1978
Director
linnce                Clntol               Technicl                Prog      &        Services
Deputy                                                                       Cdministrative                                            c
Superintendent                                                      e                       DeDivision am
_    Administrative   _   _W Secretaries 26
Se rvice. I
Analysis &                                                           TerhncialFiarAdse
Adviser                                                            n_o Av
|Department             Department   |            C|oD t   t | | Department                  D  epartment   |       InsDPecti|o| of SFS Resources || Department   || Departmen                           |
World Bank -20561



- o -
The tec ..-nical aspects and costs of the projects are then reviewed by Technical
Super-viisory Agencies (OTs), which are specialized agencies (or consultants)
retained by BNH, and if acceptable are forwarded to BNH Headquarters by the
regional office for final evaluation and approval. The Control Advisor
supervises the OTs which in addition to reviewing project design, assist in
supervision of construction. This Division also provides SWCs with technical
consulting services when needed. The Finance Advisor authorizes disbursements
from BNH and FAE and monitors the financial performance of the SWCs.
3.04      Project technical review and project supervision are carried out
by 11 BNH regional offices established in December 1976, each of which is
responsible for SWC programs in one or more states. These offices are a
microcosm of the S/SFS Department in BNH Headquarters and operate under
well-defined guidelines. The functions of the offices include the control
of loan agreements between BNH and the SWCs, control of disbursements,
updating of the physical and disbursement schedules on projects, monitoring
the performance of the FAEs and the OTs, and supervision of the SWCs'
operations, technical assistance, and training programs. This decentrali-
zation is working satisfactorily.
Credit Lines
3.05      BNH has established a basic line of credit for the water supply and
sewerage sector. Through this line BNH lends to the SWCs (through financial
agents which are the state banks) 50% of project costs for medium and large-
size cities 1/. For purposes of determining the loan amount for all BNH credit
lines, project costs include project related expenses which are capitalized,
interest during construction, and other financing charges. A second line of
credit, known as FINEST I 2/, has been created to assist the states to meet
their obligations to finance 50% of the project costs. Under this line, loans
are made directly to the states (through financial agents) and channeled to
SWCs as conventional FAE loans (para 3.06). Two additional credit lines with
the objective of promoting investments in small communities, FINEST II and
FINEST III, are also available for direct lending to state governments (through
the financial agents). Under FINEST II, BNH finances 100% of subproject costs
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the state's budgeted allocation for
small communities, and, the SWCs receive 70% of the funds from the state as
equity and 30% as an FAE loan. Under FINEST III, BNH finances 50% of costs of
subprojects for small communities, with the state financing the other half of
costs from its own resources. Loans granted to the states under the FINEST
Program are repaid to BNH out of the proceeds of general tax revenues.
Principal and interest payments on all BNH loans to the SWCs are guaranteed by
the state government.
1/   Medium-size and large cities are those over 5,000 people.  Small-size
villages are those with less than 5,000 inhabitants according to 1970
census figures.
2/   Subprograma de Emprestimo Suplementar.



- 11 -
3.06      State government funds for financing 50% of subproject costs are
deposited in the FAEs for lending to the SWCs. The FAE is a revolving fund
continually replenished by appropriations from the state government, normally
equivalent to 5% of the state tax revenues, and by the debt service payments
of the SWCs. If 5% of the state tax revenues is not sufficient to finance 50%
of the subproject costs, the state can borrow the balance from BNH under the
FINEST I line of credit.
3.07      Interest rates on BNH's basic loans and loans under FINEST I for
urban water supply and sewerage projects vary from 2% to 7% p.a. depending
upon the per capita tax revenue levels in the state. Under FINEST II and III
the interest rate is 2.0% p.a. below the normal rate of interest. The interest
rates on FAE loans range from 2% to 6% p.a., with the lowest rate being
applicable to sewerage projects. Maturities on both BNH and FAE loans are
normally 18 years for water supply projects, after a one to three-year grace
period on principal repayment,and 30 years for sewerage projects after a one
to four-and-one-half year grace period. Interest and principal on loans are
denominated in indexed standard capital units (UPCs) 1/.
Evaluation of PLANASA Implementation
3.08      Up to 1975, the PLANASA program did not develop as expected, due
to weak organization and management in many of the SWCs, underestimated
project costs, poor engineering studies, overoptimistic scheduling, and a
shortage of materials and equipment. In addition, S/SFS activities were
centralized at BNH Headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, where incomplete information
was received from the SWCs, further delaying project review and approval by
overloaded staff. In early 1976, BNH issued new regulations decentralizing
PLANASA and delegating more responsibility and authority to the regional offices
in order to speed up implementation. Under the new tariff regulations, BNH
requires the SWCs to prepare integrated investment programs and financing plans
and the quality of the planning and investment programming has greatly improved.
Also, BNH's project selection, approval and disbursement procedures, and loan
supervision procedures are improving and provision is made in the loan for
technical assistance for further improvement (para. 6.08).
IV. THE BENEFICIARIES
Background
4.01      The three beneficiaries and executing agencies for the project will
be Companhia de Saneamento do Parana (SANEPAR), Companhia Catarinense de
Aguas e Saneamento (CASAN), and Companhia Rio Grandense de Saneamento (CORSAN),
all located in the state capitals. The respective states of Parana, Sta. Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul have complied with S/SFS requirements and have signed
PLANASA agreements setting forth service level objectives and state financial
participation which empower BNH to supervise all investment programs financed by
BNH. The three SWCs have completed global viability studies (EVGs) and have
ongoing construction programs financed by BNH, FAEs, and the states.
1/   Unidade Padrao de Capital - An accounting unit which is revalued quarterly
using the National Treasury Securities Index (ORTN).



- 12 -
Organization and Management
4.02      All SWCs are owned by their respective state governments.  Each has
a board of directors appointed by the state governor for a period of four
years. Subsequent to changes in state governments in March 1979, new presidents
and boards of directors were appointed for the project SWCs. Apart from the
President, who is the Chief Executive Officer, each director is the working
head of one of the functional departments.
4.03      Organizational structures have evolved with the assistance of
SATECIA and have departments for technical operations, administration, and
finance and accounting (Organization Charts, Annex 1).  These organizational
structures are considered appropriate for the activities undertaken. The
management of all three SWCs is considered to be satisfactory, although
consultant services for improvement of technical and financial operations are
included in the project (para. 6.07).
4.04      The SWCs and the state governments establish the priorities for
the extension of water supply and sewerage services in the state based on
assessed needs in the various communities. Engineering studies and design
as well as supervision of works are executed mainly through local consultants,
which are satisfactory. The SWCs' engineering units and the OTs review
designs and monitor construction. Construction activities are carried out
by local contractors, which generally are experienced and capable. Projects
have normally been implemented on schedule, and project programming and
control procedures are now being strengthened to handle the increased volume
of construction in the period 1980-82. Technical operations are wholly
satisfactory, especially when considering the difficulties of operating with a
wide geographic dispersion of a number of small municipalities. The training
programs of the SWCs are appropriate to requirements.
Commercial Operations
4.05      Commercial operations in SANEPAR and CASAN are centralized respec-
tively under the Finance Director and Administrative Director, and CORSAN
is now consolidating commercial operations under the Finance Director. This
unified operation is appropriate, and in all three SWCs commercial operations
are satisfactorily managed. In all three states, commercial operations are
complicated by the fact that the companies serve a large number of municipali-
ties which are scattered over a wide geographic area. The municipalities are
furthermore predominantly small with about 85% of the communities having fewer
than 4,000 water house connections and 52% fewer than 1,000 connections.
Residential consumers account for over 90% of tstal connections and monthly
volumes of water sold average a rather low 25 m  per connection.
4.06      SANEPAR's level of water consumption metering is 98%, CASAN's 71%
and CORSAN's 57%. CORSAN has a program underway to increase its metering level
to 80%, which studies have determined is the optimum economic percentage. These
levels are considered satisfactory since the bulk of unmetered customers are
estimated to consume volumes close to or below the minimum consumption block.
However, the target level will be periodically reviewed in line with evolving
tariffs and consumptions. Meter maintenance is satisfactory for SANEPAR and



- 13 -
CORSAN, but only 70% of CASAN's meters are functioning and meter repair
facilities are now being improved to remedy the situation. CASAN's progress
in increasing the percentage of functioning meters will be monitored during
supervision.
4.07      Meters are read monthly on a continuous basis by zones, and consumers
are billed within 20 to 30 days of the reading. In SANEPAR, the monthly state-
ments for all communities are prepared by a centralized computer, and in CASAN,
only a few communities remain to be placed in the computer. In CORSAN, however,
bills for most of the smaller municipalities are now prepared manually. By earl
1980, the company expects to have all billings computerized. Payments of accoun
are made through local banks or at SWC offices, and all collections are remitted
to headquarters. Collections are efficient as evidenced by the fact that in
CORSAN and SANEPAR outstanding accounts average two months' billing and in CASAN
two-and-one-half months' billings. CASAN expects to improve its collection
efficiency after placing accounts receivable accounting on the computer in 1980.
Accounting Organizations
4.08      All three SWCs have similar organizational structures for the
accounting and finance functions. The departments are headed by directors of
the SWCs and are divided into two functional divisions, one for accounting and
one for finance. In the case of SANEPAR there is also a division for commer-
cial operations and it is expected that CASAN will also soon have its commercial
operations, which are now carried out by the Administration Department, under
the finance director. The accounting divisions are responsible for general
accounting, cost accounting, and budget and expense control, and the finance
divisions for financial planning, treasury, and control of borrowings. These
organization structures are considered appropriate, and managers and staff are
considered capable of satisfactorily implementing the accounting and finance
functions in the project SWCs. CASAN, however, will require technical assis-
tance to assist in computerizing accounting activities and in improving
financial planning and reporting (para 6.07).
Accounting Systems
4.09      Accounting functions are centralized in the three SWCs' headquarters
located in the capital cities. All SWCs are utilizing BNH's uniform system of
accounts prepared in January 1976 by S/SFS with the assistance of SATECIA.
CORSAN and SANEPAR have the bulk of their accounting computerized while CASAN
is still programming and expects to be making effective use of the computer
in 1980. The introduction of the uniform system of accounts and the use of
the computer provides timely financial reports for management review and will
permit BNH to consolidate the SWCs' financial statistics and to evaluate and
compare SWCs' financial performance on a consistent basis. At present it does
not, however, provide for an appropriate statement of sources and applications
of cash. Under a covenant in Loan 1656-BR, BNH will revise the uniform account-
ing manuals to include cash flow statements.
Financial Planning
4.10      All SWCs have prepared investment programs and operating and finan-
cial projections for the years 1979-83 inclusive in compliance with BNH's



-- 14 -
1978 -u1a 8>i&r     ie s-ubmissions of the SWCs in early 1979 required modifi-
cations requested by BNH, and the revised programs are now consistent with
SWC exec`ln,g  capabilities, BNH/FAE fund availability, and the National Tariff
Law and Regulations.  These programs will be revised annually for submission
to BNH and the Bank.
Audit
4.11      Both SANEPAR and CASAN have internal auditors which are functioning
satisfactorily, and CORSAN has a unit which performs part of the functions of
an internal audit office. CORSAN agreed to establish and maintain an adequately
staffed and properly functioning internal audit office by December 31, 1981.
4.12      All SWCs retain external independent private auditors 1/.  SANEPAR's
audit is satisfactory, but those of CASAN and CORSAN are concerned primarily
with the presentational aspects of the financial statements. The audits by
SWCs' lenders, BNH and the FAEs, and the Federal and state governments, are
more comprehensive, but are designed primarily to ensure that Federal and
state loans to the SWCs are properly disbursed and accounted for. Assurances
were obtained from the SWCs that their accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year, starting with fiscal year 1979, will be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that by April 30 of each subsequent year certified
copies of the audited financial statements and audit report will be submitted
to the Bank. The SWCs also agreed to have the report of the independent
auditor include a statement on compliance with the Bank loan covenants and Bank
procurement procedures.
4.13      In addition to its audit, BNH provides a continuing control over
disbursements on projects. At the time a loan contract is signed with
BNHI/FAE, the SWC presents a monthly disbursement schedule against which
actual disbursements are compared by the BNH regional office. When actual
disbursements are 20% below projections, BNH and FAE disbursements are
suspended until the SWC provides a satisfactory explanation. BNH technical
staff, together with its OT staff, visit project sites quarterly on the average
to verify the extent to which construction is completed. The BNH regional
offices supervising the three project SWCs are functioning satisfactorily.
V.   PROJECT AREA AND SECTOR SERVICES
Location and Demography
5.01      The project area consists of the three southernmost states of
Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul, called the South Region
(Map No. 14468).  The region borders Paraguay and Argentina to the west and
Uruguay to the south. The area of the three states (562,000 km2) represents
1/   SANEPAR and CASAN Boucinhas, Campos and Claro S/C Ltda., CORSAN Prof.
Dr. Holy Ravanello, Auditoria e Sistemas.



- 15 -
6.6% of Brazil's surface. Its climate is temperate with mild summers and
winters and temperatures varying from a monthly average of 3 0C to 220C during
the year. These three states have a total population estimated at the end of
1978 of 21.1 million, or about 18% of the country's total. Urban population
represents 48% of the region's total and is growing at an overall 4.1% p.a.
compared to 2.3% for the rural population and 3.1% for the total population in
the region. These figures show the fast urbanization process taking place in
the region, and it is expected that by the end of the next decade more than
60% of the population will be living in urban areas. The population density
averages 38 inhabitants per km2 compared to 14 for Brazil. Table 5.1 shows selected
demographic data for the region.
Table 5.1: SELECTED DEMOGRAPHIC DATA IN THE PROJECT STATES
(1978 Estimates)
Rio Grande
Description                           Parana       Sta. Catarina    do Sul         Total
Urban Population (000)                3,680          1,800          4,715         10,195
x                    39             49             59             48
Rural Population (000)                5,831          1,861          3,257         10,949
%                    61             51             41             52
Total Population (000)                9,511          3,661          7,972         21,144
Area (000 km2)                          199             95            268            562
Density (persons/km2)                    48             38             30             38
Overall Annual Growth Rate (% p.a.)       4.0            3.0            2.3            3.1
Urban Annual Growth Rate (% p.a.)         4.7            4.5            3.5            4.1
Rural Annual Growth Rate (% p.a.)         3.6            1.6            0.5            2.3
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brazil.
Health
5.02      Health statistics indicate that infant mortality per thousand live-born
infants in 1975 was 35 for Parana, 58 for Santa Catarina, and 42 for Rio Grande
do Sul 1/. Infant mortality is substantially higher in the respective capitals,
reaching 69 in Curitiba (Parana), 81 in Florianopolis (Santa Catarina), and
47 in Porto Alegre (Rio Grande do Sul). These figures compare with 70 deaths
per 1,000 live births for the country and with 60 for Latin America overall.
Enteritis and diarrheal diseases as causes of infant deaths ranked first in
Santa Catarina and second in Parana and Rio Grande do Sul. These diseases are
closely associated with poor sanitation conditions and especially with unsafe
provision of water and waste disposal practices.
1/   States' Secretaries of Health, 1978.



- 16 -
Economic Indicators
5.03      The South Region can be considered as one of middle income in regard
to Brazil. Its participation in total national income is around 18%, or the
same proportion as its population is of the total. Major economic activi-
ties are agriculture and cattle raising. The region contributes 42% of
Brazil's meat exports and produces 50% of the coffee, 99% of the wheat and
93% of the soybeans. It accounts for 30% of Brazil's total exports. The
industrial sector, which has been developing rapidly during the last decade, is
mainly based on the processing of agricultural products and production of
inputs for agriculture and cattle raising. Recently, petrochemical and coal
mining industries have become an important part of the region's industrial
development.
5.04      There is no current information on income distribution and poverty
levels in the South Region. However, the mission estimates that in Rio Grande
do Sul the percentage of the urban population living in relative poverty 1/ is
61%, in Parana 60%, and in Sta. Catarina 54%.
Water Resources
5.05      Surface and groundwater resources are relatively abundant in the
South Region. Rainfall is well distributed over the year with average preci-
pitation varying from 1,200 mm on the coast to 2,000 mm in the interior of
the states, with orographical features having an important effect on rainfall
patterns. There are no distinct dry or rainy seasons although there are years
when the total rainfall is double the average and others when it is only half.
Droughts occur in the southwest areas every six to seven years. These are
aggravated during the summer due to high temperatures (near 25 C) and high
evaporation. Runoff coefficients vary from 45% in the interior to around 20%
in the coastal plains. Because of the orography, river basins are generally
small resulting in low to moderate flows which cannot take heavy industrial
or domestic waste loads without serious deleterious effects. This problem is
especially serious when cities along the river use it for drinking water.
5.06      Groundwater is generally of good quality throughout the area and
can be obtained by welAs varying from 40 m to 150 m in depth.  Existing wells
yield between 25-100 m /hr(7-28 1/sec) depending on their location. These
yields are reduced to 20% or 30% during droughts. Generally speaking, there
is enough water available in the South Region for an adequate domestic and
industrial supply for at least the next 20 years.
1/   Defined as families with monthly earnings of three minimum salaries or
less (equivalent to US$257).



- 17 -
Water SuRply and Sewerage Service Levels
5.07      The average water service level for the South Region's urban popula-
tion served by the project SWCs in mid-1979 was 75% which was in line with the
national average. None of the SWCs has achieved the 1980 PLANASA service level
objective of 80% for water supply, but SANEPAR (Parana) and CORSAN (Rio Grande
do Sul) should come close to reaching the objective. Only 10% of the urban
population in the region served by the project SWCs are connected to sewerage
networks. In the few cities served with sewerage in Parana and Rio Grande do
Sul, service levels are very low, and sewerage services are almost nonexistent
in Santa Catarina. Table 5.2 below indicates the mid-1979 service levels for
the project SWCs and the overall state urban service levels in 1978.
Table 5.2: SUMKARY OF SWC SERVICE LEVELS IN THE SOUTH REGION
(Mid-1979)
CORSAN
SANEPAR        CASAN     (Rio Grande
(Parana) (Sta. Catarina)   do Sul)        Region
Percentage of urban
population served by SWC:
Water                           79           65             75           75
Sewerage                        17            3              6          10
Percentage of SWC urban
water connections served
with sewerage                     21            5              8           13
Percentage of total state
urban population served a/:
Water                           65           57            81           71
Sewerage                        18            4             20          16
a/   Estimate for 1978.  Includes services of the SWCs and independent munici-
pal systems.
5.08      Of note in the above data is the fact that only 13% of the urban
population served with water are connected to public sewerage systems. The
rest are relying on individual septic tanks, pit-hole latrines, or connections
to public drainage systems. In many areas individual solutions are no longer
appropriate because of increased water consumption combined with impervious
soils and high-water tables. In low-income neighborhoods sewage is often
dumped on the streets or in sidewalk drainage ditches causing serious danger
to public health.



- 18 -
51>e1x> ;caadditional details on 1978 service levels for the
three proje t States. lt can be seen that not all the urban communities are
under the SW%Cs' jurisdiction, with some being operated by the municipalities
themselves and others by agencies involved in sector activities, in particular
FSESP.  In general, these communities have systems in satisfactory working
condition and the municipalities partially use revenues from service sales for
general local investment purposes. The largest independent water authority is
Departamento Municipal de Aguas y Esgoto in Porto Alegre, the capital of Rio
Grande do Sul 1/. It is expected, however, that many of the independent
systems will be progressively incorporated into PLANASA in the coming years
when major expansions will be necessary to meet increasing demands.
Demand Projections
5.10      Table 5.3 presents expected water production and sales through 1983
as well as expected sewerage connections. Actual figures for 1978 are also
included for comparison. The estimates were based on:
(a) future availability of services resulting from the investment
programs coupled with the distribution network extentions and
installation of house connections contemplated in these programs;
(b) incorporation of new systems into PLANASA and the SWCs; and
(c) constant per capita consumption at estimated current levels.
5.11      The assumption of constant per capita consumption is based on the
fact that several factors affecting per capita demand, considered on a state-
wide basis, tend to offset each other, namely:  (a) increased metering levels;
(b) provision of sewerage to new areas; (c) improvement in system operating
conditions and elimination of rationing; (d) implementation of progressive
tariffs; (e) extension of services to low-consumption areas; and (f) increased
industrial consumption. Due to the lack of production metering in the three
companies, the mission estimated unaccounted-for water on the basis of produc-
tion capacity, percentage of capacity used, and other operational data. Pro-
duction metering is contemplated under the project (para. 6.06). The mission
projected conservative annual reductions in unaccounted-for water that would
result from improved metering and more efficient operations. Actual water
demand for purposes of designing individual subprojects is analyzed on the
basis of local conditions and information gathered for each subproject.
1!   CORSAN is the only one of 23 SWCs which does not serve the state capital.



- 19 -
TABLE 5.3 - PRESENT AND PROJECTED PRODUCTION, SALES AND CONNECTIONS
1978 - 1983 a/
DESCRIPTION                          1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
SANEPAR
Water
Water Production (million/m3)        173.8    189.9    204.6    223.4    230.3    238.1
Water Sales (million/m3)             121.6    136.8    147.3    160.8    170.5    180.9
Unaccounted-for water (%)             30        28        28        28        26        24
Number of connections (000)          380       426       459       501       531      562
Urban population served (000)    2204         2470      2754      3006     3186      3372
% of urban population served b/    75           79        83        85        85       85
Sewerage
Number of connections (000)           80        91       100       112      151       210
Population served (000)              464       528      600       672       906      1260
% of urban population served b/    16           17        18       19        24        32
CASAN
Water
Water Production (million/m3)         68.0      79.6     92.5    101.5    108.2    114.2
Water Sales (million/m3)              44.8      52.5     61.0      69.0      75.7      82.2
Unaccounted-for water (%)             34       34        34        32        30        28
Number of connections (000)         150       175       204       230       253       274
Urban population served (000)       912      1050      1221      1380      1915      1644
% of urban population served b/    60          65        71        76        79        81
Sewerage
Number of connections (000)            8        8        14        26        39        50
Population served (000)              48        50        84       153       231       297
% of urban population served b/       3         3         5         8        12        15
CORSAN
Water
Water Production (million/m3)       172.1    174.2    188.3    201.8    213.6    223.1
Water sales (million/m3)            137.3    139.3    150.7    161.5    170.9    178.5
Unaccounted-for water (%)            20        20        20        20        20        20
Number of connections (000)         465       516       558       598       633      661
Urban population served (000)   2325         2580      2790     2990      3165      3305
% of urban population served b/   71           75        78        80        81        81
Sewerage
Number of connections                43        44        45        55        73       92
Population served (000)             215       220       225      273       363       460
% of urban population served b/    6            6         6         7         9       11
a/  Number of connections and population served by the SWC are the average for the
year.
bh Percentages of population served each year refer to the population served by the
SWC as a percentage of the urban population in the areas served by the SWC.



- 20 -
VI. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
6.01      In June 1978 the Brazilian Government and the Bank held discussions
on the continuation of Bank support to PLANASA through a new operation in
the South Region of Brazil. The priority given to assistance in this region
is based on:
(a) the high organizational strength of the three SWCs;
(b) the substantial investment programs of the SWCs for the 1980-82
period;
(c) the absorptive capacity of these companies; and
(d) the large amount of financial resources required to meet growing
water supply and sewerage needs in the area.
Since the initial discussions, three Bank missions have visited Brazil to
assist BNH and the SWCs in the preparation of this project. Staff from PAHO's
Administered Technical Assistance Program (SATECIA) also assisted in project
preparation.
6.02      In accordance with the new tariff legislation (para. 2.13), the SWCs
prepare and submit to BNH for approval five-year investment programs and
financing plans which have to be updated annually (Global Viability Studies -
Estudos de Viabilidade Global - EVGs). The financing plans must include the
provision for increasing tariffs to achieve by 1983 the financial viability
required by the Tariff Law and Regulations. BNH finances only individual
subprojects included in previously approved EVGs. The initial EVG prepared in
late 1978 proposed investments well in excess of BNH's planned allocations of
resources to the sector for the region. During project preparation the invest-
ments were reduced to keep them in line with the availability of financial
resources, the executing capability of the SWCs, the availability of detailed
engineering, and the supply of materials and equipment for the works. The
revised investment programs have now been approved by BNH.
Project Objectives
6.03      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to improve the environmental and health conditions of the population
in the project area. It is estimated that the project will provide
safe water to an additional 1.8 million people and sewerage to an
additional 0.9 million people;
(b) to strengthen BNH's S/SFS project preparation, appraisal, and
supervision capabilities and the capability of BNH staff to train
and assist SWCs in these areas;
(c) to improve sewerage pricing policies through the implementation
of new sewerage tariffs;



- 21 -
(d) to assist the SWCs in the continuation of institutional improve-
ment programs being implemented in the areas of planning, finance,
operations, training, and project management; and
(e) to assist the Government in the provision of adequate infra-
structure as required for the industrial and economic development
of the region.
Project Description
6.04      The project consists of a group of water supply and sewerage sub-
projects to be carried out in the states of Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio
Grande do Sul in the period 1980-82; the subprojects are, or will be, included
in the SWCs' approved EVGs. The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign
exchange component of expenditures for procurement contracts awarded by the
SWCs for eligible subprojects (paras. 6.19 and 6.20) between loan signature
date and December 31, 1982. The project is described in more detail in Annex
3 and includes the following components:
(a) extensions and improvements of the water supply and sewerage
systems in Curitiba (capital of Parana);
(b) improvements in the water supply system and construction of a
sewerage system for Florianopolis (capital of Santa Catarina);
(c) construction or expansion and improvements of water supply systems
in medium-size cities 1/ as follows:
Parana              -  approximately 25
Sta. Catarina       -  approximately 30
Rio Grande do Sul  -  approximately 60
(d)  construction or expansion of sewerage systems in medium-size cities
as follows:
Parana              -  approximately 7
Sta. Catarina       -  approximately 4
Rio Grande do Sul  -  approximately 22
(e)  construction or expansion of water systems in small communities
as follows:
Parana              -  approximately 135
Sta. Catarina       -  approximately  40
Rio Grande do Sul  -  approximately  35
1/   Medium-size cities are those with more than 5,000 inhabitants as shown
in the 1970 census, excluding the capital city.



- 22 -
(f)  execution of production metering programs and installation of
consumption meters;
(g) engineering services for detailed design and construction
supervision for the three SWCs, and preparation of water supply
master plans for Florianopolis and Curitiba;
(h) consulting services for technical, financial and institutional
improvements, according to the requirements of individual SWCs;
and
(i)  technical assistance program to improve S/SFS project preparation,
appraisal and supervision and information systems.
6.05      Annex 3 also provides a summary description of major subprojects.
A listing of the medium-size and small-size communities that would benefit
from the project is in the project file. It should be noted that the
relatively low level of sewerage system installation in small communities and
medium-size cities is consistent with PLANASA's priorities for sewerage and
the more immediate need for provision of a minimum supply of safe water in the
project states.
6.06      As mentioned in para. 5.11, there is no production metering in any
of the SWCs. As a basic element for improved operation and unaccounted-for
water control, the SWCs agreed to prepare, before December 31, 1980, production
metering programs and schedules acceptable to the Bank, and to implement such
plans in accordance with the schedules.
6.07      The SWCs have been implementing institutional improvements recom-
mended by BNH with the assistance of SATECIA (para. 2.09). SANEPAR needs
assistance to improve planning and CORSAN to improve information systems.
CASAN, however, needs more comprehensive support to carry out its improvement
program. Specifically, CASAN must carry out a program to strengthen: (a)
physical and financial planning; (b) improvement of internal audit controls;
(c) control and supervision of the execution of physical works; and (d) in-
formation systems and reporting. Assurances were obtained that the SWCs will
take all the necessary steps to implement these programs under conditions and
schedules acceptable to the Bank, and with the assistance of consultants
acceptable to the Bank. The project companies will submit, not later than
December 31, 1980, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, including terms of
reference, manpower estimates, and execution schedules to carry out the
technical assistance program described above.
6.08      One of the objectives of this loan will be to strengthen S/SFS'
project preparation, appraisal and supervision capabilities.  This strengthen-
ing will allow BNH staff to train SWC personnel in these areas, would assist
the Bank in the supervision of projects underway, and would prepare BNH and the
SWCs for Bank sector loans in the future. To achieve this objective, BNH would
retain specialized consultants to help S/SFS simplify and improve its internal
information systems, project appraisal procedures, and project supervision
system. Annex 4 gives the suggested summary terms of reference for these
consultants. Assurances were obtained that BNH will: (a) submit, not later than
June 30, 1980, a plan satisfactory to the Bank containing terms of reference,



- 23 -
manpower estimates and an execution schedule; and (b) take the necessary steps to
carry out this program under terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank and in accordance with the agreed upon schedule.
6.09      An estimated 100 manmonths of specialized consulting services are
required for technical assistance to S/SFS and the SWCs. Of this total about
30 manmonths would be for S/SFS and about 70 manmonths for the SWCs.
Engineering
6.10      Final engineering is completed or well advanced for all major sub-
projects and subprojects for small communities to be commenced in 1980. Feasi-
bility studies or updating of designs for some of those subprojects to be
constructed after 1980 are under preparation or being contracted with private
consultants. Approximately 50% of the project works are already designed and
bids equivalent to 30% of the total project investments will be advertised and
awarded during 1980. Additional engineering services totalling about 2,800
manmonths are required to complete designs and for construction supervision
during 1980-82. Engineering represents around 5% of the total project cost.
Project Costs
6.11      Annex 5 gives a summary of the total investment programs for the
three SWCs during the period 1980-82, which amount to US$545.5 million. Of the
total, about US$106 million corresponds to expenditures on projects underway
as of January 1, 1980, or to be completed after December 31, 1982, and which
would be ineligible for Bank financing. The total project cost for which Bank
financing would be available is about US$439 million and the resulting proposed
loan amount US$130 million, representing the estimated foreign exchange cost
of the project. Annex 6 gives details of project costs and the foreign
exchange component. Foreign exchange costs represent 30% of the total costs
and were estimated on the basis of a representative sample of subprojects com-
prising around 40% of project costs. Table 6.1 summarizes the project costs.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS a/
(In US$ millions)
… --------SWCs …
Item                   SANEPAR   CASAN  CORSAN   Local  Foreign  Total
Construction Costs:
Water Supply                      77.5      22.1    56.7   109.3    47.0   156.3
Sewerage                          63.8      49.9    60.9   119.8    54.8   174.6
Engineering and
Technical Assistance               5.6       5.8     5.9    16.1      1.2    17.3
Base Cost                     146.9     77.8   123.5   245.2   103.0   348.2
Physical Contingencies              14.7       7.8    12.3    24.5       10.3   34.8
Price Contingencies                 23.4      13.0    19.8    39.3      16.7   56.0
Total                         185.0     98.6   155.6   309.0    130.0  439.0
a/   See Annex 6 for details.



- 24 -
6.12      Cost estimates have been based on bills of quantities prepared by
the consultants for those projects with final engineering designs. Estimates
for the remainder were obtained on the basis of average unit per capita costs
using samples of similar projects previously financed by the Bank in Brazil
or executed by SWCs. Basic costs were estimated at June 1979 price levels
and exclude capitalized administrative expenses incurred by the SWCs and
interest during construction. Physical contingency allowances average 10%;
this percentage was based on the advanced status of engineering for major sub-
projects (para. 6.10) and on the SWCs' experience with standardized subprojects.
Engineering and technical assistance consulting services for the SWCs and BNH
have been calculated on the basis of US$6,000 per manmonth. Estimates were
prepared in UPCs (para 3.07) and converted to US dollars at 1 UPC = $15.00.
Price escalation of 7% p.a. has been applied to the base cost and physical
contingencies.
Financing
6.13      The SWCs' expansion programs are to be financed by loans from BNH and
state revolving funds (FAEs). The Bank loan of US$130 million would finance
the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, representing 30% of the
project's total cost, and the balance of project costs will be financed by
BNH funds (20%) and loans from the state FAEs (50%). Assurances were obtained
from BNH and the state governments on the timely provision of local currency
funds to carry out the Bank-financed program on schedule.
6.14      BNH would relend the Bank funds together with its own funds to the
SWCs at interest rates of 4% to 5% p.a. 1/, with an 18-30 year maturity period
including a one to four-and-one-half year grace period on principal repayments 2/.
Principal and interest will be subject to monetary correction (denominated in
UPCs, para. 3.07). The loan would be allocated as follows, but subject to
revision depending on the actual execution rate of each SWC.
US$ million
SANEPAR (Parana)                         54.9
CASAN (Sta. Catarina)                    28.0
CORSAN (Rio Grande do Sul)               46.9
BNH Technical Assistance                  0.2
Total                              130.0
Implementation
6.15      The project will be executed by SANEPAR, CASAN, and CORSAN during
the period 1980-82. The construction schedule for the major subprojects is
given in Annex 7. Annual construction schedules for the smaller subprojects
1/   Under supplemental financing plans (FINEST II and III, para. 3.05)
the interest rate is 2% lower.
2/   See para. 7.09 regarding interest spread for BNH.



- 25 -
would be prepared during project execution, with the schedule for 1980 to be
agreed upon in January 1980. The individual subprojects to be financed by the
Bank have been prepared, or will be prepared, by competent consultants retained
by the SWCs. Subproject design will be subsequently reviewed by BNH's OTs
located in each state's capital city 1/. The OTs have well-qualified teams
which review the basic project and the final designs and also assist BNH's
central and regional offices in the supervision and control of project execution.
Financial and economic evaluation will be carried out at BNH Headquarters.
BNH will have responsibility for coordinating the entire project.
6.16      The Bank will review all subprojects with an estimated investment
cost of US$2.0 million or more. It is estimated that some 25 subprojects will
require review during project execution. These 25 subprojects, together with
the 15 subprojects reviewed during appraisal (para. 6.19), represent around 70%
of the programmed investments. Subprojects in which the estimated investment
costs are less than US$2.0 million may be approved by BNH subject to ex-post
review by the Bank on a selective basis. At the time Bank financing is approved
for a particular subproject, funds sufficient to cover the Bank's share of
subproject costs will be committed to the subproject to ensure Bank participa-
tion up to the time of its completion.
6.17      BNR has prepared technical guidelines on the basis of which the SWCs
have adopted engineering guidelines for communities with fewer than 5,000
inhabitants. These guidelines aim at: (a) reducing the design costs and the
construction period for subprojects; (b) ensuring that construction costs are
kept to a minimum; and (c) reducing, through standardization, the operating
and maintenance costs of small communities. These engineering guidelines were
reviewed during appraisal and found to be in conformity with current design
practices followed for similar Bank-financed small community systems and with
sound engineering principles. The delegation of authority to BNH to approve
subprojects under US$2.0 million is consistent with the institutional capabili-
ties of BNH in subproject analysis and approval.
6.18      The proposed investment program and construction schedules have been
discussed with the SWCs and BNR and are compatible with their execution capa-
bilities. SWCs are staffed with qualified personnel and have experienced
engineering units which, with appropriate consultant assistance as provided for
in the project, would execute the proposed works (para. 6.10).
Subproject Selection
6.19      The appraisal mission reviewed 15 major subprojects representing
nearly 50% of proposed project investments and found them acceptable for Bank
financing 2/. Designs are prepared following generally accepted engineering
1/   Parana - Administracao de Recursos Hidricos - ARH.
Sta. Catarina - Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental - CETESB.
Rio Grande do Sul - Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento - DNOS.
2/   SANEPAR:  Curitiba, Londrina, Ponta Grossa, Cascavel, Umuarama.
CASAN:    Florianopolis, Joinville, Lages, Canoinhas.
CORSAN:   Canoas-Niteroi, Novo Hamburgo, Santa Maria, Capao
da Canoa, Passo Fundo, Tramandai.



-26 -
pr:riis;lp Ja±- u aue cons -4deratioa is given to local conditions such as special
constrouCtio-'7 ptror&emsr avai-lability of materials, local patterns of water
consuiitionr, arnd waste loads. In those cases where conventional collective
waterborne systems are not technically or economically appropriate for waste
disposal, individual solutions are proposed. Least-cost analysis is made on
the basis of present worth comparison of alternatives and is satisfactory.
Design periods and staging of works is generally based on a 10 to 20 year
planning horizon depending on the costs, divisibility, and nature of the
projects. Sewage treatment levels are decided on the basis of Federal and
state pollution control regulations, as well as on studies of the impact on
receiving waters. In the case of sewerage subprojects for Florianopolis and
Joinville in Sta. Catarina, the final disposal system is still under study.
The Bank will review and comment on these studies once they are concluded.
6.20      Assurances were obtained that the following basic criteria for
acceptability of a subproject for Bank financing will be used:
(a) all subprojects should comply with the following four conditions:
(i) they must be included in the last EVG (para. 6.02) approved by
BNH and accepted by the Bank;
(ii) total subproject cost will not be substantially higher than that
included in the EVG. If the subproject scope or costs are
substantially different from those contemplated in the EVG,
satisfactory evidence must be presented to the Borrower and the
Bank that such inclusion and financing will not deteriorate the
SWC's financial position;
(iii) design must be in conformity with sound engineering practices;
and
(iv) subprojects must be the least-cost solution;
(b)  subprojects to be carried out in a medium-size or large city must
have an internal financial rate of return at least equal to the
average cost of capital to the respective SWC; if not, the subproject
will be eligible for Bank financing only if the Bank is furnished
with satisfactory economic and social justification;
(c) subprojects for communities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants
must satisfy the criteria under (a) above, and in addition:
(i) be designed in accordance with the engineering guidelines for
small communities (para. 6.17); and
(ii) have a per capita construction cost of less than 12 UPCs
(or approximately US$180). If the per capita cost exceeds this
value, the subproject must be redesigned to lower acceptable
standards or staged to meet the criterion. If after redesign
the criterion is not fulfilled, the subproject will be eligible
for Bank financing only after satisfactory social and economic
justification is furnished to the Bank.



- 27 -
In the case of subprojects consisting only of sewerage works, subprojects must
fulfill conditions a(i) to a(iv) and have a satisfactory economic (recognizing
external benefits) and social justification. BNH would furnish subprojects for
approval (para 6.16) together with an appraisal including economic, financial,
and social analysis (where required) of the subprojects.
Environmental Aspects
6.21      The project will support the programs of the Southern States to
improve the environment and to comply with the National Government's pollution
control legislation. The project will double the sewerage service levels and
thereby improve living conditions in those areas now most affected by lack of
water-borne sewerage facilities. The project also includes sewage treatment
facilities in 10 cities where pollution loads into inland waterways are
excessive. There are no negative environmental effects associated with the
project.
Procurement
6.22      Project goods and civil works will be purchased and carried out
respectively under contracts awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on
the basis of international competitive bidding. However, civil works contracts
under US$3.0 million and contracts for equipment or materials under US$0.4
million can be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign bidders will not be pre-
cluded from participating in local bidding. Assurances were obtained
that: (a) SWCs will prepare and make available to the Bank, not later than
60 days prior to the issue of the first tender or prequalification documents,
a general procurement notice satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) SWCs will
update such a notice annually as long as any goods or works remain to be
procured. The Bank will have prior review and approval of invitations to bid
and of proposed awards for all civil works contracts estimated to cost US$4.0
million or more, and for all equipment contracts estimated to cost US$1.0
million or more. For all other contracts the SWCs will make available to the
Bank for review copies of each contract together with the respective bidding
documents, bid analysis report and recommendations for award. In the evalua-
tion of bids, the local manufacturers will be allowed a margin of preference of
either 15% of the cif price or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
Consulting services will be awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. It is expected that all contracts for engineering design and supervision
will be awarded to local firms. Given the advanced development of the civil
works construction industry in Brazil, all civil works contracts are expected
to be won by local contractors. Also, the bulk of the equipment and materials'
contracts is likely to be won by Brazilian firms or Brazilian subsidiaries of
foreign suppliers.
Disbursements
6.23      Disbursements for the proposed loan are scheduled to be completed
before June 30, 1983 which would be the closing date for the loan. Table 6.2
gives the estimated schedule of disbursements. The proceeds of the loan would
be made available to BNH in an amount equivalent to:



- 28 -
(a)  54% of BNH's disbursements to SWCs on eligible subprojects or on
technical assistance programs mentioned in para. 6.07 1/;
(b) 27% of BNH's disbursements to the states under the FINEST II
line of credit approved subprojects 2/;
Table 6.2: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year                   Disbursements in                 Cumulative at end
& Quarter                       the Quarter                         of Quarter
1979-80
March 31, 1980                       -                                 -
June 30, 1980                       0.5                               0.5
1980-81
September 30, 1980                  3.5                               4.0
December 31, 1980                   6.5                              10.0
March 31, 1981                      9.5                              20.0
June 30, 1981                      12.5                              32.5
1981-82
September 30, 1981                 13.0                              45.5
December 31, 1981                  14.5                              60.0
March 31, 1982                     14.0                              74.0
June 30, 1982                      12.0                              86.0
1982-83
September 30, 1982                 12.0                              98.0
December 31, 1982                  11.5                             109.5
March 31, 1983                     10.5                             120.0
June 30, 1983                      10.0                             130.0
1/   BNH lends and disburses to the SWCs 50% of the direct project cost, plus
an amount equivalent to about 6.5% of the direct project cost to cover
the SWCs' project-related expenses which are capitalized and lending
fees.  The disbursement percentages have been derived to exclude Bank
financing of capitalized administrative expenses and financial charges.
2/   BNH loans under FINEST II finance 100% of the direct project cost plus
an amount equivalent to about 13.0% of the direct project cost to cover
the SWCs' project-related expenses which are capitalized and lending fees.



- 29 -
(c) 54% of BNH's disbursements to the states under the FINEST III
line of credit for small communities' programs; and
(d) 100% of foreign costs for consulting services for the technical
assistance program to BNH, mentioned in para. 6.08.
6.24      Bank disbursements would be made against a certificate of expenditure
made by the Borrower for each subproject, the detailed documentation of which
would not be submitted for Bank review, but would be retained by the benefi-
ciary and made available for inspection during the course of supervision mis-
sions. Disbursements against the foreign costs of consulting services would
be made against standard documentation. No works by force account are envisaged.
Similar procedures are being successfully used in previous loans for the sector
in Brazil (Annex 8).
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
The Borrower
7.01      BNH is the largest Government-owned banking institution in Brazil
dedicated to social development with total assets at the end of 1978 of
US$14.2 billion. BNH's main activities, which are nationwide, are concerned
with the financing of low-cost housing, urban development, and the sanitation
sector. Over the period 1971-80, BNH will invest about 54% of its resources
in low-cost housing programs, 17% in urban development for infrastructure and
mass transportation systems, 17% in sanitation projects, and the remaining 12%
in studies, training, technical assistance, and miscellaneous activities.
BNH's primary source of funds is an 8% employer's payroll contribution (Employee
Indemnity Fund-FGTS) for all nongovernment employees covered by labor legisla-
tion. Individual FGTS accounts are maintained for the participants (in UPCs)
and withdrawals of the deposits can be made when a worker is unemployed or
retired. All deposits are subject to monetary correction and those made after
1974 earn interest at the rate of 3% p.a. Other fund sources for BNH include
interest and principal repayments from its existing loans and investments,
sales of government securities, and other deposits.
Past and Present Finances
7.02      The following summary financial statements indicate the development
of BNH's financial activities since 1971. Full details are given in Annex 9.



- 30 -
Table 7.1: BNH SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(US$ millions)
1971     1973      1975     1977    1978
Loan and Service Income              163.0      341.1    559.6    801.3    955.7
Less Operating Expense               102.0      196.5    339.0    592.6    734.5
Operating Income                      61.0      144.6    220.6    208.7    221.2
FGTS Deposits (net)                  424.4      727.1  1,135.1  1,458.0  1,748.5
Loan Amortization/Other              249.0      361.8    904.7    912.2  1,384.9
Total Sources                      734.4   1,233.5  2,260.4  2,578.8  3,354.6
New Loans Granted                    618.4   1,021.9  1,939.4  2,483.2  3,010.8
Other Applications                   116.0      211.6    321.0      95.6    343.8
Total Applications                 734.4   1,233.5  2,260.4  2,578.8  3,354.6
Table 7.2: BNR SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS
(US$ millions)
December 31                 1971       1973       1975       1977     1978
Loan Receivables                 1,545.3   3,131.7   5,461.4   9,631.0  11,918.6
Negotiable Bonds                   203.8      761.1   1,120.0   1,003.2   1,289.3
Other Assets                       378.1     345.4      893.2      931.6   1,027.1
Total Assets               2,127.2   4,238.2   7,474.6  11,565.8  14,235.0
FGTS Fund Deposits               1,741.5   3,373.3   5,337.7   8,021.7   9,855.3
Capital and Reserves               283.8     696.4   1,349.8   1,644.5   1,871.2
Other Liabilities                  101.9      168.5     787.1   1,899.6   2,508.5
Total Liabilities          2,127.2   4,238.2   7,474.6  11,565.8  14,235.0
7.03      BNH's gross loan and service income has shown steady and rapid
growth since 1971 (29% p.a.), and until 1976 operating income increased at
the same rate and averaged about 40% of revenues during the period. Loan and
service income growth slowed to about 20% p.a. in 1977 and 1978, operating
income declined from US$256.0 million in 1976 to US$208.7 million in 1977 and



- 31 -
US$221.2 million in 1978. These operating incomes represented only 26% and
23% of loan and service income respectively. This reduced margin reflected
primarily the fact that operating expenses increased at more than twice the
rate of revenue growth in 1977 and about 25% faster in 1978. There was,
however, improvement in 1978 which resulted from the efforts of BNH's manage-
ment to hold down growth in expenses, a program which is being continued by
BNH's new management.
7.04      Since 1971, net receipts of the FGTS have grown at a rate of 22%
p.a. In 1978 they increased by 20% to US$1,749 million and represented about
52% of total BNH fund sources, slightly less than the level which prevailed in
1971 (58%). Amortization of loan principal, which had increased only slightly
since 1974, was up 33% in 1978 to US$881 million, and short-term deposits and
other sources were slightly lower than the previous year at US$504 million.
Total funds available for investment in 1978 were US$0.6 billion higher than
in 1977 and new loans increased by US$0.5 billion to US$3.0 billion.
7.05      Since 1971, BNH's loan portfolio has expanded almost 700% and its
total assets have grown by 570%, a record of outstanding growth. To protect
the FGTS from losses due to inflation, BNH denominates all financial transac-
tions in a constant monetary unit, the Unidade Padrao de Capital (UPC)
(para 3.07). Additionally, BNH requires that all its loans be guaranteed
by state or municipal governments or financial institutions, or secured by
mortgages where appropriate. At the end of 1978 BNH's capital and reserves
were equal to 13% of liabilities, which is satisfactory.
7.06      As covenanted under previous loans, BNH will have its accounts for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
submit the audited financial statements and auditor's report to the Bank
within four months of the close of each fiscal year.
Financial Projections
7.07      Each year BNH prepares a three-year investment program (expressed
in UPCs) which is approved by the Minister of Interior. For the period 1979-
81 BNH's investment budget totals US$13.0 billion with projected fund sources
and applications as indicated in the following table:



- 32 -
Table 7.3:  BNH PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS, 1979-81
Amount           %
(In US$ millions)
Sources
FGTS (Net)                                         6,267            48
Net Receipts on Lending Operations                 3,972            31
Operating Income                                   1,323            10
Sale of Securities/Other (Net)                     1,205             9
Foreign Loans (including Bank Loans)                 240             2
Total Sources                               13,007           100
Applications
Housing                                            8,871            68
Sanitation                                         2,117            16
Urban Development                                  1,274            10
Technical Assistance                                 594             5
Other                                                151             1
Total Applications                           13,007          100
7.08      During the three-year program, BNH's growth in disbursements has been
projected at 13% p.a. The sectorial distribution of investments has shifted
slightly in favor of housing over the past several years and sanitation
lending has remained at about 16% of total lending. Revenues are projected
to grow at a rate of 25% p.a. during the 1979-81 period. BNH's administrative
costs, however, are projected to increase at a rate of 40% p.a. and in 1981
will be equivalent to 13% of total income versus 9% in 1978. This increase
is attributed to the need for expanded technical assistance and additional
personnel for the decentralization of BNH's activities. BNH's management is
aware of its rapidly increasing administrative costs and has programs underway
to promote better utilization of its personnel.
7.09       BNH's lending terms for the sanitation sector reflect social consid-
erations and are not strictly commercial. Interest rates on basic lending and
FINEST I vary from 2.0% p.a. to 7.0% p.a., with the lower rates applicable to
the poorer states. Interest rate concessions have been granted on sewerage
projects and on supplemental lending programs (FINEST II and III), and recently
the maturity on sewerage loans was extended from 18 years to 30 years. Depend-
ing on the relative movements of exchange rates and the index used by BNH for
monetary correction (ORTN), the effective interest rate on the Bank loan may
be higher than the onlending rate of interest. This, coupled with the fact
that the maturity of BNH's loans to the SWCs exceeds the maturity of the Bank



- 33 -
loan is likely to result in BNH's debt service payments to the Bank exceeding
payments to BNH by the SWCs. BNH's financial position is expected to be strong
enough to absorb this shortfall without difficulty. A comparison of Bank terms
and BNH onlending terms to the SWCs follows:
Table 7.4: BASIC LENDING TERMS FOR THE SANITATION SECTOR
Normal           Southern States
PLANASA Terms               Terms          Bank Terms
BNH       FAE         BNH         FAE
Currency of
Currency                          UPCs                    UPCs         Disbursement
Annual Interest (%)        2.0-7.0 a/ 3.0-6.0   4.0-5.0 a/ 2.0-5.0          8.25
Grace Period (years)         1-4.5       1-4.5     1-4.5       1-4.5        3
Final Maturity (years) bI/ 18-30        18-30     18-30       18-30        15
a/   Under supplemental financing plans (FINEST II and III) the interest
rate is 2% lower.
b/   Water supply, 18 years maturity; sewerage, 30 years maturity.
7.10      In addition to the interest rate, BNH charges a fee on each disburse-
ment of 1% for administration, 1.2% for operations of the OT, and 0.5% for
BNH's technical services. BNH's financial agent, which is normally the state
bank, is entitled to add up to 1% p.a. to the interest rate to cover administ-
rative expenses and is entitled to receive 0.1% of each periodic payment made
by the SWCs to amortize the loan. The resulting interest cost on BNH loans to
the project SWCs is about 5.2% p.a. for CASAN and 6.2% for CORSAN and SANEPAR.
Since loans are denominated in constant monetary units, the interest rates are
not designed to compensate for inflation.
The Beneficiaries
7.11      This section will cover tariff matters common to all project SWCs
and then review the past, current and projected financial position of each
SWC.
Tariffs
7.12      Tariff structures for the SWCs are basically similar, with residen-
tial, commercial and industrial consumer categories as indicated in Table
7.5. Residential customers who are not metered are billed at a flat rate
equivalent to the minimum consumption charge for metered consumers, which
is Cr$41.13 (US$1.60) per month for SANEPAR, Cr$55.80 (US$2.18) per month for
CASAN, and Cr$72.00 (US$2.813 per month for CORSAN 1/.  Meterei residential
customers pay from Cr$4.84/m (US$0.19) (CASAN) and Cr$10.56/m (US$0.41)
(CORSAN) for excess consumption. Minimum charges for commercial and industrial
consumers are slightly higher than for residential consumers, and excess
consumption charges are the same or slightly higher. Sewerage tariffs are
equivalent to 80% of the water charge for CASAN and SANEPAR and there is a
flat charge of Cr$62.40 (US$2.43) per month for CORSAN.
1/   Cr$25.65 equivalent to US$1.00 (May 1979 rate).



Table 7.5: TARIFF STRUCTURES OF THE PROJECT SWCs
(effective January 1, 1979)
(Current Cr$)
----------- CORSAN -------------               --------------- SANEPAR            …-         -CASAN --------------
Water             Quantity       Tariff        Water           Quantity        Tariff        Water           Quantity        Tariff
Residential a/    0-15 m3          72.00       Residential a/  0-10 m3          41.13        Residential a/  0-15 m3          55.80
Commercial        0-30 m3        138.00                        11-15 m3         49.31        Excess Consum.       /m3          4.84
Excess Consum.         /m3        10.56                        16-25 m3          5.20/m3    Commercial        0-20 m3         83.20
26-50 m3          6.30/m3    Excess Consum.        /m3          5.40
50-               9.03/m3    Industrial       0-30 m3        138.00
Excess Consum.       /m3          5.98
Sewerage         Per connection  62.40         Commercial b/   0-15 m3          65.69
15-               6.57/m3
Sewerage                        80% of       Sewerage                         80% of
water charge                                 water charge
a/ Unmetered connections billed at minimum rate for metered connections.
b/ Includes industrial and government.



- 35 -
7.13      The tariff structures are applicable to both the capital city and
interior municipalities and no attempt is made to relate charges to capital
investments and operating cost conditions in the various municipalities. The
tariff structures are progressive, with the incremental consumntion costing
120% more than the initial m charge for CORSAN, 75% for SANEPAR, and 30%
for CASAN. As part of their next tariff increase proposal, SANEPAR plans to
eliminate the regressivity now inherent in the second consumption block for
residential consumers and CORSAN plans to use a percentage of the water charge
for billing sewerage services. With these modifications the tariff structures
are considered satisfactory. Managements of the SWCs recognize that future
water tariff increases may have to be accompanied by tariff restructuring to
take into account aspects of income distribution and water conservation.
Also, because all three SWCs are initiating major sewerage projects, some
involving treatment including industrial wastes, revisions will have to be
made to sewerage tariff levels and structures. The project SWCs agreed to
prepare sewerage tariff proposals with the cooperation of BNH, not later than
January 31, 1981, review them with the Bank, and implement the approved sewerage
tariff structures by January 31, 1982.
Revenue Covenant
7.14      The three project SWCs have recognized the need to improve their
financial positions. They have agreed to revenue covenants which will
require that tariffs be established at levels specified under the National
Tariff Law (No. 6258) and Regulations (Decree No. 82587) (paras. 2.13 and
2.14). The Law and Regulations require that in 1983 and subsequent years
revenues be sufficient to cover cash operating and maintenance expense
and depreciation and provide a rate of return on operating investments which
will produce sufficient cash generation to cover debt service 1/. The Tariff
Regulations provide for the SWCs to increase tariffs gradually in order to meet
the requirements of the Law by 1983. The companies and the Government have
agreed to increase tariffs in 1980 individually for the companies as required
up to 45%2/, which is the Government's objective for the rate of inflation in
Brazil for the year. On the basis of further financial studies to be com-
pleted annually (EVGs), tariff adjustments will be defined and implemented
progressively in 1981 and 1982 in order to achieve the 1983 requirements
of the National Tariff Law. Provision was made for periodic review with
BNH of the tariff increase requirements in 1981 and 1982 to ensure that
proposed tariff increases will be sufficient to meet the requirements of the
law in 1983.
1/  Operating investments are defined as net fixed assets in operation,
excluding those financed by grants, and working capital (with limitations).
For purposes of analysis and the revenue covenant, it has been assumed
that operating investments as defined in the Tariff Law and Regulations
will be equivalent to average net fixed assets in operation, i.e. that
the difference between grants and working capital will be negligible.
2/  Initial tariff increase have been made effective February 1, 1980 as
follows: CORSAN 18.1%; CASAN, 29.8%; and SANEPAR 34.0%. Supplemental
tariff adjustments are to be made within six months.



- 36 -
Financial Status anid Projections of the Beneficiaries
7.15      Past and projected income, cash flow statements, and balance sheets
for CORSAN, SANEPAR, and CASAN are presented in Annex 10. Because of the high
rates of inflation which distort year to year comparisons, the historical
income statements and balance sheets and the projected financial statements
have been stated in UPCs. The UPCs used in the financial
projections have been escalated at 7% p.a. during the period 1980-86, to
reflect the recent differential growth rates in the ORTN (on which the
UPClcruzeiro parity is based) and the general price index in Brazil. The
tariff levels assumed in the projections are those which will produce revenues
enabling the SWCs to comply with the Tariff Law and Regulations in 1983 and
subsequent years. In the interim years, tariffs have been assumed to increase
in approximately equal annual percentages from 1979 levels in order to reach
the 1983 objective of the Tariff Law and Regulations. These projections were
made prior to the Covernment's decision in March 1980 to limit tariff increases
to 45%, and accordingly the rates of return for CASAN and SANEPAR in 1980 are
expected to be lower than originally projected. The requ-red tariff increases
in the years 1981-83 will have to be slightly greater than any now shown in
order to reach the 1983 objective of the Tariff Law and Regulations. The
rates of return expected in 1980 together with the projected rates of return
required in 1983 under the provisions of the Tariff Law and Regulations
are given in Table 7.6 below:
Table 7.6: PROJECT SWCs' PROJECTED RATES OF RETURN a/
1s980       1981       1982       1983
CORSAN           4.2%        6.5%       6.0%       6.0%
CASAN            2.0% b/     5.5%       6.0%       7.2%
SANEPAR         (0.7%) b/    4.0%       7.0%       7.8%
a/  Percent of revenue less operating expenses and depreciation to operating
investments (defined as net fixed assets in operation, excluding those
financed by grants, and working capital (with limitations)).
b/  Revised from figures shown in subsequent tables to reflect Government's
decision to limit tariff increases to 45% in 1980.
CORSAN
7.16      In 1976 CORSAN had an operating ratio of .86 and net income equiva-
lent to 10% of revenues, which represented a deterioration from 1977 results.
The rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation was an acceptable
4.5% and the debt service ratio was 3.0.  In 1979 tariffs were not increased
in line with projected operating expenses, 1/ and the operating ratio is
expected to increase to .94.  Operating income is expected to be just suffi-
cient to cover interest expense, and a modest net income is projected only as
a resulL of non-operational revenue.. The rate of return is expected to fall
1/ CORSAN requested a tariff increase of 41% effective January 1, 1979, and
was granted 20% by the CIP.



- 37 -
to 1.6% in 1979. CORSAN's liquidity position is satisfactory and its capital-
ization is conservative, with debt representing about 59% of total capital.
Table 7.7 summarizes financial results for 1977 and 1978 and projections
through 1983:
Table 7.7: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - CORSAN
(UPC millions)
------------ Projected -----------…--
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982         1983
Water Sold (million m3)    118.0    137.7   139.3   150.7   161.5   170.9   178.5
US$/m3 (water)               0.233    0.231   0.213   0.248   0.279   0.314   0.353
Revenues                      2.01      2.30    2.34    2.86    3.54    4.18    4.97
Operating Costs a!            1.58      1.98    2.20    2.46    2.82    3.27    3.80
Operating Income               .43       .32     .14      .40      .72     .91    1.17
Interest                       .11       .13     .14      .14      .14     .22      .65
Non-operational Revenue        .03       .03      .03     .03      .03     .02      .02
Net Income/(Loss)              .35       .22      .03     .29      .61     .71      .54
Operating Ratio                .79       .86      .94     .86      .80     .78      .76
Debt Service Ratio             3.4       3.0     2.5      3.8      5.2     4.2      1.8
Rate of Return (%)             8.4       4.5      1.6     4.2      6.5     6.0      6.0
Contribution to
investments (%) b/          26       20       10       15      20       21       15
Debt/Total Capital (%)        49        46      59       69       76      78       80
a/   Including depreciation.
b/   Internal cash generation less debt service as a percent of new investment.
7.17      Income projections based on tariffs designed to meet the requirements
of the Brazilian Tariff Law and Regulations (para. 7.14) indicate that in 1980
and subsequent years CORSAN will have a satisfactory operating ratio, net
income and rate of return on net fixed assets in operation. To achieve this
performance CORSAN will have to increase tariffs in real terms by about 27%
during the 1980-83 period 1/. All capital expenditures are assumed to be
financed by BNH/FAE loans and internal cash generation will be adequate to
cover working capital and debt service requirements during the forecast
period. With regard to the balance sheet, liquidity will be satisfactory and
the percentage of debt to total capital is expected to increase to 80%.
1/   In current cruzeiros the tariff increase needed to keep pace with price
escalation is estimated to be equivalent to the annual devaluation of the
cruzeiro vis-a-vis the UPC plus 7% (para. 7.15). At rates of inflation
prevailing in 1979, tariff increases of more than 50% p.a. in current
cruzeiros will be required.



- 38 -
SANEPAR
7.18      In 1978 SANEPAR had an operating ratio of .90 and reported a net
loss equivalent to 4% of revenues. Internal cash generation was sufficient
to provide a debt service ratio of 1.2 and the rate of return on average net
fixed assets in operation was 2.8%. These results were slightly worse than
1977, as operating income and the rate of return both declined. In 1979
SANEPAR's financial performance is expected to deteriorate further as the
increase in operating expenses will not be matched by gains in revenue.
SANEPAR's current financial position is very tight (current ratio 0.8), and
debt constitutes 79% of total capitalization. SANEPAR's overall financial
position is barely satisfactory as its tariffs are low in relation to operating
expenses and debt service requirements. Table 7.8 gives the highlights of
SANEPAR's financial performance for 1977 and 1978 and the projected performance
through 1983.
Table 7.8: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - SANEPAR
(UPC millions)
------- Projected ---------------
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
.3
Water 3Sold (million m )   110.7    121.6    136.7    147.3    160.8    170.5    180.9
US$/m  (water)              0.163    0.191    0.183    0.219    0.254    0.291    0.341
Revenues                     1.77      2.23      2.22     2.85      3.58      4.87     5.96
Operating Costs a/           1.41      2.00     2.18      2.51      2.91      3.39     3.94
Operating Income              .36       .23       .04      .34       .67      1.48     2.02
Interest                      .46       .36       .34      .59       .56       .74       .96
Non-operational Revenue       .03       .04       .04      .04       .04       .04       .04
Net Income/(Loss)            (.07)    (.09)    (.26)    (.21)        .15       .78      1.10
Operating Ratio               .80       .90       .98      .88       .81       .70       .66
Debt Service Ratio            .9       1.2      0.7       0.9       1.2       1.5       1.6
Rate of Return (%)           6.1       2.8       0.5      2.6       4.0       7.0       7.8
Contribution to
investment (%) b/         (1)     (10)       (5)       (1)        4       15        29
Debt/Total Capital (%) _  78          71        79       83        87        87       85
a/   Including depreciation.
b/   Internal cash generation less debt service as a percent of new investment.



- 39 -
7.19      Income projections based on tariffs which will allow SANEPAR to
meet the requirements of the Brazilian Tariff Law and Regulations indicate
a slightly improved operating income in 1980, but higher interest expense
will produce a net loss slightly below that of 1979. The rate of return,
however, is expected to improve from 0.5% in 1979 to 2.6% in 1980. In 1981
and subsequent years all measures of income and cash flow are expected
to improve to satisfactory levels. SANEPAR's operating ratio will improve
from .98 in 1979 to .66 in 1983, net income equivalent to 11% of revenues will
be earned in 1983, the rate of return on net fixed assets in operation will
reach 7.8%, and the debt service ratio will rise from 0.8 in 1979 to 1.6 in
1983. The percentage of debt to total capital, which is already high, is
projected to increase to 85% by 1983. Attainment of this projected financial
performance will require a tariff increase in real terms of 42% between 1979
and 1983.
CASAN
7.20      In 1978 CASAN had an operating ratio of .99 and reported a net loss
equivalent to 26% of revenues. Internal cash generation was not sufficient
to meet debt service and the rate of return on average net fixed assets in
operation was only 0.3%. CASAN's liquidity is low and debt accounts for about
85% of total capitalization. In 1979 CASAN is expected to incur an operating
loss and a net loss larger than in 1978 and to be unable to cover its debt
service requirements from internal cash generation. CASAN's present financial
position is thus unsatisfactory as its tariffs are low in relation to operating
costs and debt service requirements. The table below indicates CASAN's
financial results for 1977 and 1978 and projected financial performance
through 1983.



- 40 -
Table 7.9: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - CASAN
(UPC millions)
---------------Projected----------------
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Water3Sold (million m )       36.4    44.9    52.5    61.1    69.0    75.8    82.2
US$/m  (water)               0.194   0.191   0.183   0.209   0.239   0.273   0.312
Revenues                       .58      .73      .80    1.09    1.41    1.76    2.19
Operating Costs a/             .68      .72      .81     .92    1.07    1.26    1.45
Operating Income/(Loss)       (.10)    .01    (.01)    .17        .34      .50     .74
Interest                       .12      .17      .30     .29      .29      .30     .44
Non-opn. Revenue/(Expense)   .13    (.02)    .05         .04      .05      .04     .04
Net Income/(Loss)             (.09)   (.18)   (.26)   (.08)    .10         .24      .34
Operating Ratio               1.17      .99    1.01      .84      .76      .72     .66
Debt Service Ratio             .4       .3       .5      .9      1.2      1.4      1.5
Rate of Return (%)           (4.5)      .3      (.2)    3.5      5.6     5.9       7.2
Contribution to
investment (%) b/         (10)    (20)    (16)       (2)      3        7        14
Debt/Total Capital (%)       91       85      90       93       94      94        93
a/   Including depreciation.
b/   Internal cash generation less debt service as a percent of new investment.
7.21      Income projections indicate that in 1980 CASAN's operating income
would be positive, though it would still incur a net loss, but notably
smaller than in 1979. Internal cash generation will fall short of meeting
debt service requirements (debt service ratio 0.9). In 1981 and subsequent
years net income and cash generation in 1980 will be at satisfactory levels
and by 1983 the rate of return on net fixed assets in operation is expected to
be 7.2%.  To meet the requirements of the tariff regulations in 1983, CASAN
will have to raise its tariffs from their 1979 levels by 30% in real terms.
Financing Plan
7.22      The financing plan for the three project SWCs during the imple-
mentation period of the project (1980-82) is summarized in Table 7.10 below.
Essentially, BNH and FAE will finance all capital expenditures, including
capitalized project administration expenses and interest. The Bank loan
will finance about 30% of the direct project cost and will meet about 20% of
the SWC's borrowing requirements in the 1980-82 period. Internal cash
generation will be sufficient to cover debt service requirements and working
capital.



- 41 -
Table 7.10: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT SWCs, 1980-82
(UPC millions)
CORSAN     SANEPAR       CASAN      TOTAL
Requirements
Investments in Project                10.38       12.34         6.57     29.29
Other Works/Capitalized Expenses       4.23        4.75         2.35     11.33
Interest During Construction           1.29         .96          .68      2.93
Working Capital                        2.70         .95          .42       4.07
Total Requirements                  18.60       19.00        10.02     47.62
Sources
Internal Cash Generation a/            2.70         .95          .42      4.07
Long-Term Debt:
IBRD                              3.07        3.65        1.95       8.67
BNH                               4.88        5.38         2.85     13.11
FAE                               7.95        9.02        4.80      21.77
Subtotal                            15.90       18.05         9.60     43.55
Total Sources                         18.60       19.00        10.02     47.62
a/   After debt service.
Evaluation
7.23      The financial performance of the SWCs will be closely monitored
during supervision and the financial projections revised annually. The
tariffs required to meet the revenue covenants have been based on aggregate
statewide projections of water produced, unaccounted-for and sold, and if
water sales fail to materialize, actual tariffs in real terms will have to be
higher than indicated in the financial projections. The problem of increasing
tariffs in real terms is compounded by a high rate of inflation which in 1979
was in excess of 50% p.a. It is probable that tariff adjustments will have to
be made more often than annually as is now the common practice, and indexed
tariffs or monthly increases would be much preferable to the present system.
Compliance with the Bank's revenue covenant will insure financially strong
water companies which will increasingly be able to finance capital expenditures
from internal cash generation. In 1983, the percentage of new investment
which could be financed from internal cash generation is projected to be 29%
for SANEPAR, 15% for CORSAN and 14% for CASAN. Assurances were obtained from
the Federal and state governments and BNH that they will support and assist
the SWCs in meeting the revenue covenant (para. 7.14).



- 42 -
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements
7.24      In order to permit the satisfactory monitoring of its investment
program and financing plans, CORSAN, SANEPAR, and CASAN agreed:
(a) to prepare five-year financial projections before March 31
of each year expressed in local currency and UPCs. The projec-
tions would include an income statement, statement of cash flow,
balance sheet, and calculation of the rate base for purposes
of calculating the rate of return;
(b) to establish, not later than June 30, 1980, a system of
monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 10).
Under this system, each SWC would provide a quarterly
progress report which would include:
(i)  progress on the project implementation, giving details
on design completion, physical execution of the
works, and disbursements;
(ii)  statistical data for the number of water and sewer connec-
tions, volume of water produced, volume of water and
sewerage billed, and average tariffs; and
(iii)  preliminary financial statements indicating key operating
and financial ratios separately for water supply and
sewerage; and
(c)  to prepare a report satisfactory to BNH and to the Bank on the
execution and initial operation of the project, not later than
four months after the loan closing date. BNH will be respon-
sible for the preparation and submission to the Bank of the Project
Completion Report on the project within six months of loan closing.
VIII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
8.01      The project represents the least-cost solution to meeting the
projects' major objective of improving the health and environment of the
inhabitants in the three project states. Water supply will be provided to
an additional 1.8 million persons including a substantial proportion of low-
income beneficiaries.  The project includes US$230 million in investments for
environmental improvement through proper collection and disposition of
sewage which will be the first major program being undertaken in sewerage
in the project states. Additional objectives of the project, to be accom-
plished through a technical assistance component of the project, are to
improve the management and technical operations in the project SWCs and
to prepare BNH for the assumption of greater responsibility in project
selection and supervision.



- 43 -
Internal Rate of Return
8.02      Internal rates of return (IRRs) on the SWCs' investment programs in
each state have been calculated using revenues as a proxy for economic benefits.
The investments recognized in the calculation use a shadow exchange rate factor
of 1.3 and the tariffs are those which will result from application of the
Tariff Law and Regulations. For purposes of subproject selection, IRRs are
calculated for all water supply components in accordance with the adopted
criteria (para 6.20). Returns have also been derived for each state's invest-
ments in water supply and water supply and sewerage combined and for the
project overall. This consolidated approach is appropriate as each state
applies a uniform tariff structure for all municipal systems and thus, tariffs
cannot be varied to suit individual investment and cost conditions. A satis-
factory consolidated return indicates roughly that tariffs on average are at
satisfactory levels in terms of resource allocation, even though some compo-
nents, notably sewerage, may have low returns. The internal rate of return
calculations are given in Annex 11 and the results are presented in the
following table:
Table 8.1:   INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN ON THE PROJECT
Total
Description               CORSAN       SANEPAR      CASAN    Project
Water Supply               9%            8%         12%         9%
Water Supply
and Sewerage             7%            6%          7%         7%
8.03      The IRRs on water supply investments for the three states combined
and for the individual states indicate that average water tariffs will gener-
ally be close to long-run average incremental costs estimated on the basis of
the same investment programs (discounted at an estimated opportunity cost
capital of 11%), while sewerage tariffs would be lower. Tariffs on incremental
water consumption (that above the basic 15 m3 block of consumption) exceed the
long-run average incremental cost of water for all three SWCs (Annex 11). The
sewerage returns reflect the existing tariff structure, where the charge for
sewerage is 80% of the water charge. A more cost-related tariff is to be
implemented in the future (para. 7.13) which would likely improve actual
returns on sewerage and the project overall. These internal rates of return
based on revenues understate the real economic return as the benefits exclude
improved health, in particular lower infant mortality, increased labor produc-
tivity, environmental improvements from sewage collection and treatment, and
improved services to existing water consumers. The use of revenues as benefits
under the SWCs progressive tariff structure also understates the benefits of
supplying water to the poor where the initial increment of low-price water



- 44 -
ensures most of the health benefits from an improved supply to low-income
consumers who would benefit from a substantial share of project investments.
8.04      The principal adverse factors which could affect the expected rates
of return are an increase in construction costs and a reduction in sales growth
below the levels forecasted. Given the status of project engineering, where
50% of the design is completed and cost estimates are considered appropriate,
it is deemed unlikely that actual costs on the total project (expressed in
constant prices) would exceed the forecast by more than 8%. This would reduce
the overall combined rate of return from 7% to 6%. It is not considered
probable that the growth in sales would be more than 12% below the forecast.
Were such a lower growth pattern to materialize, the total combined rate of
return would decline from 7% to 5%.
Design and Selection Criteria
8.05      The overall investment programs of the three SWCs are consistent
with PLANASA objectives for the sector, including the provision of water
supply to the low-income population. The investment programs are financially
viable, and as a result of cross-subsidization in the tariff structures, water
is affordable to the low-income population. The individual subprojects in
each state represent least-cost solutions and are in conformity with BNH and
SWC design standards (para. 6.19).
Population Served
8.06      On an overall basis it is estimated that the project will provide
water supply to 1.8 million new consumers and increase urban water supply
service levels for the SWCs from 75% in 1979 to 83% in 1983. The project will
also improve service to about 3.0 million of the SWCs' existing consumers.
The project will extend sewerage services to about 0.9 million persons and
increase urban sewerage service levels for the SWCs from 10% in 1979 to 20% in
1983. The facilities constructed for both water and sewerage will allow for
continued expansion of connections throughout the 1980 decade.
Affordability of Project Services
8.07      The National Tariff Law specifies that the minimum monthly charge for
water should not exceed 35% of one ORTN (Cr$127 or US$4.95), and the combined
charge for water and sewerage should not exceed 50% of one ORTN (Cr$182 or
US$7.09). The existing monthly charges for minimum consumption of water range
from Cr$41 to Cr$72, and are therefore well within Government guidelines.
These low tariffs are possible because of the cross-subsidization provided in
the existing tariff structures.  Since approximately 70% of the urban poor earn
more than one minimum wage 1/ per family, it may be concluded that water will
be provided to most families at affordable prices. In the case of new low-income
consumers, water connection charges are financed interest free or at low rates
of interest over a 24-month period which makes connections affordable to most of
the urban poor.
1/   In April 1979, the minimum monthly salary in the Southern States was
Cr$ 2,107 (US$85.67).



- 45 -
Impact on Poverty Groups
8.08      The direct impact of the project on the poverty group, defined as
families earning three minimum salaries or less 1/, was estimated by cal-
culating the proportion of urban poor in the incremental population served
by major subprojects representing about 50% of total project cost. In
1979, of the 6.1 million persons served by the SWCs, about 3.3 million (54%)
were from the poverty group and the overall service level for this group
was 57%. Of the 1.8 million water supply beneficiaries of the project,
about 1.1 million will be urban poor thereby increasing the urban poor
service levels to 71% in 1983.
8.09      Sewerage services for the urban poor are virtually non-existent
in the project states. The project investments for the most part represent
the initial sewer programs for the project cities and as such will cover
commercial areas and those with high population densities. These areas
are generally not populated with urban poor which are more often dispersed
around the periferies of the cities. Thus, the project sewerage beneficiaries
among the urban poor are only 139,000 out of 0.9 million total, sufficient
to provide only a 2% sewerage service level to the urban poor in 1983. Because
individual house connections and waterborne sewerage service to the urban poor
may not be affordable to some consumers, BNH agreed to continue its studies on
the low-cost technology options to extend services to low-income areas where
conventional systems are not technically feasible or economically affordable by
the users. The Bank is providing technical assistance to BNH for these studies
through the UNDP Globol Program on Low Cost Water and Sanitation Techniques
involving several countries, BNH also agreed to make the results of these
studies available to the Bank for comments, together with proposals to extend
their results to the project states.
8.10      It is estimated that investments directly related to urban poor
services would amount to US$159 million, equivalent to 36% of project costs.
The urban poor component of the Bank loan would thus be US$47 million.
Project Risks
8.11      The proposed project involves the administrative risks associated
with the carrying out of complex and large investment programs by the SWCs.
Not all of the project components are yet firmly identified, nor would all of
them be subject to prior appraisal by Bank staff. However, the project execu-
tion experience of the SWCs indicates that they have the capacity to implement
the project and there are no financial constraints. The subproject preparation
and eligibility criteria developed should ensure the soundness of the invest-
ments undertaken.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained as follows:
(a) from the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) that it will:
(i) implement a technical assistance program for S/SFS (paras. 6.07
and 6.08);
1/   US$257 monthly in April 1979.



- 46 -
(ii) ensure that sufficient local currency funds are made
available to the SWCs for completion of the project on
schedule (para. 6.13);
(iii) ensure that subprojects will be selected in accordance with
agreed upon criteria (para. 6.20);
(iv) submit to the Bank audited financial statements and the report
of the external auditor within four months of the close of
the fiscal year (para 7.06);
(v) take whatever measures are required to ensure that the project
SWCs maintain revenues at levels sufficient to comply with
the revenue covenant (para 7.23);
(vi) be responsible for the preparation and submission to the Bank
of the Project Completion Report on the project within six
months of loan closing (para 7.24); and
(vii) continue studies on the low-cost technology options to extend
services to low-income areas and make the studies available to
the Bank for comments, together with proposals to extend their
results to the project states (para. 8.09).
(b) from the State Governments of Parana, Sta. Catarina and Rio Grande
do Sul that they will:
(i) ensure that sufficient local currency funds for the
project will be made available to the SWCs for completion
of the project (para. 6.13); and
(ii) take whatever measures are required to ensure that the respec-
tive SWCs maintain revenues at levels sufficient to comply
with the revenue covenant (para. 7.23).
(c)  from State Water Companies:
(i) CORSAN will establish and maintain a properly functioning
audit office by December 31, 1981 (para. 4.11);
(ii) SWCs will have their accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and will submit to the Bank no later than
April 30 of each subsequent year, starting with accounts for
fiscal year 1979, certified copies of the audited financial
statements and an audit report which will include a statement
on compliance with Bank loan covenants (para. 4.12);
(iii) SWCs will prepare before December 31, 1980 production metering
plans, including implementation schedules acceptable to the
Bank, and will implement such plans in accordance with the
agreed upon schedules (para. 6.06);



- 47 -
(iv)  SWCs, with the assistance of BNH, will implement technical
assistance programs under conditions and schedules to be agreed
upon during negotiations (para. 6.07);
(v) SWCs will ensure that subprojects will be selected in accordance
with agreed upon criteria (para. 6.20);
(vi)  SWCs will prepare and make available to the Bank not later
than 60 days prior to the issue of first tender or
prequalification documents a general procurement notice
satisfactory to the Bank. Such a notice will be annually
updated as long as any goods or works remain to be procured
(para. 6.22);
(vii)  SWCs will prepare proposals for revision of sewerage tariffs
for Bank review not later than January 31, 1981, and will
implement new sewerage tariffs prior to January 31, 1982
(para. 7.13);
(viii)  SWCs will undertake whatever measures are required to ensure
that revenues will be maintained at levels sufficient
to comply with the provisions of the National Tariff Law
and Regulations(para. 7.14);
(ix)  SWCs will submit annually, not later than March 31, updated
five-year financial projections satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 7.24);
(x) SWCs will establish and implement, not later than June 30,
1980, a system of monitoring indicators and quarterly progress
reports covering project implementation, operations, and
financial performance  (para. 7.24); and
(xi)  SWCs will submit to BNH not later than four months after
loan closing a report satisfactory to the Bank on the execution
and initial operation of the project (para. 7.24).
9.02      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$130.0 million.
The loan would be for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of three
years.



BRAZIL -SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CORSAN - ORGANIZATION CHART DECEMBER 1978
General Assembly
Administrative Council
.  Board of Directors
General    Ogsato  Pbilanl
Secretary J                                             ieto                    
President                                                                                                                    41
Adviser  Adviser        & Planning          Reisantios          Controlin
Technical Director                                                   General Dreco
Adviser  A         Adviser             Adviser
Technical              Industrial             General Coordinator                  Administrative                  Financial
Superision              Division                                                      L         J |i iv
Division         Dvisonof Sanitation Units                                     Division                        v Sion
World Bank - 20563



BRAZIL -SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SANEPAR - ORGANIZATION CHART DECEMBER 1978
Planning                                                                 Cabinet
Administration                                            Board of Directors                                           Fiscal Council
Council
Director President
I   Organization                                                                                                          L
Deve lopment            r 
Data Processing       _Relations                                                                                          Adviser
Programmingive                                                                                                               Finance
Director                                                                                                                Director
|  Administrative    l                                                                                                                                            |     Financial
Coordination                                                                                                                                                         Coordination
Resources   ProperTy                ~~~~Services
ch T chiai                                                                                                                   Operations
Drector                                                                                                                       Director
| Coordination                                                                                                                                                            Coor
I   Engineering    I   r    Water       l    l    Sewerage                                                             South                                                         North
|    & Design  l   l      Works        l   l       Works                                                              Region                                                       Region
World Bank -20560



BRAZIL-SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CASAN - ORGANIZATION CHART DECEMBER 1978
|  General                                            m
AssemblYV
Engineering  Regional   Operation             Fin~~    ~~~~~Ance i   Cmmerial                 umanMateisalsAmntrte 
& Works             & Maintenance                                                         Resources    S~~~~~~L;.ncl  C uncily        apr 
r                                                                                        -
|Board of Directors|
| Peient       lr
|& Financial 
|  Legal I          
Tcnical                                             Finan Cial                                           Administlrative,
ei cor                                               Dieco                                                  Dirr cto
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uc .   .pp.    ,
WVorld Bank -20562



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SERVICE LEVELS IN SOUTHERN STATES
(1978)
Parana        Santa Catarina   Rio G. do Sul
Urban Centers                             (SANEPAR)           (CASAN)          (CORSAN)
Total state urban centers a/                 674                398               720
Under the SWCs                               167                163               232
Under the municipalities                     145 b/              19                21
Under others                                   4                 18                 1
Served with water:
Under the SWCs                             167                100               205
Under the municipalities                    84                 19                21
Under others                                 4                 18                 1
Served with sewerage:
Under the SWCs                              28                  1                18
Under the municipalities                     7                  1                 5
Under others                                 1                 --1
Population
State urban population (000's)            3,680              1,800              4,715
Served with water:  (000's)               2,390              1,026              3,820
65%                57%               81%
Served with sewerage: (000's)               650                  72               940
18%                 4%               20%
Population under SWCs                     2,949               1,522             3,281
80%                85%               70%
Served with water: (000's)                2,204                 912             2,325
75%                60%               71%
Served with sewerage (000's)                464                  48               215
16%                 3%                7%
House Connections (SCWs)
Number of water connections
(000's)                  380                150               465
Number of metered connections
(000's)                  372                107                265
% of metered connections                      98                 71                57
Number of sewer connections (000's)           80                  8                43
a/ Includes municipalities and "vilas" and "povoados" which are subsidiary communities.
b/ Eighty-four have signed agreements to enter SANEPAR but are still operated by
the municipalities.
c/ Includes population served in 84 municipalities mentioned in footnote b/.



- 52 -                    ANNEX 3
Page I of 5
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description Of Physical Works Under The Project
(1980-82)
1.   State of Parana - SANEPAR
A.   Water Supply
(i) Extensions and improvements in the water supply system for
Curitiba comprising the following:
-    increase of raw water transmission capacity for
Iguacu subsystem of 750 1/sec by the construction
of a 1,730 m and 800 mm in diameter transmission
main;
-    construction of about 8,500 m of treated water
transmission mains from the Iguacu treatment plant
to the Corte Branco and Cajuru reservoirs;
-    improvements and extensions in the Iguacu treatment
plant to reach a final capacity of 3,000 I/sec;
-    increase in storage of about 15,000 m3 in Portao and
Merces and construction of two new tanks totalling
15,000 m3 more;
-    construction of the intake works with a capacity of
1,500 1/sec (of which 500 1/sec would be used in the
first stage) at Passauna subsystem;
-    construction of 1,800 m of raw water transmission main
700 mm in diameter between Passauna and the treatment
plant;
-    upgrading of the Passauna treatment plant to increase
its capacity to 0.5 m3/sec;
-    construction of treated water transmission mains with
a total length of 6,600 m in diameters varying from
600 to 800 mm;
-    increase in pumping capacity of the Iguacu and Passauna
pumping stations totalling 3,100 cv;
-    construction of about 450 km of networks; and
-    construction of approximately 19,000 new metered house
connections;



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
(ii) Major expansion and improvements in four medium-size
cities as follows:
Londrina:     -  production capacity
including treatment         2,400 1/sec
-  raw and treated water
transmission mains
450 mm in diameter         18,600 m
-  distribution networks            150 km
-  house connections             8,000
Cascavel:     -  production and
treatment facilities          445 1/sec
-  raw and treated water
transmission mains
400-700 mm in diameter    12,920 m
-  storage                       7,200 m3
-  distribution networks            164 km
-  house connections             9,500
Ponta Grossa: -  production and
treatment facilities         600 1/sec
-  raw and treated water
transmission mains
600 mm in diameter          8,000 m
-  storage                      10,000 m3
-  networks                         200 km
-  house connections             10,000
Umuarama:     -  production and
treatment capacity            80 I/sec
-  storage                        2,300 m3
-  networks                          83 km
-  house connections              4,000
(iii) Extension and improvements of water supply systems in
another 21 medium-size communities (list in project file);
(iv) Construction of new water supply systems and improvements
and extensions for some 135 small-size communities;
(v) Preparation of a water and sewerage master plan for
Curitiba; and
(vi) Execution of a production metering program.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
B.   Sewerage and Water Pollution Control
(i)  Construction in Curitiba of approximately 400 km of
networks, 27 km of main sewers, and increase of the
sewage treatment plant to 1.5 m3/sec;
(ii)  Construction of some 23,000 house connections in
Curitiba;
(iii)  Major expansions and improvements in four medium-size
cities as follows:
Londrina:         -    networks (150-700 mm)         385 km
-    interceptors (150-2,000 mm)  22 km
-    force mains (500 mm)        1,420 m
-    pumping stations              750 cv
-    treatment facilities          520 1/sec
-    house connections          36,500
Cascavel:         -    networks (150-600 mm)         150 km
-    interceptors                   18 km
-    pumping stations              350 cv
-    force mains (200-250 mm)  4,400 m
-    house connections          10,000
Ponta Grossa:    -    networks                       230 km
-    interceptors                   40 km
-    treatment facilities          425 1/sec
-    house connections          15,300
Umuarama:         -    networks                       70 km
-    treatment facilities          135 1/sec
-    house connections          60,000
(iv) Construction of new systems, extensions and improvements in
other medium-size cities (Arapongas, Apucarana and Guarapuava).
2.   State of Santa Catarina - CASAN
A.   Water Supply
(i)  Construction of approximately 100 km of distribution networks
and some 9,500 house connections in Florianopolis;
(ii)  Improvements and extensions in the water systems of
30 medium-size cities (list in project file);
(iii)  Construction of water supply systems, extensions, and
improvements in 40 small-size communities;



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
(iv) Preparation of a water master plan for Florianopolis; and
(v) Implementation of a production metering program.
B.   Sewerage and Water Pollution Control
(i) Construction of the first stage of a sewerage system for
the capital city of Florianopolis comprising the following:
-    networks (150-400 mm)                           154 km
-    interceptors (400-1,000 mm)                      15 km
-    pumping Stations (8)                          1,500 cv
-    force mains (150-700 mm)                      7,500 m
-    force main to treatment (600-1,000 mm)    12,600 m
-    stabilization ponds                           1.9 x i03 m3
-    house connections                            10,000
(ii) Construction of the first sanitary sewage collection and
disposal system for the industrial city of Joinville
comprising:
-    networks (150-300 mm)                           187 km
-    interceptors (400-1,000 mm)                      17 km
-    pumping stations                              1,250 cv
-    force main (1,000 mm)                         7,200 m
-    stabilization pond                             1.0 x 103 m3
-    house connections                            14,000
(iii) Construction or improvements in the sewerage systems of
4 medium-size cities.
3.   Rio Grande do Sul:  CORSAN
A.   Water Supply
(i) Improvements and extension in 60 medium-size cities, including
the following:
-    construction of some 120 drilled wells
-    increase in total treatment capacity by about 2.0 m3/sec
-    increase in storage tanks totalling about 50,000 m3
-    construction of some 3,000 km of distribution networks
-    installation of approximately 110,000 house connections
(ii) Construction of water supply systems in about 35 small-size
communities. Designs, based on standardized projects, are
ready for ten of the systems; the rest will be completed
under an annual schedule; and
(iii) Implementation of a production metering program.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
B.   Sewerage and Water Pollution Control
(i) Construction of sewerage systems in six of the major medium-
size cities, including approximately 440 km of networks,
41 km of interceptors, treatment facilities, and around
50,000 house connections;
(ii) Construction or extension of about 70 km of sewerage
networks and extension of treatment facilities in another
five medium-size cities where sewerage systems already
exist; and
(iii) Extension of 180 km of sewerage networks and house
connections in about 11 medium-size cities.



- 57 -                   ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Program to S/SFS
A.   General Objective
1.   The objective of the technical assistance program is to help the
BNH-S/SFS unit to introduce the necessary modifications to its
current project evaluation and supervisory procedures and informa-
tion systems and to its overall operational practices in order to:
(a) ensure that consistent procedures and appropriate technical,
economic, and financial criteria are followed in project
analysis;
(b) simplify current procedures and practices for supervision
and control of SWC operations;
(c) reduce the workload for data processing and analysis at
S/SFS' central level;
(d) expedite the decision making process at BNH-S/SFS' central
and regional level;
(e) properly monitor the implementation of PLANASA at the
state and country levels;
(f) follow up the SWCs' performance in the financial, managerial,
operational, and physical expansion areas; and
(g) enable S/SFS to produce the necessary information for other
external users such as high level BNH management, other
government agencies, and international organizations involved
in sector development in a timely manner.
B.   Specific Tasks
2.   To attain the objectives mentioned above, the consultants, together
with the S/SFS staff assigned to this task, should:
(a)  review the current organization and distribution of
functions in S/SFS;
(b) review the adequacy of data presented with loan requests
from SWCs and project analysis criteria and procedures
used by S/SFS;
(c) review current procedures to gather, process, and analyze
information;
(d) identify the sources and users, present or potential, of
S/SFS information;



-58 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
(e) assess the quality and quantity of information currently
being produced for S/SFS by the SWCs, and by SISFS
regional and central offices;
(f) carry out a survey of the users to ascertain what is
considered necessary or desirable information, including
its degree of processing, to be produced or stored by
the agents mentioned in (d) above;
(g) on the basis of (e) and (f) above propose an information
flow system including for each step:
(i) required input;
(ii) degree of processing;
(iii) required output; and
(iv) destination of output.
The consultants should clearly identify the link between the
decisions or actions to be taken by each user and the input he
receives and requires from the system, and the output the user
produces for it;
(h) review the set of monitoring indicators established by S/SFS
to reflect progress on SWC projects and on the overall operating
and financial situation of the SWCs;
(i) propose the necessary modifications to the current systems
and procedures and a schedule to implement the new system,
including any advisable organizational changes within S/SFS;
(j) design or adapt appropriate forms, when necessary or
convenient, to record and handle the information aiming
at maximum uniformity and standardization; and
(k) prepare users' manuals for these forms, if necessary, or
adapt the existing ones.
3.   The consultants should also analyze the viability of computerizing
the system as much as possible.
4.   At BNH's option the consultants will assist BNH in the preparation
of the required software and in its implementation.
5.   Special training will be provided by the consultants to S/SFS
staff to familiarize them with the modified systems.
6.   The consultants should coordinate the system with that of the
information systems for the SWCs, currently being developed by BNH
with the assistance of SATECIA. They should also use the existing
forms and procedures where appropriate.
7.   The proposed system should be flexible enough to be expanded and,
as far as possible, be independent of the available hardware
facilities. Although the system will be geared to S/SFS operations,
it should be designed for coupling to an eventual global information
system in BNH.



BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECTED ANNUAL INVESTNENTS FOR SANEPAR, CASAN, AND CORSAN (1980-82)
DESCRIPTION                                1980        1981        1982 a/    TOTAL           1980        1981        1982        TOTAL
SANEPAR                                    ---- --Thousands of UPCs -----------               ----------Millions of US$--------------
Water Supply                             2021        2671        1900        6592           30.3       40.1         28.5        98.9
Sewerage                                 1175        2018        1902        5095           17.6       30.3         28.5        76.4
Total Construction Costs                 3196        4689        3802       11687           47.9       70.4         57.0       175.3
Engineering and Supervision               128         188         152         468            1.9        2.8          2.3         7.0
Base Cost                           3324        4877        3954       12155           49.8       73.2          59.3       182.3
Physical Contingencies                    332         488         395        1215            5.0        7.3          5.9        18.2
Price Contingencies                       255         751        1000        2006            3.8       11.3         15.0        30.1
TOTAL (SANEPAR)                     3911        6116        5349       15376            58.6      91.8          80.2       230.6
CASAN
Water Supply                              587         792         609        1988            8.8       11.9          9.1        29.8                                u
Sewerage                                  802        1270        1831        3903           12.0       19.0         27.5        58.5                                0
Total Construction Costs                 1389        2062        2440        5891           20.8       30.9         36.6        88.3
Engineering and Supervision               111         165         195         471            1.7        2.5          2.9         7.1
Base Cost                            1500        2227       2635         6362           22.5       33.4         39.5        95.4
Physical Contingencies                    150         223         264         637            2.2        3.3          4.0         9.5
Price Contingencies                       116         355         652        1123            1.7        5.3          9.8        16.8
TOTAL (CASAN )                      1766       2805        3551        8122             26.4     42.0          53.3       121.7
CORSAN                                      ===
Water Supply                             1660        1948        1820        5428            24.9      29.2         27.3        81.4
Sewerage                                 1233        1654        1367        4254            18.5      24.8         21.4        64.7
Total Construction Costs                 2893        3602        3187        9682            43.4      54.0         48.7       146.1
Engineering & Supervision                 145         180         159         484             2.2       2.7          2.4         7.3
Base Cost                                3038        3782        3346       10166            45.6      56.7         51.1       153.4
Physical Contingencies                    304         378         335        1017             4.6       5.7          5.0        15.3
Price Contingencies                       234         582         810        1626             3.5       8.7         12.1        24.3
TOTAL (CORSAN)                    3576        4742        4491       12809             53.7      71.1         68.2       193.0
TOTAL GENERAL                     9253       13663       13391       36307            138.7    204.9         201.7       545.5
a/ 1 UPC = US$15.00.
NOTES: (1) 1 UPC = US$15.00.
(2) Base costs at June 1979 price level.



ANNEX 6
-60 -                                                Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AMD SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
1980    1981    1982    Total        1980    1981    1982    Total
Description                                                       (thousands of UPCs)                    (millions of US$)
SANEPAR
Water Supply
Major Subprojects                                          881    1461      743     3085       13.2    21.9    11.1       46.2
Mediun Size Cities                                         265     340      400     1005        4.0      5.1     6.0      15.1
Small Communities                                          285     275      165      725        4.3     4.1      2.5      10.9
House Connections                                           40      94       50      184        0.6      1.4     0.8       2.8
Master Plan                                                 15                         15       0.2                        0.2
Metering                                                    30      83       40      153        0.4      1.2     0.6       2.2
Subtotal Water                                          1516    2253    1398      5167       22.7    33.7    21.0      77.4
Sewerage
Major Subprojects                                          875    1761    1094      3730       13.1    26.4    16.4       55.9
Medium Size Cities                                         100     120      300      520        1.5      1.8     4.5       7.8
Subtotal Sewerage                                       975    1881    1394      4250       14.6    28.2    20.9      63.7
Total Construction                                 2491    4134    2792       9417      37.3    62.0    41.9    141.2
Engineering and Supervision (4%)                         87     165     112       364        1.3     2.5      1.7      5.5
Base Cost                                          2578    4299    2904       9781       38.6    64.5    43.6    146.7
Physical Contingencies (10%)                            260     430     290       980        3.9     6.4      4.4     14.7
Subtotal                                              4     T729    3 194    107 l         7     70.9    48.0      61
Price Escalation (7%)                                  199      662     702      1563        3.0     9.9    10.5      23.4
Total SANEPAR               3037    5391    3896    12324        45.5    80.8    58,5    184.8
CASAN
Water Supply
Major Subprojects                                           84     173      167      424        1.3     2.6      2.5       6.4
Medium Sice Cities                                         130     180      120      430        2.0     2.7      1.8      6.5
Small Communities                                          125     269      100      494        1.9     4.0      1.5      7.4
Master Plan                                                 45      20                65        0.7     0.3               1.0
Metering                                                     s5     30       15       60        0.2     0.4      0.2      0.8
Subtotal Water                                         399      672     402      1473        6.1    10.0      6.0     22.1
Sewerage
Major Subprojects                                          802    1029    1153      2984       12.0    15.4    17.3      44.7
Medium Size Cities                                                 145      200      345                2.2      3.0      5.2
Subtotal Sewerage                                      802    1174    1353       3329       12.0    17.6    20.3      49.9
Total Construction                                 1201    1846    1755       4802       18.1    27.6    26.3      72.0
Engineering and Supervision (8%)                         96     148     140       384        1.4     2.2      2.1      5.7
base Cost                                          1297    1994    1895       5186      19.5    29.8    28.4       77.7
Physical Contingencies (10%)                            130     199     189       518        1.9     3.0      2.8      7.7
Subtotal                                           1427    2193    2084       5704      21.4    32.8    31.2       85.4
Price Escalation (7%)                                  100      307     458       865        1.5     4.6     6.9      13.0
Total CASAN                1527    2500    2542       6569      22.9    37.4    38.1       98.4
CORSAN
Water Supply
Major Subprojects                                          555     842      570     1967        8.3    12.6      8.6     29.5
Medium Size Cities                                         285     485      484     1254        4.3     7.3      7.3     18.9
Small Communities                                           55     127       55      237        0.8     1.9      0.8      3.5
House Connections                                           84     161       77      322        1.3     2.4      1.1      4.8
Subtotal Water                                         979    1615    1186       3780       14.7    24.2    17.8      56.7
Sewerage
Major Subprojects                                         1093    1296    1129      3518       16.4    19.4    16.9      52.7
Medium Size Cities                                          80     235      105      420        1.2     3.5      1.6       6.3
House Connections                                            3      74       46      123        0.1     1.1      0.7      1.9
Subtotal Sewerage                                      1176    1605    1280      4061       17.7    24.0    19.2      60.9
Total Construction                                 2155    3220    2466       7841      32.4    48.2    37.0    117.6
Engineering and Supervision (5%)                        108     161     123       392        1.6     2.4      1.8      5.8
Base Cost                                          2263    3381    2589       8233      34.0    50.6    38.8    123.4
Physical Contingencies (10%)                            226     338     259       823        3.4     5.1      3.9     12.4
Subtotal                                           2489    3719    2848       9056      37.4    55.7    42.7    135.8
Price Escalation (7%)                                   174     521     626      1321        2.6     7.8      9.4     19.8
Total COESAN               2663    4240    3474    10377        40.0    63.5    52.1    155.6
BN' Technical Assistance                                    13                        13        0.2                       0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     7240  12131      9912    29283      108.6  181,7   148.7      439.0
Notes: 1) Engineering and supervision costs for SANEPAR and CORSAN are 4% and 5% of construction costs respectively, due to
the existence of standarized projects and relatively advanced engineering work.  For CASAN 8% was used due to the
need for technical assistance and more complex construction problems in Joinville.
2) Physical contingencies average 10% of base cost for the same reasons in I above.
3) Major subprojects are:   SAMEPAN         CANAN           CORSAN
Curitiba       florianopolis  Canoas-Niter-i
Lodrina       Joinville       Nove Hamburgo
Ponta Grossa  Lages           Santa Maria
Cascavel      Canoinhas       Capao da Canoa
Umuarama                      Passo Fundo
Tramandai



ANNEX 6
- 61 -                                   Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FOREIGN AND LOCAL COST ESTIMATES
(US$ Millions)
-         -- Costs      …
Description lOfl                                    Local        Foreign       Total
SANEPAR
Water Supply                                       54.5          23.0         77.5
Sewerage                                           43.3          20.5         63.8
Total Construction                               97.8          43.5        141.3
Engineering and Supervision                       5.3           0.1          5.4
Base Cost                                       103.1          43.6        146.7
Physical Contingencies                           10.4           4.3         14.7
Subtotal                                        113.5          47.9        161.4
Price Escalation                                 16.4           7.0         23.4
Total                                         129.9          54.9        184.8
CASAN
Water Supply                                       15.9           6.2         22.1
Sewerage                                           35.0          14.9         49.9
Total Construction                               50.9          21.1         72.0
Engineering and Supervision                       5.0           0.8          5.8
Base Cost                                        55.9          21.9         77.8
Physical Contingencies                            5.5           2.3          7.8
Subtotal                                         61.4          24.2         85.6
Price Escalation                                  9.2           3.8         13.0
Total                                          70.6          28.0         98.6
CORSAN
Water Supply                                       38.9          17.8         56.7
Sewerage                                           41.5          19.4         60.9
Total Construction                               80.4          37.2        117.6
Engineering and Supervision                       5.7           0.2          5.9
Base Cost                                        86.1          37.4        123.5
Physical Contingencies                            8.6           3.7         12.3
Subtotal                                         94.7          41.1        135.8
Price Escalation                                 13.7           5.9         19.6
Total                                         108.4          47.0        155.4
BNH Technical Assistance                              0.1           0.1          0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            309.0         130.0        439.0



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL -SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE FOR MAJOR SUBPROJECTS
JUNE 1979
1979                    1980                     1981                    1982
SANEPAR                                                                     -                       _  _    -
WATER SUPPLY             .....
-Curitiba                                              rA   -             . z_.._   _
-Londrina                ........... -..
SEWERAGE
-Curitiba               ....    .. ..... .*___,_._,.,_._. _._
-Londrina                                                     .         ........ ....
-Cascavel                           ..........
-Ponta Grossa                       .........
-Umuarama                         .  .     .....
CASAN                                                 _I           . _I_                   _
WATER SUPPLY
-Lages               ... . ...     _,._._._^,_......................... 
- Canoinhas                         ....
SEWERAGE
-Florianopolis          .....
-Joinville                         ..........
CORSAN
WATER SUPPLY
-Canoas Niteroi        .... .....
-Novo Hamburgo         .... .....
SEWERAGE                                       4        - _
-Canoas-Niteroi         ....              ..........
-Novo Hamburgo          .... .. ..-
-Capao Da Canoa                                     .... ._
- Sta Maria              ....                            .......... 
-Passo Fundo                        .......... .           I I  F                          -            -  
| -Tramandai                   i...... t..,                                           4.     _     .  
. .Design and Revision by O.T.
_  _   _- -BNH Approval
'a._,_,- Bidding
_ . _  .-   Supply of Materials and Equipment
Construction                                                                             World Bank - 20564



- 63 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Disbursement Procedures
Introduction
1.        In the four approved and effective loans to BNH for water supply and
sewerage projects in five states (Table 2.1), disbursements are made against
statements of expenditure. This is the only practical procedure under the
circumstances where the loan is made to the financial intermediary, where
there are a large number of subprojects financed, and where contracts for
both supply and construction are awarded to local contractors. The present
disbursement procedure is consistent with BNH's procedures, enables a proper
control over Bank disbursements, is working satisfactorily in ongoing
projects, and will accordingly be adopted for the Southern States Project.
The BNH financing mechanism and the Bank reimbursement procedures are
described below.
BNH/SWC Financing Contract
2.        When any subproject foreseen in the Loan Agreement has been
approved by BNH, and the Bank if over the free limit, the submitting SWC
requests a PLANASA financing contract for that subproject (it may combine
two or more subprojects in a single request). This request (solicitacao
de financiamento) is submitted to BNH's financial agent, which is the
state bank in each state and also handles the state FAE. The financial
agent then submits the request to BNH and to FAE, and formal loan agreements
are prepared establishing terms, total amount of the loan, amount of the
advance payment, and repayment terms. This contract is between BNH and
the financial agent and specifies the SWC and the subproject or subprojects
for which the funds are provided. The financial agent, in turn, makes
identical contracts with the SWC. For control purposes, BNH establishes a
financial contract number (CTN) for each contract and all subsequent payment
requests must bear that number. Thus, the financing for the subproject(s)
has been established as in the schematic drawing below:
BNH |  (50% of total)
I           ~~~Financial_
Request  AgWC
ReutFA  (50% of total)
; -  Fontract A            Contract B
Financial                     nancial
Contract          |



- 64 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Borrower's (BNH) Expenditure Control Procedure
3.        Expenditure control for BNH is exercised in the SWC as
follows:
(a) bidding documents and final contracts for civil works,
equipment and services to be rendered for the project are
examined by the SWC to verify that the contracts do, in
fact, pertain to the subproject. The technical consultants
of BNH (OTs) review all invoices submitted against those
contracts to establish their validity as to percentage
of completion, delivery of materials, and also monitor
the construction of all subprojects; and
(b) the financial agent verifies the authenticity of documenta-
tion and verifies paid invoices against advance payment
requests.
BNH Disbursements
4.        Actual disbursements on the part of BNH are in two parts, an
initial advance (stipulated in the financing contract) and subsequent pay-
ments until the project is completed. Subsequent payments may be made
against paid or unpaid invoices. A description of these systems follows.
5.        An amount up to 20% of the total expenditure may be disbursed
in advance of expenditure. To obtain this advance payment, the SWC submits
a letter of request to the financial agent. The financial agent prepares
a request to BNH, attaching the SWC's letter and submits it to BNH for
payment. Based on this, BNH emits a payment order (Autorizacao de Pagamento
para Aplicacao), which is paid to the financial agent who credits it to
the SWC's account after deducting the administrative and technical service
fees. The advance payment is recovered by deducting from each subsequent
payment the same percentage that the advance represented to the total
contract. In the event that the subproject(s) is (are) terminated without
expending the total amount of financing, any advance payment remaining is
simply added to the loan total for amortization. In the event of overruns,
the advance is automatically liquidated and overruns are financed by a
supplementary financial contract.
6.        The SWC has two payment options.  Under the first alternative,
the SWC submits a list of invoices that it has paid, together with the
invoices, to the technical agent of BNH for review. The OT approves (or
rejects) each individual invoice, correcting the listing for rejections,
and returns all documents to the SWC. The SWC then submits the approved
listing to the financial agent who verifies that they were paid and then
submits the list of paid invoices to BNH and FAE for reimbursement.
Under the second alternative the procedure is identical except that a
list of unpaid invoices is submitted and the request is one for an advance



- 65 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
payment, supported by the list of paid invoices to prove that the previous
month's advance was used to pay the invoices for which the advance was requested.
Processing of both lists is identical, and they are processed as a single
submission.
7.        On receipt of the verified list of paid invoices from the financial
agent, BNH issues a payment order for 50% of the value of the request to which
the list of paid invoices is attached. This document is approved by S/SFS,
and then routed to BNH's Finance Department for the payment authorization and
to have funds transferred to the financial agent. Administrative and technical
service fees are deducted. The financial agent then credits the appropriate
account of the SWC.
Basis of Transactions between BNH, the Final User and the Bank
8.        The basis of project approval, the financial contracts, and BNH
disbursements is the UPC (Unidade Padrao de Capital). The UPC is a monetary
unit which is adjusted every three months in accordance with the percentage
increase granted to Federal Government Bonds (ORTN). All disbursement requests
by the SWCs, final contract settlements, and payments of interest and principal
are stated in terms of UPC at the conversion rate to the cruzeiro in effect in
the month in which the SWC makes the request. BNH submits to the Bank requests
for reimbursements for expenditures on approved subprojects (CTNs) supported
by the listing of paid invoices (or unpaid invoices as the case may be). The
Bank reimburses BNH the agreed upon disbursement percentages at the official
rate of exchange (established by the Banco Central do Brazil) between the
cruzeiros disbursed by BNH to the SWCs and the US dollar on the date of
reimbursement (any currencies other than US dollars are converted to dollars
as per IBRD practice).
Evaluation
9.        The disbursement procedure to be adopted is consistent with BNH's
internal procedures and is working satisfactorily. BNH through its OTs and
auditing staff exercises satisfactory control over subproject implementation
and over disbursements to contractors. The accounting procedures followed
are straightforward and the records will be available for supervision
missions to verify expenditures on selected projects. Furthermore, under
the loan the independent auditor of the SWCs will be required to certify
that the disbursement procedures are properly being followed by the SWC.



- 66 -
BRAZIL                                                  ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
SOUTBERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
BALANCE SHEETS
(Us$ Million)
AUDITED
Year Ending December 31                           1971        1972       1973        1974        1975       1976       1977       1978
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                                  4.4        9.6         6.6         8.2        9.6         6.4      23.2         51.6
Treasury bonds                                 73.3       56.7        56.3        92.6      121.9        36.3      32.5        190.1
Receivable from loans I/                         --      160.0       195.0      418.0       420.8       284.4     975.1      1,171.4
Other accounts                                  5.7         1.1        0.9         0.9        1.2         2.1      36.5         27.7
Sub-total                                  83.4      227.4       258.6      519.7       553.5       329.2   1,067.3      1,440.8
Long-term Receivables
Loans                                       1,545.3    2,144.2    3,131.7    4,176.5    5,461.4    7,246.1   8,655.9    10,747.2
Treasury bands                                203.8      528.1       761.1    1,062.3    1,120.0    1,048.8       970.7      1,099.2
Mortgages                                     249.8         7.3        0.8         0.4          --         --         --
Other investments                              15.2        18.8       40.3       113.1       49.4        40.4     156.3        143.7
Collecting agents - INPS                        7.7         2.8        2.3         0.9         --          --         --
Property for resale                             5.0        10.3       12.9        16.8       20.5        15.1       8.3          5.4
Housing loans in liquidation                     --          __         __          -_      287.9       365.4     286.7        221.6
Other accounts                                  1.6        3.9         6.1         8.3        8.4         9.0       7.5          5.4
Sub-total                              26.4fj    2,715.4    3             5           6,947.0    8,724.9 10,085.4   12,2222.
Fixed Assets
Land and buildings                             14.0        19.0       22.9        25.3       39.1        40.5      43.2         46.8
Equipment and installations                     1.8         2.1        2.8         3.2        3.5         4.0       4.6          5.6
Other fixed assets                              0.6         1.2        1.6         1.9        2.2         2.7       3.2         3.4
Sub-total                                  16.6       22.3        27.3       30.4        44.8       47.2       51.0        55.8
Accumulated depreciation                       (1.4)       (2.2)      (3.4)       (4-4)      (5.9)       (8.1)    (10.5)       (13.0
Sub-total                                  15.2       20.1        23.9       26.0        38.9        39.1      40.5        42.
Other Assets
Interest & -onetary 'orrection on
loans to tentities in liquidation              --         --          --          --       34.8       197.0     370.9       527.6
Prepaid insurance                               0.1         0.6        0.1          --         --          --         --
Material in transit                             0.1         0.8        0.2         0.1         --          --         --
Interest Rec. on Treasury bonds                  --          --         --         0.5        0.4         0.5       1.7         1.3
Sub-total                                   0.2        1.4         0.3        0.6        35.2      197.5      372.6       528,9
TOTAL ASSETS                        2,127.      2,964.3    4,236.2    5,924.6    7,474.6    9,290.7  11,565.8   14,235.0
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Entities of the National Housing
System (deposits)                            26.1       64.5        45.0      111.7       324.7       634.4     823.1    1,194.4
Sundry creditors                                3.3         9.2       16.2        19.2       29.5        41.9     173.9       203.2
Sub-total                                  29.4       73.7        61.2      130.9       354.2       676.3     997.0
Long-term Debt
Employees' Indemnity Fund                   1,741.5    2,379.5    3,373.3    4,424.7    5,337.7    6,400.3   8,021.7    9,855.3
BN' housing bonds                              31.2       35.4        36.3        37.8       36.2        34.2      34.2        35.0
Foreign Loans:
IDB (IDB/BNH 104/SF-BR)                      18.9       21.0        25.4        30.7       37.9        48.4      52.1       49.2
AID                                          10.2        15.8       19.4        29.8       40.6        40.6      40.5        40.4
IBRD                                                                                        0.9        12.5      27.8       38.6
Miscellaneous                                 0.2         0.3         --          --      148.8       166.9     169.4       214.4
Sub-total                              1,802.0    2,452.0    3,454.4    4,523.0    5,602.1    6,702.9   8,345.7   10,232.9
Other Liabilities
Unallocated collections and repayments         12.0        16.0       14.3         4.7        8.8        30.8      26.8       30.0
Deferred income                                  --        13.3       11.9         8.9        9.3        10.6       7.9         6.2
Emp. Ind. Fund - to confirm                      --          --         --          --      215.6       189.7     196.9      201.7
Other unidentified receipts                      --          --         --          __       34.8       185.2     346.9      495.4
Sub-total                                  12.0       29.3        26.2       13.6       268.5       416.3     578.5      733.3
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                       177.5      160.9       321.5       442.1    1,068.1    1,392.1   1,641.4   2,090.2
Reserves                                      106.3      248.4       374.9       815.0      281.7       103.1       3.2    (219.0) 2/
Sub-total                                283.8      409.3       696.4    1,2 1    1,349.9         495.2    ,644.6   1 871.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  2,127.2    2,6.        4,216.2    5,924.6    7,574.6    9,290.7  11,565.8
1/  During 1971 through 1974, BNH considered all items over 180 days as long-term.  In 1975, BND changed to 365 days or
more as the long-term criterion. Data shown for 1972 through 1974 was estimated by BN'd auditors.
"   ----- -           ..-..       …         1¼, em,,-   . 7_     Il     . A        ,Ani l t       n 57 1 n f na id in canital.



BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA hABITAGAO
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
Us$ million)-_
Year Endin  December 31                   1971         1972        1973        1974          1975          1976          1977          1978            1979          1980         1981
nk Deemer3                      --------------        ------_____------- Audited -------;----------------------------     ------             ------_----Estintated 2t--______
REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS
Loan income                             120.3        120.4       173.8       245.8         362.7         437.4         529.8         658.7          840.0         1,048.5      1,243.5
Service income                           36.8         47.5        65.2        83.0         111.1         140.3         167.2         209.0          204.0           241.5        282.0
Other income                              5.9         60.3       102.1       105.1          85.8          89.5         104.3          88.0           193.5          259.5        325.5
Total                                163.0       228.2       433.9       559.6         667.2          801.3         801.3         955.7        1,237.5         1,549.f      1,851.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative expenses                  44.5         17.6        24.5        36.2          43.9          55.7          76.7          88.7           157.5          202.5  *    243.0
Financial expenses                       83.5        115.3       159.0       196.7         273.4         336.5         494.1         617.0          691.5           843.0        981.0
Other expenses                            4.0         10.6        13.0        15.1          21.7          19.0          21.8          28.8            61.5           64.5         70.5
Total                                102.0        143.5       196.5       480           339.0         411.2         592.6         734.5          910.5 124
Internal Cash Generation                 61.0         84.7       144.6       185.9         220.6         256.0         208.7         221.2          327.0           439.5        556.5
CAPITAL RESOURCES
Employees/Indemnity Fund (FGTS)
net of withdrawals                    424.4       523.7       727.1        912.4      1,135.1        1,199.6       1,458.0       1,748.5        1,890.0        2,088.0       2,289.0
Amortization of loan principal          242.5        551.1       325.2       618.7         570.2         664.1         661.7         881.0        1,212.0         1,260.0      1,500.0
Foreign loans                             4.1         8.7          8.6        16.5          19.9          13.6          22.8          13.8            75.0           90.0         75.0
Short-term deposits - net                            49.7                                  301.0          20.4         180.9         232.5          186.0           171.0        197-5
Short-term investments - net              0.7                                                            163.1          97.8                         195.0          232.5        262.5
Other 3/                                  1.7         27.3        28.0        97.7          13.6         271.3         281.6         257.6             -             -
FUNDS AVAILAbLE FOR INVESTMENT            734.4      1,245.2    i,233.5    1 831.2         2,260.4       2j588.1       2,702.8        3,354.6        3.885 0       4.281.0       4,840.5
FUNDS APPLIED
New loans granted                       618.4        961.1    1,021.9    1,535.4         1,939.4       2,569.7       2,483.2       3,010.8         3,750.0       4,275.0       4,830.0       §
Debt Service                              0.8          0.8         0.8         0.8           0.8           1.7            6.2           3.9          135.0            6.0          10.5
Short-term deposits - net                                         14.2         1.1
Short-term investments - net               -        255.6        197.7       254.0          50.1           -           213.4          226.4
Other 3/                                115.2         27.7        11.9        39.9         270.1          16.7          -             113.5                                       _ --
_____  I          -             -             -           2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~T7 02.  33---  388.          4,281.0       4,840.5
Total Applications                   734.4     1 5           ,233.5    18,831.2       2,260.4       2,588.1       2.702.8       3,354.6 3-8858o
FGTS - Withdrawals                        291.8        378.1       482.6       618.3         860.2       1,061.2       1,278.5        1,553.4        1,822.5        2,076.0       2,334.0
I/ Historical figures based on average exchange rates between the US dollar and the cruzeiro; forecast figures are based on one UPC being equivalent to 15.00 US dollar.
2/ Data extracted from 1978-80 budget-forecast of 3NH.
3/  Includes net increase or decrease in working capital.



- 68 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 15
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
State Water Companies' Financial Statements
Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
Notes on Existing Financial Statements
1.01      The financial projections are based on the historical financial
statements of the SWCs, which have been prepared in current cruzeiros.
Because of rapid inflation and accounting differences, it was difficult to
convert these cruzeiro statements into UPCs, in which the financial projec-
tions have been made. As a result of these accounting factors and the lack
of production metering, and in some cases consumption metering, the historical
financial statements do not provide a reliable base for making financial
projections.
1.02      The treatment of monetary corrections on fixed assets and liabilities
distort the reported net income of the SWCs. Assets and debt have been revalued
quarterly in conformity with an index provided by the Ministry of Finance for
adjustments of Obrigacoes Readjustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (ORTN). Under the
corporate law, for income tax determination 1/, these monetary adjustments
must be reflected respectively as income and expense in an SWC's income state-
ment. Since the monetary adjustments to assets and debt have not usually been
equivalent, the net income shown for an SWC is usually understated or overstated.
Recent changes made to the income tax law allow the SWCs to adjust their equity
accounts, and the distortion in the net income account has been reduced.
A commercial accounting system would exclude these monetary adjustments from
the income statement and only adjust asset, liability, and revaluation surplus
accounts. While from an economic and investment standpoint these adjustments
have merit, they must be excluded if meaningful income and cash flow statements
for purposes of cost control, rate making, and comparisons of financial perfor-
mance among SWCs are to be produced. Monetary corrections have been excluded
from the SWCs' historical income statements, and financial projections have
been prepared in UPCs which obviates the need to adjust for monetary correction.
1.03      The uniform system of accounts used by the SWCs does not provide for
an appropriate statement of sources and applications of cash. It is difficult
to derive this data from the existing income statements and balance sheets,
and the historical statements presented here are subject to a margin of error.
Financial Projections
General
1.04      Under the new tariff regulations BNH requires that all SWCs prepare
a financial/economic study (Estudo de Viabilidade Global Economico-Financiera
1/   The SWCs must follow the accounting requirements of the corporate law,
although they are specifically exempted from income taxes.



- 69 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 15
Das Companhias Estaduais da Saneamento Publico) and financial projections for
five years, to be updated on a year-to-year basis. These studies are analyzed
in depth by BNH through S/SFS and are the basis for its recommendation for
tariff approval by the Council of Ministries for Price Control (Conselho
Interministerial do Precios). At the time of appraisal the initial studies
prepared by the project SWCs were under substantial revision, and the projec-
tions included in this report have been prepared by the mission.
1.05      The financial projections are presented in UPCs.  The implied assump-
tion is that tariffs will be regularly adjusted upward to compensate for
cruzeiro depreciation against the UPC, apart from the real increases needed
to achieve or maintain financial viability as required by the new Tariff Law
and Regulations.
Income Statement
1.06      Water produced has been based on the expected availability of water
from ongoing and planned projects. Water sold has been determined in relation
to supply availability, gradual reductions in unaccounted-for water (except
CORSAN), and on the basis of expected consumption per connection under normal
conditions of supply. Tariffs have been assumed to increase from 1979 levels
at an annual rate of growth which will in 1983 produce revenues in compliance
with the National Tariff Law and Regulations.
1.07      Operating and maintenance expenses (which include expenses of commer-
cial operations) are assumed to increase at 7% per year to reflect inflation, 1/
and the following real increases.
Wages: 5% per annum.
Materials for water treatment: In line with water production.
Pumping/electric power: In line with number of connections.
Other miscellaneous costs: 2% per annum.
1.08      Administrative expenses are assumed to increase at 7% per annum
to reflect inflation, and 3% per annum to compensate for adjustments in staff-
ing and additional equipment to improve efficiency.
1.09      Provision for bad debts is a component of the total operating costs
and is assumed to be 1% of total billings.
1/   In the period 1975-78, the general price index was up by 37% as opposed
to devaluation of the cruzeiro vis-a-vis the UPC of about 30.3%. To
reflect the likelihood of this disparity continuing in the 1979-86
period, the UPCs in the forecast have been escalated at 7%.



- 70 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 15
1.10      Interest expense has been based on the present interest rates
charged by BNH and FAE and normal average terms of a three and four-year
grace period on principal repayments followed by 18 and 30-year repayment
periods respectively for water and sewerage loans. Interest during the grace
period is financed by both BNH and FAE and capitalized into the cost of
construction.
Cash Requirements and Sources
1.11      Capital expenditures are based on the expansion programs of the SWCs
(Annex 5). New long-term debt incurred is assumed to be roughly equivalent
to capital expenditures, which include capitalized expenses and interest
during construction. To the extent any projects may actually be financed by
equity or internal cash generation, the amount of such contributions would be
subtracted from the new long-term debt.
1.12      Debt service has been based on assumptions given in paragraphs 1.10
and 1.11.
1.13      Net working capital requirements have been based on the assumption
that inventories would increase at 5% p.a., accounts receivable would amount
to two months' sales, and current liabilities would increase at 5% p.a. These
assumptions are in line with levels allowed by the tariff regulations for
working capital.
Balance Sheets
1.14      Current assets and liabilities have been derived from the assumptions
given in paragraph 1.13.
1.15      The long-term debt has been derived from the assumptions given in
paragraphs 1.10 and 1.11. Equity has been increased (decreased) annually by
the amount of net income (loss) for the year.



15-CORSAN-RIO GR DO SUL                                 INCOME STATEMENT                                 MILL  UPC           06-13-79
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       1986
POPULATION-THOUSAND            3140.00   3281.30   3428.96   3583.26   3744.51   3913.01   4089.10   4273.11   4465.40   4666.34
POPULATION SERVED- WATER       2065.04   2325.05   2580.05   2790.06   2990.06   3165.06   3305.07   3435.07   3570.07   3695.07
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER       65.77      70.86     75.24      77.86      79.85     80.89      80.83      80.39      79.95      79.19
CONNECTIONS- WATER              413.00    465.00    516.00    558.00    598.00    633.00    661.00    687.00    714.00.   739.00
SEWER CONNECTIONS-THOUSAND       42.00     43.00      44.00      45.00      54.50     72.50      92.00    112.00    132.50    146.50
POPULATION SERVED-SEWERAGE    210.00    215.00    220.00    225.00    272.51    362.51    460.01    560.01    662.51    732.51
% POPULATION SERVED-SEW.          6.69       6.55      6.42       6.28       7.28      9.26      11.25      13.11      14.84      15.70
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3         117.87    137.71    139.32    150.66    161.46    170.91    178.47    185.49    192.78    199.53
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH         23.78      24.68     22.50      22.50      22.50     22.50      22.50      22.50      22.50      22.50
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00      20.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3             147.34    172.14    174.15    188.33    201.83    213.64    223.09    231.86    240.98    249.41
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD       195.48    202.84    184.93    184.93    184.93    184.93    184.93    184.93    184.93    184.93
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3       0.02      0.02       0.01       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.03       0.03       0.03
WATER   REVENUES                 1.83       2.12       1.98      2.48       3.01      3.57       4.20       5.03       5.48       6.47
SEWER REVENUES                    0.12      0.14       0.14       0.16       0.22      0.33       0.47       0.66       0.81,      1.03
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE         0.05       0.05      0.22       0.22       0.30      0.28       0.30       0.32       0.34       0.34
TOTAL REVENUES                    2.01       2.30      2.34       2.86       3.54       4.18      4.97       6.00       6.64       7.84
WAGES- WATER                      0.51       0.67      0.73       0.82       0.92       1.03       1.16      1.30       1.46       1.65
CHEMICALS                         0.13       0.16      0.17       0.20       0.23      0.25       0.28       0.32       0.35       0.39           1
POWER                             0.26       0.28      0.32       0.37       0.42      0.48       0.53       0.59       0.66       0.73
MATERIALS                         0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02       0.03
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                0.92       1.12       1.23      1.40       1.58       1.78      2.00       2.24       2.50       2.79
SEWER WAGES                       0.01       0.09      0.10       0.11       0.12      0.14       0.15       0.17       0.19       0.22
SEWER MATERIALS                   0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.01
POWER (TERCEIROS)                 0.03       0.03      0.03       0.03       0.04      0.06       0.08       0.11       0.13       0.16
OTHER (GERAIS)                    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
DIRECT COSTS SEWERAGE             0.03       0.12      0.13       0.14       0.17       0.20      0.24       0.28       0.33       0.38
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                0.95       1.24       1.36      1.54       1.75       1.98      2.24       2.52       2.83       3.17
ADMINISTRATION                    0.33       0.34      0.37       0.40       0.44       0.49      0.54       0.59       0.66       0.72
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS              0.01       0.01      0.02       0.03       0.03       0.04      0.05       0.06       0.06       0.08
TAXES                             0.00       0.00      0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05      0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05
TOTAL COSTS                       1.29       1.60       1.79      2.02       2.27       2.56      2.87       3.22       3.60       4.02
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.71      0.70       0.55       0.84       1.26       1.62      2.10       2.78       3.04       3.82        X
DEPRECIATION                      0.28       0.39      0.40       0.44       0.54       0.72      0.93        1.i6       1.39      1.59
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST            0.43      0.32       0.14       0.39       0.72      0.90        1.17       1.62      1.64       2.23        4s
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.            0.11      0.13       0.14       0.14       0.14      0.22       0.65       0.94       0.94       1.30        0o
NON OPER.REVENUES (+)             0.03       0.03      0.03       0.03       0.03       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.01       0.01
NET SURPLUS (+)                   0.35       0.21      0.03       0.29       0.61       0.71       0.54      0.70       0.71       0.94
AVERAGE RATE BASE                 5.18       7.06      8.72       9.29      11.17      15.00      19.49     24.22      28.77      32.24
*OPERATING RATIO %               64.41      69.49     76.61      70.68      64.32     61.26      57.81      53.64      54.25      51.27
*RATE OF RETURN %                 8.37       4.46       1.64      4.23       6.47       6.01      5.98       6.69       5.71       6.91



16-CORSAN-RIO GR DO SUL                                  FLOW OF FUNDS                       MILL  UPC                         06-13-79
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.71      0.70       0.55       0.84       1.26       1.62      2.10       2.78       3.04       3.82
NON-OPER.REVENUES (NET)           0.03       0.03      0.03       0.03       0.03      0.02       0.02       0.02       0.01       0.01
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION         0.75       0.73      0.58       0.87       1.29       1.64      2.12       2.80       3.05       3.83
INCREASE IN RESERVES              1.81      0.56       0.03       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
EQUITY INCREASE                  -1.80       1.17      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL LOANS                       0.81       1.05      2.55       4.21       5.78      5.67       5.58       6.45       4.23       0.34
=fls=t===  ========  ======    ======    = === ====  ========  ==:====t=  a**======  ==== ==a=====.= ==
TOTAL SOURCES                     1.57       3.51      3.16       5.08       7.07      7.31       7.70       9.25       7.28       4.17
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT             0.00      0.00       0.00       3.58       4.76      4.51       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST              0.03       0.10      0.05       0.21       0.45      0.63       0.44       0.42       0.62       0.34
OTHER WORKS                       1.21       2.64      2.23       0.00       0.00      0.00       4.60       5.40       3.50       3.00
CAPITALIZED EXPENSES              0.13       0.37      0.31       0.49       0.65      0.62       0.63       0.74       0.69       0.69
OTHER WORKS EXCESS CASH           0.01       0.12      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.42       0.69       0.50       0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  1.38       3.23      2.59       4.28       5.86      5.75       6.08       7.25       5.31       4.03
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.14       0.22       0.23       0.24
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.07       0.25       0.36       0.37       0.75
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION          0.11       0.11      0.09       0.09       0.11      0.11       0.12       0.12       0.13       0.14
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                0.11       0.11      0.09       0.09       0.11      0.18       0.51       0.70       0.73       1.13
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT         0.11       0.13      0.14       0.14       0.14      0.22       0.65       0.94       0.94       1.30
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                0.22       0.24      0.23       0.23       0.25      0.39       1.16       1.64       1.68       2.43
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL         -0.12      0.13       0.33       0.58      0.96       1.17       0.45       0.35       0.29      -2.28
OTHER ASSETS                      0.09      -0.09      0.01       0.00       0.00      0.00       O.0O       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                1.57       3.51      3.16       5.08       7.07      7.31       7.70       9.25       7.28       4.17
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                3.39       3.04      2.49       3.82       5.22      4.16       1.83       1.70       1.82       1.58
% CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT   26.35        20.46     10.32      15.10      19.68     21.17      15.05      18.63      24.84      31.47
% INTERNAL CASH RATIO             7.90       5.17      2.98       4.13       5.01       4.83      3.09       3.12       3.35       3.23
1-
ID X



17-CORSAN-RIO GR DO SUL                                  BALANCE SHEET                                   MILL  UPC               06-13-79
1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.              6.66       9.47      10.78      11.45      15.52     20.37       26.16      31.91      37.82      41.84
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION           0.81       1.20       1.60       2.05       2.59       3.30       4.24       5.40       6.79       8.38
NET FlXED ASSETS                   5.85       8.27       9.17       9.41      12.93      17.07      21.92      26.51      31.02      33.46
WORK IN PROGRESS                   0.80       1.22       2.50       6.10       7.90       8.80       9.10      10.60      10.00      10.00
CASH AND BANKS                     0.19       0.11       0.40       0.89       1.72       2.77       3.07       3.24       3.42       0.92
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                0.38       0.39       0.40       0.49       0.60       0.71       0.84       1.02       1.13        1.33
OTHER RECEIVABLES                  0.03       0.04       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05
INVENTARIES                        0.28       0.39       0.40      0.42       0.45       0.47        0.49       0.52       0.54       0.57
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS               0.05       0.03       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               0.92       0.96       1.30       1.89       2.85       4.03       4.50       4.87       5.18       2.91
OTHER ASSETS                       0.09       0.00       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01
TOTAL ASSETS                       7.66      10.45      12.98      17.40      23.70      29.91      35.53      41.99      46.21      46.38
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                             2.42       3.59       3.59       3.59       3.59       3.59       3.59       3.59       3.59       3.59
CONTRIBUTIONS                      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS                0.35       0.57       0.60       0.89       1.49       2.21       2.74       3.44       4.15       5.09
TOTAL EQUITY                       2.78       4.16       4.19       4.48       5.08       5.80       6.33       7.03       7.74       8.68
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)                2.64       3.60       6.05      10.16      15.76      20.92      25.80      31.52      34.61      33.66
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                   0.33       0.23       0.24       0.25       0.26       0.28       0.29       0.31       0.32       0.34
OTHER CURRENT PAYABL               0.00       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01
CURRENT MATURITIES                 0.11       0.09       0.09       0.11       0.18       0.51       0.70       0.73       1.13        1.29
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES          0.44       0.33       0.34       0.37       0.45       0.80       1.00       1.05       1.46        t.63
RESERVES                           1.81       2.37       2.40       2.40       2.40       2.40       2.40       2.40       2.40       2.40
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  4.89       6.30       8.79      12.93      18.61      24.12      29.20      34.97      38.47      37.70
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES           7.66      10.45      12.98      17.40      23.70      29.91      35.53      41.99      46.21      46.38
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION           0.59       0.72       1.05       1.62       2.58       3.75       4.20       4.55       4.84       2.56
*CURRENT RATIO                     2.08       2.90       3.82       5.15       6.30       5.06       4.50       4.64       3.54        1.78      mJ Z
% DEBT/(DEBT+EOUITY)              48.73      46.39      59.10      69.42      75.61      78.31      80.29      81.77      81.72       79.50       m X
0 '
I-h
ILn



20-CORSAN-RIO GR DO SUL                     MONITORING INDICATORS                                                          06-13-79
1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------------------------------------------
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
POPULATION-THOUSAND           3140.00   3281.30   3428.96   3583.26   3744.51   3913.01   4089.10   4273.11   4465.40   4666.34
POPULATION WITH  WATER        2065.04   2325.05   2580.05   2790.06   2990.06   3165.06   3305.07   3435.07   3570.07   3695.07
POPULATION SERVED- WATER      2065.04   2325.05   2580.05   2790.06   2990.06   3165.06   3305.07   3435.07   3570.07   3695.07
POPULATION SERVED-SEWERAGE    210.00    215.00    220.00    225.00    272.51    362.51    460.01    560.01    662.51    732.51
% SERVED  WATER                 65.77     70.86      75.24     77.86      79.85     80.89      80.83     80.39      79.95      79.19
% SERVED SEWERAGE                6.69      6.55       6.42      6.28       7.28      9.26      11.25      13.11     14.84      15.70
DEMAND
CONNECTIONS- WATER             4i3.00    465.00    516.00    558.00    598.00    633.00    661.00    687.00    714.00    739.00
SEWER CONNECTIONS 000           42.00     43.00      44.00     45.00      54.50     72.50      92.00    112.00    132.50    146.50
CONSUMPTION-MILLION  M3        117.87    137.71    139.32    150.66    161.46    170.91    i78.47    185.49    192.78    199.53
CONSUMPTION/CONN/ M3/MONTH      23.78     24.68      22.50     22.50      22.50     22.50      22.50     22.50      22.50      22.50
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        20.00     20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00      20.00
PRODUCTION-MILLION  M3         147.34    172.14    174.15    188.33    201.83    213.64    223.09    231.86    240.98    249.41
% INCREASE IN CONNECTIONS                  12.59     10.97      8.14       7.17      5.85       4.42      3.93       3.93       3.50
% INCREASE IN CONSUMPTION                  16.83      1.17      8.14       7.17      5.85       4.42      3.93       3.93       3.50
% INCREASE IN PRODUCTION                   16.83      1.17      8.14       7.17      5.85       4.42      3.93       3.93       3.50
ADMINISTRATION
EMPLOYEES PER 1000 CONNECT       7.91      7.66       6.98      6.54       6.19      5.85       5.67      5.46       5.32      5.14
COSTS
EXCHANGE RATE 1US$ =             0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07
OPERATING COSTS-MILLION          1.29       1.60      1.79      2.02       2.27      2.56       2.87      3.22       3.60       4.02
COST US$/ M3 SOLD                0.15      0.17       0.19      0.20       0.21      0.22       0.24      0.26       0.28      0.30
COST US $/CONNECTION/MONTH       3.67      4.28       4.32      4.50       4.73      5.03       5.41      5.83       6.27       6.77
INFLATION (%)                    0.00      0.00       7.00      7.00       7.00      7.00       7.00      7.00       7.00      7.00
REVENUES
AVERAGE TARIFF $/ M3 SOLD        0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.03      0.03       0.03      0.04
AVERAGE TARIFF US $/ M3 SOLD    0.23       0.24       0.23      0.26       0.30      0.34       0.39      0.46       0.49      0.56
% INCREASE IN TARIFFS                      -1.28     -7.29      15.22     14.41      13.86     14.80     17.07       6.59      15.07
FINANTIAL RATIOS
% RATE OF RETURN                 8.37      4.46       1.64      4.23       6.47      6.01       5.98      6.69       5.71       6.91       X
% OPERATING RATIO               64.41     69.49      76.61     70.68      64.32     61.26      57.81     53.64      54.25      51.27
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               3.39       3.04      2.49      3.82       5.22      4.16       1.83       1.70      1.82       1.58
% RECEIVABLES IN BILLING        18.88      16.94     17.00      17.00     17.00      17.00     17.00      17.00     17.00      17.00       0 c)
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)            48.73     46.39      59.10     69.42      75.61     78.31      80.29     81.77      81.72      79.50
CURRENT RATIO                    2.08       2.90      3.82      5.15       6.30      5.06       4.50      4.64       3.54       1.78



15-SANEPAR/PARANA                                         INCOME STATEMENT                                  MILL UPC            06-25-79
1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986
POPULATION-THOUSAND             2782.00   2948.92   3125.86   3313.41   3512.21   3722.94   3946.32   4183.10   4434-09   4700-13
POPULATION SERVED- WATER        1867.63   2204.04   2470.84   2754.05   3006.05   3186.05   3372.06   3570.06   3738.06   3912.07
%. POPULATION SERVED- WATER       67.13      74.74      79.05      83.12      85.59      85.58      85.45      85.34      84.30      83.23
CONNECTIONS- WATER               322.00    380.00    426.00    459.00    501.00    531.00    562.00    595.00    623.00    652.00
SEWER CONNECTIONS-THOUSAND        66.00      80.00      91.00    100.00    112.00    151.00    210.00    242,00    254.00    265.00
POPULATION SERVED-SEWERAGE    382.81    464.01    527.81    600.01    672.01    906.02   1260.02   1452.02   1524.03   1590.03
^b POPULATION SERVED-SEW.         13.76      15.73      16.89      18.11      19.13      24.34      31.93      34.71      34.37       33.83
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3          110.72     121.65     136.75     147.34    160.82    170.45       180.94    191.57    200.58    209.92
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH          28.65      26.68      26.75      26.75      26.75      26.75      26.83      26.83      26.83      26.83
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER          30.00      30.00      28.00      28.00      28.00      26.00      24.00      22.00      22.00       20.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3              158.17     173.79    189.93    204.64    223.36    230.34    238.08    245.60    257.16    262.40
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCO        232.03    216.03    210.59    203.58    203.58         198.07     193.44     188.48     188.48      183.77
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3        .0o1       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.03        0.03
WATER   REVENUES                  1.20       1.55       1.67       2.15       2.71       3.31       4.11       4.78       5.23        5.95
SEWER REVENUES                     0.31       0.38       0.29       0.37       0.48       0.75       1.23       1.56        1.71'      1.93
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE          0.26       0.30       0.27       0.33       0.39       0.80       0.62       0.52       0.38        0.33
TOTAL REVENUES                     1.77       2.23       2.22       2.85       3.58       4.87       5.96       6.86       7.32        8.21
WAGES- WATER                       0.30       0.44       0.48       0.54       0.60       0.68       0.76       0.86       0.96        1.08          t
CHEMICALS                          0.09       0.05       0.06       0.05       0.0?       0.08       0.09       0.10       0.11        0.12         U'
POWER                              0.29       0.27       0.31       0.36       0.42       0.47       0.53       0.60       0.68        0.76
MATERIALS                          0.00       0.06       0.07       0.07       0.08       0.09       0.09       0.10       0.11        0.12
OTHER (GERAIS)                     0.00       0.09       0.09       0.10       0.t1       0.12       0.13       0.15        0.16       0.17
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                 0.67       0.91       1.00       1.13       1.29       1.44       1.62        1.81       2.03       2.26
SEWER WAGES                        0.03       0.11       0.12       0.13       0.15       0.17       0.19       0.21       0.24        0.27
SEWER MATERIALS                    0.00       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.03        0.03
POWER(TERCEIROS)                   0.02       0.07       0.08       0.09       0.11       0.16       0.24       0.29       0.33        0.37
OTHER (GERAIS)                     0.00       0.02       0.02       0.03       0.03       0.03       0.03       0.04       0.04        0.04
DIRECT COSTS SEWERAGE              0.05       0.22       0.24       0.27       0.31       0.38       0.48       0.56       0.64        0.71
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                 0.72       1.12       1.25       1.41       1.60       1.82       2.10       2.38        2.67       2.97
ADMINISTRATION                     0.39       0.48       0.51       0.56       0.e2       0.68       0.75       0.83        0.91       1.01
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS               0.02       0.01       0.02       0.03       0.03       0.04       0.05       0.06        0.07       0.08
TOTAL COSTS                        1.12       1.61       1.77       1.99       2.25       2.54       2.90       3.27        3.65       4.06
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION         0.64       0.62       0.45       0.86       1.33       2. 32      3.06       3.59        3.67       4.15
DEPRECIATION                       0.28       0.39       0.40       0.52       0.66       0.84        1,04       1.25       1.40       1.49       W 
========  ========  =e======   ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========                m P
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST             0.36       0.23       0.05       0.34       0.67       1.49       2.02       2.34       2.28        2.66       oD
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.             0.46       0.36       0.34       0.59       0.56       0.74       0.96        1.00      0.94        1.00       o °
NON OPER.REVENUES (+)              0.03       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04        0.04       0.04
NET SURPLUS (+)                   -0.07      -0.09      -0.26      -0.21       0.15       0.78        1.10       1.38       1.37       1.70       U'
AVERAGE RATE BASE                  5.89       7.99      10.36      13.15      16.70      21.02      25.82      30.83       33.61      34.76
-OPERATING RATIO %                63.56      72.22      79.78      69.95      62.83      52.26      48.71      47.64      49.82       49.42
*RATE OF RETURN %                  6.12       2.84       0.46       2.58       4.00       7.07       7.82       7.58        6.77       7.66



16-SANEPAR/PARANA                                          FLOW OF FUNDS                       MILL UPC                            06-25-79
1977       1978       1979      1980       1981        1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME 8EFORE DEPRECIATION         0.64       0.62       0.45       0.86       1.33       2.32       3.06       3.59       3.67       4.15
NON-OPER.REVENUES (NET)            0.03       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.9D4      0.04
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION          0.68       0.66       0.49       0.90       1.37       2.36       3.10       3.63       3.71       4.19
GOVERMENT GRANTS                   0.00       0.25       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
INCREASE OTHER LIABILITIES         0.00       0.11      -0.07       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
INCREASE IN RESERVES               0.00       1.10       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00'      0.00
TOTAL LOANS                        1.82       2.76       4.53       4.51       7.26       6.26       2.24       2.01       1.22       0.13
SHORT TERM LOANS                   0.49       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0. 00      0.00
TOTAL SOURCES                      3.00       6.63       4.94       5.41       8.63       8.62       5.34       5.65       4.93       4.32
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT              0.00       0.00       0.00       3.91       6.12       5.35       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST               0.20       0.30       0.10       0.27       0.39       0.30       0.15       0.15       0.22       0.13
OTHER WORKS                        1.44       3.32       3.95       0.00       0.00       0.00       1.81       2.44       2.00       2.00
CAPITALIZD EXPENSES                0.35       0.45       0.54       0.14       0.84       0.73       0.27       0.33       0.27       0.27
OTHER WORKS EXCESS CASH            0.00       1.34       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                   1.99       5.41       4.59       4.32       7.35       6.38       2.29       2.92       2.49       2.40           a
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION          0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00'      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION         0.11       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.15       0.35       0.48       OSO0       0.61
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION           0.14       0.20       0.36       0.38       0.58       0.65       0.69       0.73       0.77       0.82
SHORT TERM LOANS AMORTIZ.          0.00       0.49       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                 0.26       0.69       0.36       0.38       0.58       0.81       1.04       1.21       1.27        1.43
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT          0.46       0.36       0.34       0.59       0.56       0.74       0.96       1.00       0.94        1.00
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST         0.46       0.36       0.34       0.59       0.56       0.74       0.96       1.00       0.94        1.00
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                 0.72       1.05       0.71       0.97       1.13       i.55       1.99       2.21       2.22       2.43
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL           0.28       0.15      -0.35       0.12       0.14       0.69       1.06       0.52       0.23      -0.51
OTHER ASSETS                       0.00       0.02       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 3.00       6.63       4.94       5.41       8.63       8.62       5.34       5.65       4.93       4.32
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 0.94       0.63       0.69       0.93       1.21       1.53       1.56       1.65       1.68        1.73
% CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT   -1.37         -9.84      -4.51      -1.31       3.90      15.25      28.60      55.50      57.54      72.59    m
% INTERNAL CASH RATIO             -0.46      - 2 .76    -1.17      -0.32       0.81       2.36       3.09       3.81       3.89       4.47
0 C



17-SANEPAR/PARANA                                      BALANCE SHEET                                 MILL UPC               06-25-79
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983       1984      1985       1986
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.            7.66       9.80      13.19     16 31      21.46     26.44      32.94      38.76     41. 15     43,95
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION         0.54       0.94       1.34      1.85       2.52      3.35       4.39       5.65      7.05       8.54
NET FIXED ASSETS                  7.11      8.87      11.85     14.46      18.95     23.09      28.54      33.11     34.10      35.41
WORK IN PROGRESS                  2.14      5.40       6.60      7.80      10.00      11.40      7.20       4.30      4.40       4.00
CASH AND BANKS                   0.06       0.29       0.21      0.26       0.31      0.82       1.72       2.13      2.32       1.70
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              0.47       0.62       0.38      0.48       0.61      0.83       1.01       1.17       1.24      1.40
OTHER RECEIVABLES                0.00       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02
INVENTARIES                      0.42       0.40      0.41       0.44       0.46      0.48       0.50      0.53       0.56       0.58
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS             0.10       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS              1.05      1.34       1.04      1.22       1.42      2.16       3.28       3.86      4.16       3.72
OTHER ASSETS                     0.00       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02
========    ========    ==~~= = ==    = = = =   o==    =  ==== === == === =  ====  = == = = == =
TOTAL ASSETS                     10.30     15.63      19.52     23.49      30.38     36.67      39.04      41.29     42.68      43.15
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                            1.98      3.73       3.73      3.73       3.73      3.73       3.73       3.73      3.73       3.73
CONTRIBUTIONS                    0.00       0.25       0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25       0.25       0.25      0.25       0.25
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS             -0.07      -0.16      -0.42     -0.63      -0.48      0.30       1.40       2.78       4.15      5.85
TOTAL EOUITY                      1.91      3.82       3.56      3.35       3.50       4.28      5.38       6.76       8.13      9.83
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)              6.81       9.21      13.35     17.29      23.74     28.96      30.00      30.74     30.54      29.09
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 0.90       0.99       1.03       1.09      1.14       1.20      1.26       1.32       1.39       1.46
OTHER CURRENT PAYABL              0.00      0.06       0.06      0.06       0.06      0.06       0.06       0.06       0.06      0.06
CURRENT MAlURITIES               0.20       0.36       0.38      0.58       0.81       1.04      1.21       1.27       1.43       1.57
_ _ _   _  _   _   _       _- --- - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - -_ __- - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         1.10      1.40       1.47       1.72      2.01       2.29      2.52       2.65       2.87      3.09
SHORT TERM DEBT                  0.49       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
OTHER LIABILITIES                0.00       0.11       0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04
RESERVES                         0.00       1.10       1.10      1.10       1.10       1.10      1.10       1.10       1.10       1.10
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 8.40     11.82      15.97     20.15      26.89      32.40     33.67      34.54      34.55     33.32  xQ Z
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES         10.30     15.63      19.52     23.Ag      30.38      36.67     39.04      41.29      42.68     43.15  i-O
0
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         0.15       0.30      -0.05      0.07       0.22       0.91      1.97       2.48       2.71       2.20  M
'CURRENT RATIO                   0.95       0.96       0.71      0.71       0.71      0.94       1.30       1.46       1.45       1.20   .
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             78.07     70.70      78.96     83.77      87.15      87.12     84.78      81.97      78.97      74.74   -



20-SANEPAR/PARANA                             MONITORING INDICATORS                                                           06-25-79
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985      1986
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
POPULATION-THOUSAND            2782.00   2948.92   3125.86   3313.41   3512.21   3722.94   3946.32   4183.10   4434.09   4700.13
POPULATION WITH  WATER         1867.63   2204.04   2470.84   2754.05   3006.05   3186.05   3372.06   3570.06   3738.06   3912.07
POPULATION SERVED- WATER       1867.63   2204.04   2470.84   2754.05   3006.05   3186.05   3372.06   3570.06   3738.06   3912.07
POPULATION SERVED-SEWERAGE    382.81    464.01    527.81    600.01    672.01    906.02   1260.02   1452.02   1524.03   1590.03
% SERVED  WATER                  67.13      74.74     79.05      83.12'    85.59       85.58     85.45      85.34      84.30      83.23
% SERVED SEWERAGE                13.76      15.73      16.B9     18.11      19.13      24.34      31.93     34.71      34.37      33.83
DEMAND
CONNECTIONS- WATER              322.00    380.00    426.00    459.00    501.00    531.00    562.00    595.00    623.00    652.00
SEWER CONNECTIONS 000            66.00      80.00     91.00    100.00    112.00    151.00    210.00    242.00    254.00    265.00
CONSUMPTION-MILLION  M3         110.72    121.65    136.75    147.34    160.82    170.45    180.94    191.57    200.58    209.92
CONSUMPTION/CONN/ M3/MONTH       28.65      26.68     26.75      26.75      26.75      26.75     26.83      26.83      26.83      26.83
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         30.00      30.00     28.00      28.00      28.00      26.00     24.00      22.00      22.00      20.00
PRODUCTION-MILLION  M3          158.17    173.79    189.93    204.64    223.36    230.34    238.08    245.60    257.16    262.40
% INCREASE IN CONNECTIONS                   18.01      12.11      7.75       9.15       5.99       5.84      5.87       4.71       4.65
% INCREASE IN CONSUMPTION                    9.87      12.41      7.75       9.15       5.99       6.15      5.87       4.71       4.65
% INCREASE IN PRODUCTION                     9.87      9.29       7.75       9.15       3.12       3.36      3.16       4.71       2.04            -i
00
ADMINISTRATION
EMPLOYEES PER 1000 CONNECT        9.62       8.90      8.59       8.06       7.39       6.97      6.58       6.30       6.02       5.75
COSTS
EXCHANGE RATE 1US$ =              0.07       0.07      0.07       0.07       0.07       0.07      0.07       0.07       0.07       0.07
OPERATING COSTS-MILLION           1.12       1.61       1.77      1.99       2.25       2.54       2.90      3.27       3.65       4.06
COST US$/ M3 SOLD                 0.14       0.19      0.19       0.20       0.21       0.22      0.24       0.25       0.27       0.29
COST US $/CONNECTION/MONTH        4.09       5.12      5.18       5.40       5.58       5.96       6.43      6.83       7.28       7.74
INFLATION (%)                     0.00      0.00       7.00       7.00       7.00      7.00       7.00       7.00       7.00       7.00
REVENUES
AVERAGE TARIFF $/ M3 SOLD         0.01       0.02      0.01       0.02       0.02       0.02      0.03       0.03       0.03       0.04   e  .
AVERAGE TARIFF US $/ M3 SQLD    0.19         0.23      0.21       0.26       0.30       0.36      0.44       0.49       0.52       0.56  p 
% INCREASE IN TARIFFS                       17.01     -9.99      19.61      15.83      20.32     23.76      12.07       4.54       8.49  S Z
FINANTIAL RATIOS
_   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _                                                                                                    O
% RATE OF RETURN                  6.12       2.84      0.46       2.58       4.00       7.07       7.82      7.58       6.77       7.66  0
% OPERATING RATIO                63.56      72.22     79.78      69.95      62.83      52.26     48.71      47.64      49.82      49.42
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                0.94       0.63      0.69       0.93       1.21       1.53       1.56       1.65      1.68       1.73  f
% RECEIVABLES IN BILLING         26.38      27.84      17.00     17.00      17.00      17.00      17.00     17.00      17.00      17.00
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             78.07      70.70     78.96      83.77      87.15      87.12     84.78      81.97      78.97      74.74
CURRENT RATIO                     0.95       0.96      0.71       0.71       0.71       0.94       1.30       1.46      1.45       1.20



15-CASAN/STA CATARINA                                   INCOME STATEMENT                                 MILL UPC            06-18-79
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       1986
POPULATION-THOUSAND            1435.40   1521.52   1612.82   1709.58   1812.16   1920.89   2036.14   2158.31   2287.81   2425.08
POPULATION SERVED- WATER        730.81    911.96   1050.02   1221.02   1380.02   1515.03   1644.03   1776.03   1902.03   2019.03
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER       50.91      59.94     65.10      71.42      76.15     78.87      80.74      82.29      83.14      83.26
CONNECTIUNS- WATER              126.00    149.50    175.00    203.50    230.00    252.50    274.00    296.00    317.00    336.50
SEWER CONNECTIONS-THOUSAND        7.80       7.80      8.40      14.00      25.50     38.50      49.50      58.00      66.00      72.50
POPULATION SERVED-SEWERAGE       45.24      47.58     50.40      84.00    153.00    231.00    297.00    348.01    396.01    435.01
% POPULATION SERVED-SEW.          3.15       3.13      3.13       4.91       8.44      12.03      14.59     16.12      17.31      17.94
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3          36.44      44.85     52.50      61.05      69.00      75.75     82.20      88.80      95.10    100.95
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH         24.10      25.00     25.00      25.00      25.00      25.00     25.00      25.00      25.00      25.00
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         35.00      34.00     34.00      34.00      32.00      30.00     28.00      26.00      26.00      20.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3              56.06      67.95     79.55      92.50    101.47    108.21    114.17    120.00    128.51         126.19
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD       210.16    204.15    207.55   .207.55    201.45    195.69    190.26    185.12    185.12    171.23
AVERAGE  WATER  TARIFF / M3       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02       0.03       0.03
WATER   REVENUES                 0.47       0.57      0.64       0.85       1.10       1.38       1.71      2.20       2.43       2.79
SEWER REVENUES                    0.03       0.05      0.02       0.05       0.10       0.17      0.25       0.35       0.41       0.48
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE         0.07       0.11      0.14       0.20       0.22       0.22      0.23       0.25       0.27       0.23
TOTAL REVENUES                    0.58       0.73      0.80       1.09       1.41       1.76      2.19       2.79       3.11       3.50
WAGES- WATER                      0.06       0.25      0.27       0.30       0.34       0.38      0.43       0.48       0.54       0.61
CHEMICALS                         0.01       0.04      0.05       0.06       0.07       0.08      0.09       0.10       0.11       0.12
POWER                             0.02       0.07      0.08       0.10       0.12       0.14      0.16       0.19       0.22       0.25
MATERIALS                         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.01       0.01
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                0.09       0.36      0.40       0.46       0.53       0.61      0.69       0.78       0.88       0.98
SEWER WAGES                       0.00       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02
POWER (TFRCEIROS)                 0.00       0.00      0-00       0.01       0.01       0.02      0.03       0.03       0.04       0.05
OTHER (GERAIS)                    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.01       0.01
DIRECT COSTS SEWERAGE             0.00       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.03       0.04      0.05       0.06       0.07       0.08
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                0.10       0.37      0.42       0.49       0.56       0.64      0.73       0.83       0.95        1.06
ADMINISTRATION                    0.35       0.22      0.23       0.26       0.28       0.31      0.34       0.38       0.42       0.46
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS              0.17       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.02       0.02      0.03       0.03       0.03
TAXES                             0.00       0.00      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01
========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ====='==               t:1
TOTAL COSTS                       0.61       0.60      0.67       0.76       0.87       0.98       1.11       1.25       1.40       1.56       P Z
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       -0.03       0.13      0.14       0.33       0.54       0.78       1.08       1.55       1.70      1.93          X
DEPRECIATION                      0.07       0.12      0.15       0.16       0.20'      0.28       0.34       0.42      0.51       0.57
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST           -0.10       0.01     -0.01       0.17       0.34       0.50      0.74        1.12       1.19      1.36        0
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.            0.12       0.17      0.30       0.29       0.29       0.30      0.44       0.65       0.67       0.73
NON OPER.REVENUES (+)             0.13      -0.02      0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04
===n
NET SURPLUS (+)                  -0.09      -0.18      -0.26     -0.08       0.10       0.24       0.34      0.51       0.56       0.67
AVERAGE PATE BASE                 2.26       3.80      4.54       4.85       6.11       8.43      10.22      12.46      15.11     16.41
*OPERATINIG RATIO %             105.30      82.11     82.93      69.85      61.43      55.78     50.67      44.69      45.16      44.70
*RATE OF RETURN %                -4.46       0.30     -0.17       3.51       5.61       5.93      7.21       9.03       7.87       8.31



i6-CASAN/STA CATARINA                                   FLOW OF FUNDS                     MILL UPC                          06-18-79
1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -0.03      0.13       0.14      0.33       0.54      0.78       1.08       1.55      1.70       1.93
NON-OPER.REVENUES (NET)          0.13      -0.02      0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION        0.10       0.11      0.18      0.37       0.58      0.82       1.12       1.59      1.74       1.97
INCREASE OTHER LIABILITIES       0.05     -0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
INCREASE IN RESERVES             0.08      0.08       0.03      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
EQUITY INCREASE                  0.03      0.63       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL LOANS                      1.22       1.05      0.55      2.01       3.28      4.26       2.21       1 51      1.14       1.11
SHORT TERM LOANS                 0.10      0.00       0.00      0.18       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL SOURCES                    1.58       1.87      0.76      2.56       3.86      5.08       3.33      3.09       2.89       3.08
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00      0.00       0.00       1.77      2.81      3.55       0.00      0.00       0.00      0 00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST             0.12       0.14      0.10      0.14       0.25      0.29       0.28      0.13       0.16       0.11
OTHER WORKS                      1.51       0.78      0.27      0.00       0.00      0.00       1.94       1.38      0.99       1.00
CAPTLZD EXPENSES                 0.10      0.10       0.04      0.19       0.28      0.33       0.27      0.19       0.14       0.14
OTHER WOPKS EXCESS CASH          0.00      0.45       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                 1.73       1.47      0.41      2.10       3.33      4.17       2.48       1.70      1.28       1.24
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION        0.10      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.07
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.12      0.28       0.30       0.31
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION         0.05      0.08       0.10      0.12       0.14      0.16       0.18      0.20       0.22       0.24          o
SHORT TERM LOANS AMORTIZ.        0.00      0.10       0.00      0.00       0.05      0.13       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.15      0.18       0.10      0.12       0.19      0.29       0.30      0.48       0.52       0.62
OPER. INTEREST LONG T.OEBT       0. 12      0.17      0.30      0.29       0.29      0.30       0.44      0.65       0.67       0.73
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.12      0.17       0.30      0.29       0.29      0.30       0.44      0.65       0.67       0.73
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.27      0.35       0.40      0.41       0.48      0.59       0.74       1.14      1.18       1.35
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        -0.42      0.05      -0.04      0.05       0.05      0.32       0.11      0.26       0.43       0.49
OTHER ASSETS                     0.00      -0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               1.58       1.87      0.76      2.56       3.86      5.08       3.33      3.09       2.89       3.08
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.36       0.31      0.45      0.90       1.22       1.39      1.51       1.39      1.47       1.46
% CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENr  -10.29    -20.12    -16.42        -2.10      3.32      6.91      13.67     24.62      39.90      49.89
% INTERNAL CASH RATIO           -4.33      -4.60     -3.94      -0.55      1.00       1.59      2.29       2.50      3.01       3.24
I.-.
LA



17-CASAN/STA CATARINA                                BALANCE SHEET                               MILL UPC               06-18-79
…-----__ ______-------------------------------------------------__-----------__----------------------------------______------__
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.           3.24      4.69       4.99      5.60      7.88     10.72      12.08     15.97      18.30     19.65
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION        0.10      0.22       0.37      0.53      0.73       1.01      1.35      1.77      2.29       2.86
NET FIXED ASSETS                3.13      4.46       4.63      5.07      7.15      9.71      10.73     14.19      16.02     16.80
WORK IN PROGRESS                0.78      0.80       0.90      2.39      3.44      4.77       5.89      3.70      2.65       2.54
CASH AND BANKS                  0.09      0.06       0.04      0.04      0.04      0.32       0.37      0.54      0.92       1.36
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE             0.12      0.15       0.14      0.19      0.24      0.30       0.37      0.48      0.53       0.59
OTHER RECEIVABLES               0.01      0.01       0.01      0.02      0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.02       0.02
INVENTARIES                     0.06      0.12      0.13       0.13      0.14      0.15      0.15       0.16      0.17      0.18
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS            0.01      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04       0.04
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            0.29      0.37       0.35      0.42      0.48      0.82       0.96      1.23       1.68      2.19
OTHER ASSETS                    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
DEFERRED EXPENSES               0.76      0.76       0.76      0.76      0.76      0.76       0.76      0.76      0.76       0.76
TOTAL ASSETS                    4.96      6.40       6.64      8.64     11.84      16.07     18.34     19.89     21.11      22.29
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                          0.42       1.05      1.05      1.05      1.05       1.05      1.05      1.05       1.05      1.05          I
CONTRIBUTIONS                   0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00          o
REVALUATION SURPLUS             0.08      0.08       0.08      0.08      0.08      0.08       0.08      0.08      0.08       0.08
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS            -0.09      -0.27     -0.54     -0.62     -0.52     -0.28       0.06      0.57       1.13      1.81
TOTAL EQUITY                    0.41      0.86       0.60      0.52      0.61      0.85       1.19      1.70      2.27       2.94
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)             3.96      4.91       5.34      7.20     10.32      14.28     16.01     17.00      17.53     17.92
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                0.27      0.31       0.32      0.34      0.36      0.38       0.39      0.41      0.43       0.46
OTHER CURR PAYABLES             0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01
CURRENT MATURITIES              0.08      0.10       0.12      0.14      0.16      0.30       0.48      0.52       0.62      0.72
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES       0.35      0.41       0.45      0.49      0.53      0.68       0.89      0.94       1.06      1.19
SHORT TERM DEBT                 0.10      0.00       0.00      0.18      0.13      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER LIABILITIES               0.05       0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05
RESERVES                        0.10      0.17       0.20      0.20      0.20      0.20       0.20      0.20       0.20      0.20
TOTAL LIABILITIES               4.55       5.54      6.04      8.13     11.23      15.22     17.15     18.19      18.84     19.35       , >
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES        4.96       6.40      6.64      8.64     11.84      16.07     18.34     19.89      21.11     22.29
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION        0.01      0.06       0.01      0.07      0.12      0.44       0.55      0.81       1.24      1.72         O
*CURRENT RATIO                  0.81      0.90       0.77      0.85      0.92       1.20      1.08      1.31       1.58      1.85       0
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)           90.67      85.09     89.94     93.31     94.38      94.35     93.07     90.90      88.56     85.91
I-



20-CASAN/STA CATARINA                       MONlTORING INDICATORS                                                         06-18-79
1977      1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
…-----------------------------_------------------------------------_______---__------------_-------_---------_---__-_---_______
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
---------------------------------
POPULATION-THOUSAND           1435.40   1521.52   1612.82   1709.58   18S2.16   1920.89   2036.14   2158.31   2287.81   2425.08
POPULATION WITH  WATER         730.81    911.96   1050.02   1221.02   1380.02   1515.03   1644.03   1776.03   1902.03   2019.03
POPULATION SERVED- WATER       730.81    911.96   1050.02   1221.02   1380.02   1515.03   1644.03   1776.03   1902.03   2019.03
POPULATION SERVED-SEWERAGE      45.24     47.58     50.40      84.00    153.00    231.00    297.00    348.01    396.01    435.01
% SERVED  WATER                 50.91     59.94     65.10      71 42     76.15     78.87      80.74     82.29      83.14     83.26
% SERVED SEWtERAGE               3.15      3.13      3.13       4.91      8.44      12.03     14.59     16.12      17.31      17.94
DEMAND
CONNECTIONS- WATER             126.00    149.50    175.00    203.50    230.00    252.50    274.00    296.00    317.00    336.50
SEWER CONNECTIONS 000            7.80      7.80      8.40      14.00     25.50     38.50      49.50     58.00      66.00     72.50
CONSUMPT!ON-MILLION  M3         36.44     44.85     52.50      61.05     69.00     75.75      82.20     88.80      95.10    100.95
CONSUMPTION/CONN/ M3/MONTH      24.10     25.00     25.00      25.00     25.00     25.00      25.00     25.00      25.00     25.00
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        35.00     34.00     34.00      34.00     32.00     30.00      28.00     26.00      26.00     20.00
PRODUCTION-MILLION  M3          56.06     67.95     79.55      92.50    101.47    108.21    114.17    120.00    128.51    126.19
% INCREASE IN CONNECTIONS                 18.65      17.06     16.29     13.02      9.78       8.51      8.03       7.09      6.15
% INCREASE IN CONSUMPTION                 23.08      17.06   . 16.29     13.02      9.78       8.51      8.03       7.09      6.15
% INCREASE IN PRODUCTION                  21.22      17.06     16.29      9.70      6.65       5.50      5.11       7.09     -1.81
ADMINISTRATION
EMPLOYEES PER 1000 CONNECT       0.00      0.00      9.11       8.35      7.61      7.13       6.75      6.42       6.15      5.94          0
COSTS
EXCHANGE RATE 1US$ =             0.07      0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07
OPERATING COSTS-MILLION          0.61      0.60      0.67       0.76      0.87      0.98       1.11      1.25       1.40       1.56
COST US$/ M3 SOLD                0.24      0.20      0.19       0.19      0.19      0.19       0.20      0.21       0.22      0.23
COST US $/CONNECTION/MONTH       5.71      4.97      4.74       4.66      4.69      4.84       5.03      5.25       5.50      5.78
INFLATION (%)                   0.00       0.00      7.00       7.00      7.00      7.00       7.00      7.00       7.00      7.00
RFVENUES
AVERAGE TARIFF $/ M3 SOLD        0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01      0.02      0.02       0.02      0.03       0.03      0.03
AVERAGE TARIFF US $/ M3 SOLD    0.20       0.20      0.19       0.22      0.26      0.30       0.36      0.43       0.45      0.48
% INCREASE IN TARIFFS                     -1.81     -8.08      16.69     18.02      17.82     16.58     20.50       4.10      8.35
FINANTIAL RATIOS
/. RATE OF RETURN               -4.46      0.30     -0.17       3.51      5.61      5.93       7.21      9.03       7.87      8.31      XQ
% OPERATING RATIO              105.30     82.11     82.93      69.85     61.43     55.78      50.67     44.69      45.16     44.70         M
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               0.36      0.31      0.45       0.90      1.22       1.39      1.51      1.39       1.47       1.46     In -
% RECEIVABLES IN BILLING        20.10     20.91      17.00     17.00     17.00      17.00     17.00     17.00      17.00      17.00        O
% DEBT/(DEET+EQUITY)            90.67     85.09     89.94      93.31     94.38     94.35      93.07     90.90      88.56     85.91       0
"CURRENT RATIO                      0.81       0.90      0.77      0.85       0.92      1.20       1.08      1.31       1.58      1.85
Lii



- 83 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Calculations
Basis for IRR Calculations
1.01      Internal rates of return have been calculated for the water
component and the water supply and sewerage component of the three SWCs'
1980-82 investment programs (Annex 6). All investments have been stated in
1979 UPCs and include engineering and physical contingencies, but exclude
price contingencies. Foreign exchange has been shadow priced at 1.3 times the
official rate of exchange. Water and sewerage connection fees, assumed to
cost about 4.0 UPC per connection, have been excluded from both costs and
benefits. Apart from these costs, each incremental connection has been
assumed to require an investment of 2.0 UPCs.
1.02      Revenues generated by the project services have been used as a
proxy for economic benefits. It was assumed that all connections which
were part of the project will be installed by mid-1983, and that this
level represents 50% of the ultimate connections to be supplied by the
project facilities, except in the case of the SANEPAR sewerage component which
is primarily networks which will largely be completed during the period of
construction. The remaining connections were assumed to be installed in equal
annual numbers through the year 1989. Revenues have been based on constant
per capita consumption per connection and on actual tariffs which will prevail
in each year if each SWC complies with the revenue requirements of the National
Tariff Law up to 1986 and at 1986 levels thereafter (all revenues stated in
terms of 1979 UPCs).
1.03      Operating costs have been based on averages of estimated incremental
operating costs per connection for a number of water supply and sewerage sub-
projects analyzed for each state (stated in terms of 1979 UPCs).



BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CASAN                                                           INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (IRR) CALCULATIONS
(thousand UPCs as of June 1979)
COSTS                                                           REVENUES
Connections(000)          Construction                      Operating              Construction & Operating
_Year          Water    Sewerage    Water               Sewerage                        Water   Water         Sewerage       Ttal            Water   Sewerage         Total
1980             6.6          2.9       767            1,048               7           2          774         1,050        1,824              13         4              17
1981            26.5        11.5    1,035              1,660              34           7       1,069         1,667         2,736              75        18              93
1982            49.0        24.5        796            2,393              77          17         873         2,410         3,283             173        66             239
1983            70.5        35.5         43               22             121          29         164             51          215             284       114             298
1984            82.3        41.4         24               12             153          37         177             49          226             406       163             569
1985            94.1        47.3         24               12             174          42         198             54          252             451       181            632
1986           105.9        53.2         24               12             196          48         220             60          280             515       207             722
1987           117.7        59.1         24               12             219          54         243             66          309             576       231             807
1988           129.5        65.0         24               12             235          59         259             71          330             637       256             893
1989           141.0        71.0         23               12             258          65         281             77          358             697       280            977               l
1990-2019      141.0        71.0       --                                269          68         269             68          337             726       293          1,019               X-
IRR Water       = 12.48%
IRR Total       =  6.58%
o I



BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWLERAGE PROJECT
CO9SAN
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (IRR) CALCULATIONS
(thousand UPCs as of June 1979)
Conneetions (000)                                                  COSTS                                                           REVENUES
| n i (000)   Construction                     Operating              Construction & Operating
Year           Water    Sewerage       Water          Sewerage           Water   Sewerage        Water      Sewerage       Total        Water       Sewerage      Total
1980            10.0          2.3    1,244.0          1,494.0              12.7       2.1      1,256.7      1,496.1      2,752,8         21.6         4.2            25.8
1981            40.0          9.5    2,052.0          2,039.0              63.3      10.6     2,115.3       2,049.6      4,164.9        113.2        21.4           134.6
1982            75.0         27.5    1,507.0          1,626.0             145.5      33.3      1,652.5      1,659.3      3,311.8        269.7        69.4           339.1
1983           103.0         47.0        56.0            39.0             225.2      67.1        281.2        106.1        387.3        431.6       144.5           576.1
1984           120.2         54.8        34.4            15.6             282.3      91.6        316.7        107.2        423.9        583.7       212.7           796.4        l
1985           137.4         62.6        34.4            15.6             325.9    105.7         360.3        121.3        481.6        659.5       240.7           900.2        m
1986           154.6         70.4        34.4            15.6             369.4    119.7         403.8        135.3        539.1        794.2       289.3         1,083.5        l
1987           171.8         78.2        34.4            15.6             412.9    133.7         447.3        149.3        596.6        887.8       323.2         1,211.0
1988           189.0         86.0        34.4            15.6             456.4    147.8         490.8        163.4        654.2        981.4       357.1         1,338.5
1989           206.0         94.0        34.4            15.6             500.0    162.0         534.4        177.6        712.0      1,074.4       391.5         1,465.9
1990-2019      206.0         94.0        _              _--               521.2    169.2         521.2        169.2        690.4      1,120.6       408.9         1,529.5
IRR Water    = 9.21%
IRR Sewerage = 2.42%
IRR Total    = 6.16%
m0
0'>



SANEPAR                                                                        BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPtLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (IRR) CALCULATIONS
(thousand UPCs as of June 1979)
COSTS                                                          REVENUES
Connections (000)         Construction                        Operating             Construction & Operating
Year           Water    Sewerage    Water              Sewerage            Water  Sewerage        Water      Sewerage       Total           Water    Sewerage        Total
1980             10.5         3.0      2,543          1,479                  8         1         2,551         1,480       4,031              24            6            30
1981             42.0        12.0     3,361           2,539                 41         8         3,402         2,547       5,949             130          30            160
1982             72.0        51.0      2,391          2,393                 87        38         2,478         2,431       4,909             300         133            433
1983            103.0       110.0         62            118                133        86            195          204         399             497         366            863
1984            120.2       121.7         34             23                167       125            201          148         349             641         531          1,172
1985            137.4       121.7         34             23                193       137            227          160         387             721         531          1,252
1986            154.6       121.7         34             23                217       150            251          173         424             828         531          1,359
1987            171.8       121.7         34             23                242       163            276          186         462             925         531          1,456
1988            189.0       121.7         34             23                268       175            302          198         500           1,023         531          1,554
1989            206.0       121.7         34             23                293       188            327          234         561           1,120         531          1,651
1990-2019       206.0       121.7        --              --                306       194            306          194         500           1,168         531          1,699 l
a,
IRR Water = 7.92%
IRR Total   = 6.37%
CI-"
0'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f A



- 87 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 6
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COSTS AND TARIFFS
(June 1979 Prices in US$/m3)
State Water Company    Average Incremental Cost a/        Tariffs (1983)
(at 11% Discount Rate)       Incremental  Average
CORSAN
Water Supply                     .32                       .52       .27
Sewerage                         .55                      .42        .22
SANEPAR
Water Supply                     .33                       .36       .26
Sewerage                         .25                      .29        .21
CASAN
Water Supply                     .22                       .28       .24
Sewerage                         .49                      .22        .19
a/   Investment costs reflect a shadow foreign exchange rate factor
of 1.3.
Long-Run Marginal Cost
1.04      The long-run marginal cost of water supply and sewerage has been
estimated for each state based on the average incremental cost of investment
programs and operating cost projections. In the case of sewerage, this method
of calculation probably overstates the actual long-run marginal cost of
service since the present investment programs represent for the most part the
initial phases, and often most expensive phases, of sewerage development.
A comparison of incremental costs per m3 and projected 1983 average tariffs
per m3 1/ is presented in the following table:
1/   The tariff level which will prevail on completion of the project and
when the revenue provisions of the Tariff Law and Regulations become
fully effective.



- 88 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 6
1.05      For CORSAN AND SANEPAR the average incremental cost of water supply
exceeds the average 1983 tariff stated in terms of 1979 US dollars. Since
water tariff structures for CORSAN and SANEPAR are progrsssive, tariffs on
incremental water consumption (that above the basic 15 m block of consumption)
for these companies do exceed the average incremental cost of supply. In the
case of CASAN, both the average and incremental tariffs exceed the average in-
cremental cost of water. For all three SWCs the average incremental cost of
sewerage exceeds the 1983 average tariffs, and for CORSAN and CASAN it exceeds
incremental tariffs. However, as noted previously, the average incremental
cost may be overstated. Furthermore, sewerage tariffs for 1983 are based on
present tariff structures and may be expected to be more cost related through
implementation of appropriate sewerage tariff structures provided for under
the loan.



- 89 -
ANNEX 12
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   SECTOR REPORTS AND STUDIES
1.   BNH Basic Legislation
2.   Brazil National Tariff Law and Regulations
3.   Sanitation Sector Credit Lines (BNH)
4.   Accounting Manual for SWCs (BNH)
5.   Training Program for SWCs (ABES)
6.   PLANASA Statistics, 1968-1978 (BNH)
7.   Statistical Data:  Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, Sta. Catarina
B.   PROJECT RELATED REPORTS
1.   Global Viability Studies, Project SWCs
2.   Investment Programs, 1979-1983, Project SWCs
3.   BNH Annual Report, 1978
4.   BNH Tri-Annual Budget, 1979-1981
5.   BNH Audited Financial Statements, 1978
6.   Audited Financial Statements, 1978, Project SWCs
C.   DOCUMENTATION PREPARED BY BANK STAFF
1.   Preliminary Economic and Social Analysis
2.   Urban Poverty Analysis
3.   Detailed Financial Projections, 1979-1986, Project SWCs



:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I B R D14468
ORET R  t           0;                                                                            6S 1979
C DIi;;t ,§,/|4: 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t I a; nA//s  t i c                                                             c  e 0  n
>=3!4+;        |          >        \      i 5§        9            MACA:t     ;             :  0 5              ,      0   0      0 MA!APA
X   X      XrX                       X  A                X                 >                       eRES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INAI      tg
,j ,% \ : \ t PO~~~~~RTO VELHOt %+_gX/    
cr R10BRANCO (S_ <4Kt f 1 \ - < E<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. i -iD   z *    -Af i  3  5   *        X f    >          rX (        ~~~~~~~~         ~ ~~GOIANIAC))g      
E ,  ir  - [ 9 _'A -": ZC3 - 7 i ' F,' i I E\ r'E fSCAMP GRANDEa EOCIOT   0  
0   O   5   '  2 tq e u 4,, . 0 ; <- A ' > } >                                                       ELO HOIZONT
C .5 ,, s,, rT1- 3: ,  ii-Wtt ;->~F  Of:;IE fU
-T,6>      r0i*- V;' S -t k ;A - 59:'00  D 3
,  5-  !-  :0  05  0!  -;d0    FR-A4PlItfVigrr'
:    i  3   t   0;   ::   ;   i  J::   0  < \ ;   : 0 :  :  ,,7>//                                                         '; /~~~~~A    a  n t  i 
;   ;   t;   |   0     0 0 ; :  i';     0 ;   0 ! 0   ;   ;   g   i   ; i  i E v 3 E   > _   E O  3 .        G t      / 'n



