Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE  C O PY
Report No. P-2695-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
IN THE SOUTHERN STATES
March 10, 1980
This documnt has a rited disributon and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World anlk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979        February 11. 1980
Currency Unit      -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)            Cr$
US$1               -       Cr$26.85                 45.11
Cr$1               -       US$0.037                  0.022
ACRONYMS
BNH      -  Banco Nacional da Habitacao
CASAN    -  Companhia Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento
CORSAN   -  Companhia Rio Grandense de Saneamento
FAE      -  State Water and Sewerage Revolving Fund
ORTN     -  Obligacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
OT       -  Technical Supervisory Agency
PAHO     -  Pan American Health Organization
PLANASA  -  Plano Nacional de Saneamento
SABESP   -  Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Eatado de Sao Paulo
SANEPAR  -  Companhia de Saneamento do Parana
SATECIA  -  Programa de Asistencia Tecnica para o Desenvolvimento
Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Saneamento
S/SFS    -  Superintendencia do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento
SWCs     -  State Water Companies
UPC      -  Standard Capital Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SOUTHERN STATES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH)
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:       Companhia de Saneamento do Parana - SANEPAR:
Companhia Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento - CASAN; and
Companhia Rio Grandense de Saneamento - CORSAN
Amount:              US$130 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace
at 8.25% interest per annum.
Relending Terms
To Final
Beneficiaries:    Repayment in 18 to 30 years, including one to four
and one-half years of grace at 4.0% to 5.0% per annum
on the indexed principal, plus various one-time fees
amounting to about 3% of the loan amount, except for
the interest rate under subprogram in support of small
communities which is 2%-3%.
Project
Description:      The project would extend water supply services to 1.8
million people and sewerage services to .9 million
people in the southern states of Parana, Santa Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul. It would also improve water
supply to 3 million people who now receive deficient
service in the same states. The project would include
extensions and improvements of the water supply systems
in the capital cities of Parana (Curitiba) and Santa
Catarina (Florianopolis); extension and improvement of
the sewerage system in Curitiba; construction of a
sewerage system for Florianopolis; construction or
expansion and improvements of water supply systems in
125 medium-sized cities and 210 small communities; and
construction or improvement of sewerage systems in 33
medium-sized cities. The project would also include
production metering programs and installation of con-
sumption meters, preparation of water supply master plans
for Florianopolis and Curitiba, and technical assistance
for the BNH and the three state water companies. It is
estimated that about 54% of the final beneficiaries would
belong to families having incomes below the relative
poverty level. Indirect benefits in terms of water
pollution control would accrue especially to the urban
poor. The project involves the administrative risks
Thi docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
associated with carrying out complex and large investment
programs by state water companies. However, the exper-
ience already gained by the companies and by BNH and the
agreed subproject preparation and eligibility criteria
should ensure the successful execution of the project.
Estimated Cost:                                     --US$ Million Equivalent--
Local     Foreign    Total
Civil Works and Equipment
Water Supply                 109.3       47-0      156.3
Sewerage                    119.8        54.8      174.6
Engineering and
Technical Assistance          16.1        1.2       17.3
245.2      103.0      348.2
Physical Contingencies          24.5       10.3       34.8
Price Contingencies             39.3       16.7       56.0
63.8       27.0       90.8
Total                    309.0       130.0      439.0
Financing Plan.      Proposed IBRD Loan                                   130.0
States Water Supply and
Sewerage Revolving Funds                           219.5
Banco Nacional da Habitacao                           89.5
439.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
----US$ Million Equivalent----
Bank FY80   1981   1982   1983
Annual                         0.5      32.0   53.5   44.0
Cumulative                     0.5      32.5   86.0  130.0
Rate of Return;      The most important project benefits are not meaningfully
quantifiable. These include improved health, in parti-
cular lower infant nortality, increased labor produc-
tivity, and improved environment through reduced water
pollution. The rate of return based on incremental
revenues and costs (conservatively used as a proxy for
the minimum economic rate of return) is estimated at 7%.
Appraisal Report    Report No. 2658b-BR, dated March 7, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT IN THE SOUTHERN STATES
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$130 million to help finance a
water supply and sewerage project in the southern states of Parana, Santa
Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. Proceeds of the
loan would be relent to the state water companies of Parana, Santa Catarina,
and Rio Grande do Sul at 2% to 5% per annum (plus various one-time fees
amounting to about 3% of the loan amount) with principal subject to monetary
correction in accordance with changes in the national treasury bond index.
Relending would be for 18 to 30 years including grace periods of one to four
and one-half years. Payments due to the Bank but not yet collected from the
companies would be met from the general resources of BNH.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        The present Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple with accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the new
government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence
on imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Success on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and
balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of
living standards and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most
Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth
of public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and



private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports rose
from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports also
swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or
7% of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the
suddenly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic
problems of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the 1973-74 oil crisis was enhanced
by its strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities were reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control over imports, which were held approximately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit was reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged
7.6% per year between 1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the autho-
rities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to almost 6% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern
Brazil. The loss of food production cost the economy an estimated US$1.5
billion in foreign exchange. Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in manu-
factured and semi-processed exports, total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%,
compared to a 7.7% increase in merchandise imports. The contraction of
agricultural output and rapid buildup of international reserves contributed to
price pressures, maintaining inflation at about 40% for the third consecutive
year.
9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 9% over the previous year. Agricultural output



- 3 -
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 5.6%, somewhat below that of the preceding year. High demand, the
poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration of
inflation in 1979. Inflation for the year exceeded 75%, the highest rate
since 1964.
10.       Increased petroleum prices, the two consecutive bad harvests, and
a sharp rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to the progressive
deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the
continued rapid growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance
fell from a small surplus in 1977 to a US$0.4 billion deficit in 1978 and an
estimated US$2.3 billion deficit in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone
increased almost US$2 billion, or 40%, from 1978 to 1979.  The jump in LIBOR
costs, to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied, contributed to
raising gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to nearly
US$5 billion in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from
US$5.9 billion to US$8.5 billion, or from 3.0 to 3.7% of GDP.
11.       With amortization payments totalling about US$5.8 billion, external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$14.3 billion. Of this amount,
approximately US$3.0 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another
US$1.0 billion was provided by net direct foreign investments. Gross and
net foreign borrowings in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled about
US$10.3 billion and US$4.5 billion, respectively, compared to US$13.7 billion
and US$8.5 billion in 1978. No difficulties were encountered in attracting
the necessary credits, and the improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and
maturities available to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought
international reserves to about US$8.9 billion at the end of 1979, or equiv-
alent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross
medium- and long-term debt rose to around US$48 billion, or 21% of GDP.
12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success, and a new
package of measures was decreed in December. The most important of these
were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of
export subsidies and the prior deposit requirement on imports and the imposi-
tion of a temporary export tax on primary products; increased restrictions
on public enterprise investments, imports and borrowing; and a modification
of administered credit programs which is intended to reduce subsidies.
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been expanded
and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population
is now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible



-4-
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million
loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964 for housing.
A sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services from 60% to 75%. Efforts have also been made to
attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for
automotive use, and efforts are being made to induce energy conservation.
The results, however, have thus far been limited. With oil expected to
constitute US$9-10 billion (nearly half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in
1980, as compared to US$700 million (11%) in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms were set in motion in 1979
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the improvement of information flows and administrative control in the public
sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies and
public enterprises, incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidized credit programs formerly handled outside the budget through the
Central Bank, and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under
consideration are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities
of the Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating
power, and a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.
16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation,
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Toward
this end also, the domestic prices of agricultural commodities have been freed,
and a general reduction and liberalization of the tariff structure is under
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



review. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource
availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will continue
to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and
major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 6% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
an approximately constant debt service ratio. These projections are highly
sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, LIBOR rates, and the continued growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high
share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to
external events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be
expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast uptrend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's resource
balance is expected to remain negative though improving through 1985. Interest
payments on its large debt will rise rapidly throughout the period resulting
in a continuing current account deficit on the order of US$11-13 billion. As
a proportion of GDP the current account deficit is projected to peak at 4.3%
in 1980, falling gradually to about 2.4% by 1985.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11 billion in 1980 and remain in the range of US$10-13 billion
throughout the first half of the decade. To achieve this, annual gross
borrowings would have to grow from US$19 billion to almost US$27 billion
during the period. As a consequence, the net debt service ratio 1/ would peak
in 1980 at 68% and hold steady in the range of 60-63% through the remainder
of the period. Total outstanding medium- and long-term debt would reach 24%
of GDP in 1983 and decline slowly thereafter.
20.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and LIBOR rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will continue to make
projections subject to a wide range of error. The present scenario also
depends heavily on Brazil's continued ability to expand manufactured exports,
despite the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its con-
tinued access to international capital. A major effort is under way to reduce
dependence on foreign petroleum but significant results will not be apparent
for several years. On the other hand, Brazil remains a dynamic, highly
diversified, and resilient economy, and recent policy measures should greatly
strengthen the ability of the economic authorities to adjust to circumstances
as needed.
21.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
1/   Including both public and private debt.



- 6 -
for efficient import substitution offered by its large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate that
the adjustment process is not yet complete. The Government recognizes the
need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation. The task of economic management
will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust
to changing circumstances. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By January 31, 1980 the Bank had made 91 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$4,496.4 million (net of cancellations), of which 46 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements average US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in FY78,
and US$294.9 million in FY79. Disbursements for the first half of FY80
amounted to US$170 million and are expected to increase during the next few
years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY75-FY78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made
totalling US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in
FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million were made. In FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million
were made. The documents for a US$58 million loan for an industrial pollution
control project in Sao Paulo and for a US$114 million loan for a power
distribution project have recently (or are about to be) distributed to the
Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced on the preparation of a
suburban rail transport project in Porto Alegre, a rural education project
for the Northeast, and a second rural development project and a third
water supply and sewerage project both in Minas Gerais and two additional
power projects, one for a systems coordenation and control center for
ELETROBRAS, and the second for the expansion of ELETROSUL's transmission system.
We expect to propose loans for these projects in the near future.
24.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to nearly US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.
25.       As of January 31, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$482
million, of which US$329.7 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$152.3 million, US$115.1 million represent loans and US$37.2
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of January 31, 1980 is given
in Annex II.



-7-
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to
these ends that the proposed South States Water Supply and Sewerage Project
is mainly directed. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the State
of Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo and in the Northeast, for urban trans-
port in five major cities, and for sites and services and low-cost housing
are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups
in urban areas are in preparation, including a third water supply and sewerage
project for Minas Gerais, a second urban transport project, and a pollution
control project for Greater Sao Paulo. Previous loans for nutrition research
and development, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension and polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin as
well as for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte,
Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco were also designed
to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation, including a second
integrated rural development project in Minas Gerais and a rural education
project.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance in the urban sector, including
previous water supply and sewerage projects. Loans for rural development,
railways, electric power, industrial finance, highways, and agricultural
research and extension also have important institution building objectives.
Under the proposed project provision is made for the strengthening of the
Borrower, BNH, which is responsible for the overall coordination and supervi-
sion of water supply and sewerage in Brazil. Provision is also made for the
strengthening of the three state water supply companies involved.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical



-8-
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending
for agro-industries in the center and south of Brazil is also supporting this
objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective
is being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which uses Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Eleven co-financing operations
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Introduction
30.       The proposed loan to BNH would be the Bank's seventh loan for the
water supply and sewerage sector in Brazil and the first for this purpose in
the southern states. Total lending to date for the sanitation sector has been
US$320 million. In 1971, two loans were made for Greater Sao Paulo, one for
US$22.0 million for water distribution and storage (Loan 757-BR) and the other
for US$15.0 million (subsequently reduced to US$12.0 million) for sewage
collection and disposal (Loan 758-BR). These two loans were assumed by the
water company of the state of Sao Paulo (SABESP) in 1974 after it had taken
over the functions of the original borrowers. The original objective of Loan
757-BR to extend water supply services to 2.4 million people in the munici-
pality of Sao Paulo has been exceeded. By 1977, water services had been
extended to 3.3 million people. The project financed under Loan 758-BR suffered
initial delays resulting mainly from problems in the management of the original
borrower. SABESP, however, brought the sewerage works included under the
project to a successful completion. A combined Project Completion Report has
been prepared on the first water distribution and storage project and the first
sewage collection and disposal project for Greater Sao Paulo. The corresponding
combined Project Performance Audit Report is expected to be issued shortly. The
principal problems encountered by these projects were managerial and institution-
al. These problems were resolved in 1974 by the merger of the three main local
entities involved into SABESP, which joined the national sanitation program
(PLANASA) coordinated by BNH.



- 9 -
31.       In 1974, a loan was made to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) for
US$36.0 million (Loan 1009-BR) for relending to the state water company of
Minas Gerais for water supply and sewerage subprojects. A second loan for
US$40.0 million for the same purpose followed in 1976 (Loan 1309-BR). Execu-
tion of subprojects is well advanced and progressing satisfactorily and both
loans are fully committed. The third Sao Paulo loan (Loan 1525-BR) for
US$110.0 million made to BNH in early 1978 was to assist in the financing
of a large sewage collection and treatment project for Greater Sao Paulo
which forms part of a priority program of water pollution control.  Execution
of this project is proceeding satisfactorily. The most recent loan in this
sector was for US$100 million (Loan 1656-BR) and was made to BNH in February
1979 for water supply and sewerage projects in the northeast states of Bahia,
Pernambuco, and Ceara.  Performance under the revenue covenants for these
loans has been disappointing.
Sector Organization
32.       Municipalities traditionally had responsibility for the provision
of water supply and sewerage services in Brazil. During the sixties, the
acceleration of the urbanization process coupled with the financial, technical
and managerial inability of the municipalities to provide even minimum services,
prompted the federal and state governments to finance new water and sewerage
systems with budget grants to satisfy the most urgent needs. In this way,
some US$700 million were invested in urban and rural sanitation between
1960 and 1970. However, in 1970, the situation was far from satisfactory
and rapidly deteriorating. Less than 60% of the urban population had public
water service, and less than 30%, sewage collection services. These facts,
together with administrative and financial weakness of municipal governments,
aggravated by rapid urbanization, made apparent to the federal government
the need to establish a nationwide program to finance, promote and coordinate
the development of the water supply and sewerage sector.
33.       In 1971, the Government launched the Plano Nacional de Saneamento--
PLANASA (National Sanitation Plan)--under the aegis of BNH to increase the
availability of water and sewerage services to the urban population. The
initial goals of the program were to provide water services to 80% and sewerage
services to 50% of the urban population by 1980. These goals were revised in
1975 to establish more realistic targets for the large cities and include the
smaller communities under the program. The present goals of the program are:
to provide, by 1980, facilities which have the capacity of supplying water
services to 80% of the urban population in 80% of the urban communities (in-
cluding Brazil's nine metropolitan areas); sewerage services to all of the
state capitals and main urban centers (over 50,000 inhabitants); and some sewerage
services to smaller urban communities. In these respects, it should be noted
that the Brazilian definition of urban population includes people living in small
towns in rural areas. Over the 1971-83 period, the Government plans to invest
US$7.5 billion equivalent (in 1978 prices) in the sector, which compares with
an original estimate of US$2.5 million (in 1971 prices).



- 10 -
34.       The main focus of the PLANASA program is to help the states develop
their own organizations in the water supply and sewerage sector. To enter the
program, a state must sign an agreement with BNH establishing a statewide water
and sewerage company, draw up a statewide sector investment plan and provide
for state guarantee of BNH loans. The statewide organization of the program
has two major advantages. First, it makes possible the establishment of
statewide tariff structures which permit a cross-subsidization mechanism
within the state. Second, the statewide organization derives economies of scale
from centralized management of the water supply and sewerage system.
35.       The PLANASA program is financed one-half by BNH and one-half by the
states through revolving water and sewerage funds (Fundos de Agua e Esgotos--
FAEs). BNH has set up four credit lines to finance water supply and sewerage
projects (para 49).
The Development of PLANASA
36.       The PLANASA program is progressing well, although at a slower pace
than expected. All of the 22 states of Brazil have entered the program and
more than 2,100 municipalities all over the country have already benefitted
from it. At present, about 75% of the urban population is receiving water
supply services as compared with less than 60% of a smaller urban population
when the government started the program in 1971. It is estimated that PLANASA's
water supply objectives will be met by 1982 or 1983. The levels of service
attained and projected for the provision of sewerage services present a dif-
ferent picture. At present, about 35% of the population receives sewerage
services as compared with 30% in 1971 when the program began. This slower
progress of sewerage is the result of its relatively high cost and the technical
complexity of building and operating adequate sewerage systems in some areas in
Brazil. It is unlikely that the major cities of Brazil will receive sewerage
services at the levels envisaged by PLANASA much before 1990.
Sector Tariffs and Legal Framework
37.       In 1975, in order to define a suitable framework for the sector, BNH
hired consultants to study the various aspects of water supply and sewerage
tariffs, the ownership of water resources and the administrative responsibili-
ties for the provision of water supply and sewerage services. As a result of
this initiative, the Brazilian Congress approved a tariff law for the sector
on May 11, 1978. On November 6, 1978, the Government issued regulations
covering the application of the law. This legislation allows the state water
companies to charge tariffs based on the cost of service, which will enable
them, if they operate efficiently, to earn a rate of return of up to 12%
on operational investments. The legislation provides further that by 1983,
state water companies (SWCs) must attain the position where revenues cover
operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation, and provide a rate of
return on operating investments, after covering these expenses, which will
produce sufficient cash flow to cover debt service. This objective is to be
reached by a gradual program of tariff adjustments. Over the 1980-82 period,
each company will carry out a financial program to gradually reach the minimum
return stipulated in the legislation by 1983.



- 11 -
There were delays in the granting of tariff increases during 1979. Interim
tariff increases of 35% have been granted to most SWCs, and further increases
are under review. The first increases for the project SWCs have been approved.
38.       The new legislation also deals with some important aspects of
the structure (as distinct from the level) of tariffs. It establishes
four categories of consumers: residential, commercial, industrial, and
official and stipulates a progressive tariff system which allows for cross-
subsidization between lower and higher income consumers. Further, it estab-
lishes that water tariffs for low-income consumers should not exceed 35% of
one ORTN. On the institutional side, the new legislation assigns to BNH the
responsibility for overseeing the financial situation of the companies operat-
ing in the sector, including making recommendations to the Government for rate
adjustments.
Southern Region and the Project Area
39.       The project area consists of the three southern states of Brazil:
Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul. Their area is 562,000 km2,
6.6% of Brazil's land area. Their population at the end of 1978 was estimated
to bh 21.1 million, or about 18% of the country's total. Urban population
represents 48% of the region's total population. Overall population growth
is at a rate of 3.1% p.a., with the urban growth rate 4.1% p.a. and the rural
growth rate 2.3%. This rapid rate of urbanization is expected to result in 60%
of the region's population living in urban areas by 1990.
40.       The southern region can be considered as one of middle income; its
participation in national income is about 18% or the same proportion its popu-
lation bears to the total population. Major economic activities are agricul-
ture and cattle raising. Agriculture exports (coffee, soybeans and meat)
account for 30% of Brazil's total exports. There has been recent industrial
development, particularly in agro-industry and petrochemicals.
41.       Health statistics indicate that infant mortality in the southern
region is below the national average of 70 per 1,000 live births. However,
infant mortality in Curitiba and Florianopolis is substantially higher than the
regional average, reaching 81 per 1,000 in the latter city. Enteritis and
diarrheal diseases as causes of infant deaths rank first in Santa Catarina
and second in Parana and Rio Grande do Sul. These diseases are closely associ-
ated with poor sanitation conditions and especially with unsafe water and waste
disposal.
Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels
42.       The average water service level for the southern region's urban
population served by the project SWCs in December 1978 was 75%, in line with
the national average. In Parana the service level was 79%, in Rio Grande do
Sul 75%, and in Santa Catarina 65%. Only 10% of the urban population in the



- 12 -
region is served with sewerage.  In the few cities served with sewerage in
Parana and Rio Grande do Sul, service levels are very low (17% and 6% respec-
tively) and sewerage services are almost nonexistent in Santa Catarina.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
43.       In June 1978 the Brazilian Government held discussions with the
Bank concerning Bank participation in the implementation of PLANASA in the
southern region. Bank staff assisted BNH identify and subsequently prepare a
project for the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, and Parana, which
have strong executing capacities to carry out the large investment requirements
for 1980-82. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Southern States Water
Supply and Sewerage Project" (No. 2658b-BR dated January 29, 1980) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations with the Borrower,
Guarantor, state water companies, and related state governments took place in
Washington from November 26 to 30, 1979. A supplemental project data sheet,
including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is
presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would, through the provision of water supply
and sanitation services, improve the environment and health conditions of
the population in the project area, strengthen BNH's project preparation,
appraisal and supervision capabilities, and improve sewerage pricing policies.
In addition, the project would assist the state water companies in making
institutional improvements in the areas of planning, operations, and finance
and accounting, through technical assistance, and would improve the financial
position of the state water companies through the establishment of adequate
tariff levels.
45.       The project consists of a group of water supply and sewerage sub-
projects to be carried out in the states of Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio
Grande do Sul in the period 1980-82. The subprojects are included in the SWCs'
approved investment programs and represent about 81% of the total investment
expenditures to be made by the SWCs during the period. The proposed Bank loan
would finance the foreign exchange component of expenditures for procurement
contracts awarded by the SWCs for eligible subprojects submitted to the Bank
between loan signature date and March 31, 1983. The project includes the
following components:
(a) extensions and improvements of the water supply and sewerage
systems in the capital city of Parana (Curitiba);
(b) improvements in the water supply system and construction of a
sewerage system for the capital city of Santa Catarina
(Florianopolis);



- 13 -
(c) construction, expansion, and improvements of water supply systems
in approximately 25 medium-sized cities in the state of Parana,
30 medium-sized cities in the state of Santa Catarina and
60 medium-sized cities in the state of Rio Grande do Sul;
(d) construction or expansion of sewerage systems in approximately
seven medium-sized cities of Parana, four medium-sized cities in Santa
Catarina, and 22 medium-sized cities in Rio Grande do Sul;
(e) construction or expansion of water supply systems in approximately
135 small communities in Parana, 40 small communities in Santa
Catarina and 35 small communities in Rio Grande do Sul;
(f) execution of production metering programs and installation of
consumption meters;
(g) engineering services for detailed design and construction super-
vision, and preparation of water supply master plans for
Florianopolis and Curitiba;
(h) consulting services for institutional improvements according to the
requirements of individual SWCs; and
(i) technical assistance to improve BNH project preparation,
appraisal and supervision, and information systems in the
water supply and sewerage sectors.
The Borrower
46.       The Borrower (BNH), was established in 1964 as a financially and
administratively autonomous institution. Since 1967, it has been under the
overall responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. BNH's main activities
are to finance, through intermediary institutions, low- and medium-income
housing, urban development and sanitation programs. A board of directors
and executive committee administer the institution. BNH has eleven regional
agencies to coordinate its activities at the state level. BNH's principal
source of funds is the Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de Servico--FGTS, a
national retirement fund. Its other sources of funds include interest and
principal repayments on outstanding loans and interest on national treasury
bonds. Net receipts of the FGTS increased from US$424.4 million equivalent
in 1971 to US$1.7 billion equivalent in 1978 and total funds available for
investment increased from US$0.7 billion equivalent to US$3.4 billion
equivalent over the same period. BNH's financial position is sound and its
resources are expected to be sufficient to carry out its planned investment
program.
47.       In September 1967, BNH established a department, the Superintendencia
do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento (S/SFS), which is responsible for water
and sewerage activities. The S/SFS consists of three divisions responsible
respectively for the review and approval of each SWC's water supply and
sewerage investment program, the supervision of the Technical Supervisory
Agencies (OTs) which have been retained for each state by BNH to review



- 14 -
project design and assist in supervision and construction, and the authoriza-
tion of disbursements and monitoring of financial performance of the SWCs.
Project technical review and project supervision are carried out by the 11 BNH
regional offices each of which is responsible for sector investment programs
in one or more states. These offices are a microcosm of the S/SFS Department
in BNH headquarters and operate under well defined guidelines. ihe functions
of the offices include supervision of loan agreements between BNH and the
SWCs, control of disbursements, updating of physical and disbursement schedules
of projects, monitoring of the performance of the FAEs and the OTs, and super-
vision of the SWCs' operations, technical assistance and training programs.
48.       Up to 1975, the PLANASA program did not develop as expected, due to
weak organization and management in many of the SWCs, underestimated project
costs, poor engineering studies, overoptimistic scheduling, and a shortage of
materials and equipment. In addition, S/SFS activities were centralized at
BNH headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, where incomplete information was received
from the SWCs, further delaying project review and approval by overloaded
staff. In early 1976, BNH issued new regulations decentralizing PLANASA and
delegating more responsibility and authority to the regional offices in order
to speed up implementation. Under the new tariff legislation, BNH requires
the SWCs to prepare integrated investment programs and financing plans and
the quality of the planning and investment programming has greatly improved.
Through technical assistance to be provided under the project, BNH is expected
to be able to assist the Bank in project supervision (Section 3.05(a) and (c)
and Schedule I, Part E of the draft Loan Agreement). Consideration will be
given to the possibility of Bank sector loans for water supply and sewerage once
BNH strengthens its project appraisal and supervision capability enough to
operate independently.
Lending Procedures
49.       Under the project, BNH would make subloans equivalent to US$220.0
million for subprojects in the three project states under its four different
credit lines: the basic line, and three supplementary lines, FINEST I, II AND
III. Part of these loans would be financed with the proposed US$130 million
Bank loan with the exception of FINEST I which would be financed in its entirety
by BNH. Under the basic line of credit BNH finances 50% of subproject costs
in medium-sized and large cities. BNH lends to financial agents, which are
the state banks. The state bank onlends BNH's funds together with an equal
amount from the state's water and sewerage revolving fund (FAE) to the bene-
ficiary, the SWC. FAE resources are obtained from allocation of up to 5% of
a state's annual tax revenue. BNH lends to the state banks at 4% to 5% per
annum (to the southern states) with monetary correction, in accordance
with changes in the national treasury bond index, with amortization periods
ranging from 18 years (water supply) to 30 years (sewerage) including grace
periods from one to four and one-half years. The state banks onlend to the
SWCs at 5% to 6%. Otherwise the same conditions apply. In addition, BNH
charges to the SWCs various one-time fees and levies equal to about 3% of
each loan.
50.       The first of BNH's supplementary credit lines is FINEST I, which
was set up to assist the states to meet their obligation to finance 50% of



- 15 -
subproject costs. If 5% of a state's tax revenues is not sufficient to
cover 50% of subproject costs, the state can borrow the balance from BNH
under FINEST I. The terms and conditions of FINEST I loans are the same as
those of the basic credit line, except that loans are made to the states
rather than to the SWCs.
51.       Under FINEST II BNH provides supplemental financing for urban
projects up to an amount equivalent to that which the state allocates to small
communities. BNH finances 100% of subproject costs. Under FINEST III BNH
finances 50% of costs of subprojects for small communities, with the state
financing the other half from its own resources. Under FINEST II and III
the interest rate is 2% below the normal rate of interest. FINEST II and III
allow the SWCs to step up their investment in small communities without unduly
impairing their financial positions.  BNH's relatively long amortization
periods reflect the useful lives of the subprojects to be financed. Depending
on the relative movements of exchange rates and the index used by BNH for
monetary correction, the effective interest rate on the Bank loan could be
higher than the onlending rates. Since, in addition, the maturities of BNH's
loans would exceed the maturity of the Bank loan, BNH's debt service payments
to the Bank are likely to exceed recoveries by BNH from the states. BNH's
financial position is expected to be strong enough to absorb this without
difficulty.
The Beneficiaries
Organization
52.      The three beneficiaries and executing agencies for the project will
be Companhia de Saneamento do Parana (SANEPAR), Companhia Catarinense de Aguas
e Saneamento (CASAN), and Companhia Rio Grandense de Saneamento (CORSAN), all
located in the state capitals. The SWCs are owned by their respective state
governments. Each has a Board of Directors appointed by the State Governor
for a period of four years. Subsequent to changes in state governments in
March 1979, new Presidents and Boards of Directors were appointed for the
project SWCs. Apart from the President, who is the chief executive officer,
each director is the working head of one of the functional departments.
Organizational structures have evolved with the assistance of consultants.
Each company has departments for technical operations, administration, and
finance and accounting. The management of all three SWCs is satisfactory.
Technical Operations
53.      The SWCs and the state governments establish the priorities for the
extension of water supply and sewerage services in the state based on assessed
needs in the various communities. Engineering studies and design as well as
supervision of works are executed mainly through local consultants, which
are satisfactory. The SWCs' engineering units and the Technical Supervisory
Agencies (OTs) review designs and monitor construction. Construction activities
are carried out by local contractors, which are experienced and capable.
Projects have generally been implemented on schedule, and project programming
and control procedures are now being strengthened to handle the increased volume
of construction in the period 1980-82. Technical operations are satisfactory,
especially considering the difficulties of operating with a wide geographic



- 16 -
dispersion of small municipalities. Although unaccounted for water is not a
serious problem, a production metering program will be carried out under the
project to reduce it to acceptable levels (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Each SWC has a consumption metering program. Financing is provided
under the project for consumption metering subprojects (Schedule I of the draft
Loan Agreement). Each SWC has a maintenance program. The training programs of
the SWCs are appropriate to requirements.
Financial Operations
54.       Commercial operations (billings and collections) are satisfactory in
all three project SWCs. Technical assistance would be provided by consultants
satisfactory to the Bank to strengthen the financial planning and managerial
capabilities of the SWCs (Sections 3.05(a) and (b) and Schedule 1, Part D of
the draft Loan Agreement). SANEPAR and CASAN have internal auditors and
CORSAN would establish an internal audit office by December 31, 1981 (Section
5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). All SWCs retain independent external
auditors and are subject to audits from BNH and the state government.
Financial Performance
55.       The financial position of CORSAN is satisfactory while both SANEPAR
and CASAN are expected to incur net losses in 1979 and to be in a tight cash
position. To improve the finances of all project SWCs, water and sewerage
tariffs would be set and maintained at levels which would comply with the
tariff legislation by 1983 (para 37) (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The federal and state governments and BNH would support and assist the SWCs to
meet the revenue covenant (Sections 4.05 and 6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). It would be an event
of default under the loan if any event takes place or action occurs including
the setting or adjustment of tariffs, which would materially and adversely
affect the financial condition of BNH or the SWCs (Section 7.01(d) of the
draft Loan Agreement). In 1980 tariffs would be increased by up to 45% and
in the two subsequent years will rise gradually in real terms so as to achieve
the levels required by 1983. The proposed tariff increases would be provided
to the Bank for comment before the introduction of necessary adjustments.
56.      Financial projections prepared for the Project SWCs based on gradual
increases in tariffs in compliance with the provisions of the tariff
legislation indicate that in 1981 and subsequent years CORSAN, SANEPAR, and
CASAN will be in an acceptable financial position and be able to meet their
cash requirements.
57.      Water tariff structures in the Project SWCs are satisfactory.  However,
sewerage tariffs are now expressed as a percentage of the water charge. and are
not cost related. Therefore, each SWC would prepare a proposal for tariffs



- 17 -
for sewerage including a schedule for putting the tariffs proposed into effect.
BNH would furnish these studies to the Bank for approval not later than
January 31, 1981, and put them into effect not later than January 31, 1982
(Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
58.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$439 million equiva-
lent with a foreign exchange component of US$130 million equivalent. The
cost estimate includes, on average, 10% of base project cost for physical
contingencies, given the relatively advanced status of engineering studies.
Engineering and technical assistance consulting services for the SWCs and BNH
total 2,900 man-months and their cost is expected to average US$6,000 per
man-month. Price escalation of 7% p.a. has been applied to the base cost
and physical contingencies.
59.      The financing plan for the project would consist of subloans from
BNH totalling US$220.0 million equivalent with the remainder of project costs
financed by state revolving funds (FAEs). The proposed Bank loan would
finance US$130 million of the BNH subloans under its basic credit line and
FINEST II and III representing 100% of the foreign exchange costs. The
increase in the additional working capital requirements of the water companies,
amounting to US$51 million, would be met by internally generated funds. The
federal and the state governments and BNH would provide any additional finan-
cing that may be needed for the project (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement and Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The state
governments would provide whatever funds and other facilities are needed for
the operation and maintenance of completed subprojects (Section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution and Monitoring
60.      CORSAN, SANEPAR, and CASAN would execute the project during the
period 1980-82. BNH would be responsible for project coordination. A
construction schedule satisfactory to the Bank has been discussed with the
water companies and BNH for subprojects in the larger cities included in
the project. Schedules for subprojects in other towns would be prepared
annually during project execution. The beneficiary water companies would
retain consultants for the design of individual subprojects. BNH's OTs
would carry out the technical review of subprojects and BNH would carry out
the financial and economic analysis. BNH and the OTs would supervise the
execution of the project.
61.      Subprojects for fifteen cities, representing about 50% of total
investment, were reviewed in detail during appraisal and found technically
sound and the least-cost alternative in each case. The Bank would review
all subprojects in Curitiba and Florianopolis and all subprojects for medium-
sized cities and small communities costing US$2.0 million equivalent or more
(Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Subprojects costing less than
US$2.0 million would be approved by BNH subject to ex-post-facto review by the
Bank on a selective basis. The delegation of approval authority to BNH for
subprojects under US$2.0 million is consistent with its project appraisal
capabilities.



- 18 -
62.       To permit satisfactory monitoring of project execution the three
SWCs would prepare and submit to the Bank five year financial projections
before March 31 each year (Section 5.05(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
They would also establish by June 30, 1980 a system of monitoring indicators
satisfactory to the Bank. Under this system each SWC would prepare a quarterly
progress report (Sections 3.07(b)(iii) and 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The SWCs would also prepare a report on the execution and initial operation of
the project, not later than four months after loan closing. On the basis of
these reports BNH would prepare and submit to the Bank the Project Completion
Report not more than six months after loan closing (Section 3.07(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Selection Criteria
63.      Each subproject would have to meet the following criteria:  (a) it
would have to be included in the most recent five year investment plan of the
respective SWC which had the approval of BNH and is acceptable to the Bank;
(b) it would have to represent the least cost solution for providing the
service to a given community. In addition, in the case of subprojects to be
carried out in medium-sized or large cities, the internal financial rate of
return would have to be at least equal to the average cost of capital to the
respective SWC. Discount rates to be used in the economic analysis would be
agreed between BNH and the Bank before the first subproject is submitted for
Bank consideration. Suprojects for medium-sized and large cities that do not
meet these criteria would be eligible for financing only if additional social and
economic justification is provided and is satisfactory to the Bank; (c) it would
have to be designed in accordance with sound engineering practices. In addition,
in the case of small communities subprojects would have to comply with BNH's
engineering guidelines for small communities, which are acceptable, and the
subproject per capita cost would not exceed US$180 equivalent. If the per capita
cost exceeds $180, the subproject would only be eligible for financing if it is
redesigned in accordance with lower acceptable standards or staged so as to
fulfill this criterion. If, after redesign, the subproject still does not meet
this financial criterion, it would be eligible for Bank financing only if accept-
able economic and social justifications were presented to the Bank (Schedule 4 to
the draft Loan Agreement). BNH and the SWCs would ensure that subprojects are
selected in accordance with the agreed upon criteria (Section 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
64.      All contracts with estimated values exceeding US$400,000 equivalent
for equipment and US$3.0 million for civil works would be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Brazilian



- 19 -
suppliers of equipment and materials would receive a margin of preference of
15%, or the applicable import duty, whichever is less. All other contracts
of smaller size would be procured under locally advertised competitive bidding,
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. These procedures would allow
foreign suppliers and contractors to bid. Due to the large number of con-
tracts expected, Bank prior review would be limited to contracts for equipment
over US$1.0 million and for civil works over US$4.0 million. Since virtually
all the equipment and materials for the project are manufactured in Brazil and
available at competitive prices, most supply contracts are expected to be won
by local suppliers. The civil works contracts are also expected to be won by
local contractors. Consultants would be recruited under procedures and terms
acceptable to the Bank.
65.      Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 54% of
BNH disbursements on its subloans for eligible subprojects (equivalent to
the estimated foreign exchange cost) when BNH finances 50% of the sub-project
cost under BNH's regular program and under its subprogram for small communities.
Bank disbursements would also cover 54% of the costs of the technical assistance
program for the SWCs. Under its subprogram for the supplemental financing of
urban areas where BNH provides loans equivalent to 100% of the subproject cost,
Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 27% of BNH disbursements.
Disbursements would be in accordance with statements of expenditures to be
submitted by BNH to the Bank. While BNH subloans include an amount to cover the
SWC administrative costs of each subproject, these expenditures would not be
eligible for Bank financing. The documentation in support of the statement of
expenditures would be retained by BNH and made available for inspection during
the course of project supervision. Bank disbursements would cover 100% of the
foreign cost of the technical assistance. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1983 (Sections 2.02(a) and 2.04 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Benefits
66.      The project represents the least-cost solution to meeting the
project's major objective of improving the health and environment of the
inhabitants in the three project states. It is estimated that the project
would provide water supply to 1.8 million new consumers and increase urban
water supply service levels for the SWCs from 77% at the end of 1979 to 83%
in 1983. The project would also improve service to about 3.0 million of the
SWCs' existing consumers. The project would extend sewerage services to about
0.9 million persons and increase urban sewerage service levels for the SWCs
from 10% at the end of 1979 to 20% in 1983. The facilities constructed for
both water and sewerage would allow continued expansion of connections
throughout the 1980 decade. Through the technical assistance component of
the project, the management and technical operations of the project SWCs would
be improved and BNH would be strengthened to enable it to assume greater
responsibility in project selection and supervision.
Internal Rate of Return
67.       Rates of return on the Bank-financed investment programs in each
state have been calculated using revenues as a proxy for economic benefits.



- 20 -
The investments recognized in the calculation use a shadow exchange rate
factor of 1.3 and the tariffs are those which will result from application
of the tariff law and regulations. The returns for each state's investments
in water supply and water supply and sewerage combined and for the project
overall are presented in the following table:
PERCENT RETURN ON PROJECT INVESTMENTS
Total
CORSAN    SANEPAR    CASAN    Project
Water Supply                    9           8        12         9
Water Supply and Sewerage       7           6         7         7
68.       The internal rates of return on water supply investments for the
three states combined and for the individual states indicate that average
water tariffs will generally be close to long-run average incremental costs
estimated on the basis of the same investment programs (discounted at an
estimated opportunity cost capital of 11%), while sewerage tariffs would be
lower. Tariffs on incremental water consumption (that above the basic 15 m
block of consumption) exceed the long-run average incremental cost of water
for all three SWCs. The sewerage returns reflect the existing tariff structure,
where the charge for sewerage is 80% of the water charge. A more cost-related
tariff is to be implemented in the future which would likely improve actual
returns on sewerage and the project overall. These internal rates of return
based on revenues understate the real economic return as the benefits exclude
improved health, in particular lower infant mortality, increased labor produc-
tivity, environmental improvements from sewage collection and treatment,
and improved services to existing water consumers. The use of revenues
as benefits under the SWCs progressive tariff structure also understates
the benefits of supplying water to the poor where the initial increment of
low-price water ensures most of the health benefits from an improved supply
to low-income consumers who would benefit from a substantial share of project
investments.
69.       The principal adverse factors which could affect the expected rates
of return are an increase in construction costs and a reduction in sales
growth below the levels forecasted. Given the status of project engineering,
where 50% of the design is completed and cost estimates are considered appro-
priate, it is deemed unlikely that actual costs on the total project (expressed
in constant prices) would exceed the forecast by more than 8%. This would
reduce the overall combined rate of return from 7% to 6%. It is not considered
probable that the growth in sales would be more than 12% below the forecast.
Were such a lower growth pattern to materialize, the toal combined rate of
return would decline from 7% to 5%.
Impact on Poverty Groups
70.      The direct impact of the project on the poverty group, defined as
families whose monthly income is equal to or less than three times the minimum



- 21 -
wage (US$257) was estimated by calculating the proportion of urban poor in the
incremental population served by major subprojects representing about 50% of
total project cost. In mid 1979, of the 6.1 million persons served by the SWCs,
about 3.3 million (54%) were from the poverty group and the overall service
level for this group was 57%. Of the 1.8 million water supply beneficiaries of
the project, about 1.1 million would be urban poor thereby increasing the urban
poor service levels to 71%. Sewerage services for the urban poor are virtually
nonexistent in the project states. The project investments for the most part
represent the initial sewerage programs for the project cities and as such will
cover commercial areas and those with high population densities. These areas
are generally not populated with urban poor who are more often dispersed around
the peripheries of the cities. Thus, the project sewerage beneficiaries among
the urban poor are only 139,000 out of 0.9 million total, sufficient to provide
only a 2% sewerage service level to the urban poor in 1983.  It is estimated
that investments directly related to urban poor services would amount to
US$159 million, equivalent to 36% of project costs. The urban poor component
of the Bank loan would thus be US$47 million. Because individual house
connections and waterborne sewerage service to the urban poor may not be
affordable to some consumers, BNH is carrying out studies on low-cost techno-
logy options to extend services to low-income areas where conventional systems
are not technically feasible or economically affordable by the users. BNH
would make the results of these studies available to the Bank for comments,
together with proposals to extend their results to the project states (Section
4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank is providing technical assistance
to BNH for these studies through the UNDP Global Program on Low Cost Water and
Sanitation Techniques involving several countries for which the Bank is the
executing agency.
Affordability of Project Services
71.      The tariff legislation specifies that the minimum monthly charges for
water should not exceed 35% of one ORTN (US$4.95) and the combined charge for
water and sewerage should not exceed 50% of one ORTN (US$7.09). The existing
monthly charges for minimum consumption of water range from US$1.61 to US$2.81
and are therefore well within Government guidelines. These low tariffs are
possible because of the cross-subsidization provided in the tariff structures.
Since approximately 70% of the urban poor earn more than one minimum wage
per family, it may be concluded that water would be provided to most families
at affordable prices. In the case of low-income consumers, water connection
charges are financed interest free or at low rates of interest over a 24
month period which makes connections affordable to most of the urban poor.
Project Risks
72.      The proposed project involves the administrative risks associated with
the carrying out of complex and large investment programs by the state water
companies. Not all of the subprojects are yet firmly identified, nor would all of
them be subject to prior appraisal by Bank staff. However, the project execution
experience of the SWCs indicates that they have the capacity to implement the
project and there are no financial constraints. The subproject preparation and
eligibility criteria developed should ensure the soundness of the investments
undertaken.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional da
Habitacao, the state water companies of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande
do Sul and their respective state governments as well as the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 10, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-23-
ANNEX I
page 1
IEAIZ - SOCZA  t8DCAlOIU DAl suEZ!
Z  L                         roi.  8cE CR os (AOJsTZO AERAGS
UJD  AU  (TROUSA   SQ- EK- I                                                                        KAT IS  C  Sn
TOTAL   S-        512.0                                                    ShM          Sme       M.1 51Cm
ACUOLTUAL    2026.3                                     mm! IsCUIT       cGrADC    mco*a             INCOMC
16O  /     1970 &  13ThI&             K azGo  j    oOU        020U1 Li
GO1 PU  CAPITA  (S)                    320.0   5J 0.0    1570.0               1126.4      1942.6      3075.3
B SG! COUSSSlo  P   CA?ltu
(ULOGRAMS Of COAL cqnvsAL)          332.0        474.0      731.0           963.1      16. 7        251Zs.6
POPSU1A1 MND n1L STATISTICS
POY"101. In-TM  (U1=003)             7I. 5       95.2      116.1
0nAl P096t"   (?ucUT oF TouL) 46.1                55.9       60.7.            59.3       51.2         72.1
POPOLAlC PROJECTIONS
POUUXO  z   SEL  2000 (X30L11)                          200.0
STAflOCATL POI?UUoU  CxlLoUs)                             361.0
nuA  SSTIONa   OOpLAl13 U  IZACUD                      2075
POPULA!2ON DuSITY
PU  Sq. Ic.                         9.0         11.0       14.0            23.5        28.2         33.5
PER sq. zM. aGcDLTUIL LAWD          U.0         49.0       57.0            80.5       100.5         91.3
POPMUlION AGt StUCOCC  (?UCDIT)
0-14 Q58.                          43.6         42.6      41.7             40.9        35.4         L3.3
15-64 nS.                           53.8         56.3      55.1             5i.4        56.3        57.5
65 US. UtD AOVE                      2.6          3.1        3.2             3.9         5.1          5.7
POPULaIOI G20tU CATE (P3CZTs)
TOTAL                                3.0         2.9        2.9              2.6        1.7          2.1
ISAM                                5.5          4.8        4.5             3.7         3.0
CtCD  SIXTH RATE (PU  TECSUID)        i0.0        35.0       36.0             32.8       27.5         31.4
CRUDE ODTAt UC   (PIZ IWUSAID)        11.0         9.0        9.0              S.5        9.1          8.2
CtOSS REPRODUCTION lATI                2.6         2.6        2.4              2.6        L.J          1.9
IA16ILT P1.8A1MIG
ACCzrfLS. 10UL. (COUSADS)             ..       111.0     203.6
DutS (15 ! or Mnul   10)    ..                   1.6         *-            17.7
FOOD MED ieirRrroN
ND!X 0o FOOD P8tODUSION
PU CAU1  (1969-71-100)              9.6        102.0      120.0            99.4       102.0        9".7
PU CAPT  5017?.! OF
CAL0111S (PUCUNT Of
EquxRis  1SS)                   101.0.       0 6.0      105.0           107.0       120.8       112.7
tOIUS (cGAuS PO DOY)               61.0         66.0      62.1             60.4        80.9         70.3
Of IMCa  *1283 AMD PULZ          38.0         39.0      33.6             28.3        31.3
C ILD (AGU  L-4) MORTALITY SATE       13.0        10.0        9.0             6.7         5.1          2.5
Lun CXpwTAnCT Ax 8E  CASL )    57.0               61.0      62.0             63.6        65.6         6S.7
W3ANT ICORTALITY RAT  (?U
ThOUSAID)                               ..          ..         ..            76.1        45.5         20.8
ACCZSS TO SAT WAIT (IUCUZ o0
POPU.ATION )
TAL                                  ..         56.3       77.1            63.4        69.4         73.9
1A                                    ..        77.7      88.8             79.5        85. 1       94 6
RUAL                                 ..         29.0      56.8             3S.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS T0 ErUTA 015OS63 (PUCUIT
OrP OPULATILON)
TOTAL                                ..         59.9     6(. 8             58.8        70.1
U1AN                                 ..         86.1      93.7             77.8        88.3
UL                                   ..         26.5      31.7             24.5        33.2
POPUATILON ?M P?  SICLA            3600.0       1910.0    1650.0           1861.9      L343.2        961.8
POULton ?U  tSIiG  V508                ..       3220.0         ..           933.7       765.0        397.8
POPULAT1ON Pt ROSpITAL SCD
TOTAL                             275.0        260.0     260.0            563.4       197.6       240.6
URBANI                               ..           ..         ..           279.4       260.2
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..          1160.9      1055.0
AMISSlOMS PM HOSPITAL UO               ..         1.0          ..            25.7        17.3         19.2
NOUS ZNC
AVERCE SrZE OF SOOSUOLD
TOTAL                               5.1          4.8        4.9             5.0         4.7
..                                              4.6        4.7             4.8         4.4
RL1AL                                ..          5.2       5.3              5.3         5-1
AVtACE V4NSCR OF PSONS PE  ROOM
TQTAL                                 ..         1.1        I.IL/S          1.3         I.l           .
31AII                                ..          L.0        L.21t           1.3         1.2
- Sa9AL                               *-         1.2        1.2L/           1.5         1.2
ACCESS TO .LECTRICITY (PIDOUT
Of DWJ.LmiCS)
TOTAL                              38.7         47.6       63.0            54.3        66.0
71                                   ..         75.6      d4.9             80.I         5.1 
tOtL                                  ..         8.4       19.2             14.2



-24-                                            ANNEX I
ILAZL - SOCAL I!4ZCATOIS DATA Sn!!?
- eo0sT .tsC!N? !st.      -
SAJM         SALE       . t   I C.4U
lMM  t8C0T       1OCRA C    Lrcoig          LMCO,u
194  ab      1970 lb  I5TL-AT! lb      3AcIoN /c   CRwp /d    03t0? /,
MSCAyION
ADJUSTO  UMouIMr  usr0os
OL'AI:        SOSAL                  95.0         83.0       90.0             107.3       101.7        107.6
MALS                   97.0         83.0       89.0            109.1        110.0
1UALI                  93.0         83.0       90.0            107.4        92.8
UCrsJL:    ALM                       11.0         27.0       m.O              40.3        51.2          t9.7
w.AI                   11.0         27.0        Mr.o            40.4        54.,
1UEAZA                 100         27.0       20.0             39.0        43.7
0CA!OX      tO1L. (I 0  S.MCDAX)  19.0             17.0       *7.0/           1.          18.3
U!DUlA                               33.0         23.0       22.0             37.1        27..
UGO5CAJ0Y                            13.0         13.0       11.0             17.9        25.3
AULT LZ-ACT U1.T (P Cfl1)   S           l.0         64.2       75.7             77.4         86. I
COKRSUMP ! O
FASSL'qGE1 CAM  PER 7WOCL9.D
PorW.L AS'CI                          7.0         25.0       45.0             29.1        53.4         68.1
MDaO !Cz:7tIS M r OUSMW
tOP1LUA.TOK                         6.0          126.0      1538.0           172.1       225.9        210.3
TV UCZr7U S FZ 'IOUSAMD
POFULA WOH                           18.0         64.0      100.0             67.9       102.6   .    117.7
NEWSUA?P  (-DAILY CI!.L
UfTWSr.) CJ.Sr1.AICW FEPU
dOUSAKD  ePMAoi(                       54.0         37.0       39.0             76.1        78.5
.A   AMfLAL ATTLOIJCZ 7-2 CAPISA  5.0                1.9        2.6              4.2         3.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA3CMA roRCz C3ROUSAM)    22700.0          2900.0   34100.0
?-VLi  (P22zNT)                      17.5         20.4       21.6             21.5        24.5         27.2
CIC.GL?U  (MICDM)                    51.9         45.6       42.0             30.2        21.9          23.8
23U50I1  (P1RCZ2t)                   14.8         18.3      20.3              23.8        30.6
fAM2CIIATION LAr! (?!RCDVT)
TOTAL                                  32.0         31.6       31.1             30.9        t3.6          40.1
HALt                                   52.7         50.3       49.5             47.3       5U.3           55.7
F!tAiJ                                 11.2         12.8       13.6             13.3         14.3         24.7
t5OD1tC  DEP!VLNCT RATlO                  I.1 1.3                 1.4               1.3         1.3          L0
FRCL    ZF P.UVA3E rINCWN
UCEIVED 3T
IGSGIZ,S 5 ?EICZlTOo  NOOS30OL5        ..           ..         ..             23.7
IzCaIsT. :0  MiCE'Mr  'r RCSMCt:S    60.0         63.5       6Z.0             5t.7        57.6
L04EST zo ?"tCtn!l oF fCLSEioLzs    3.d            3.2        2.8              2.9         3.4
LST E5?    PEZCT'rI OF aCaS-MOLDS   10.5           9.0        9.4              9.9        11.0,
r-VRER  7.MRC!  :RCUPS
ESTL'IALD A.360L-E  MCvEM  LtCcN
LVt?E (LSs ?rR CAPITA)
UKW                                    ..           ..         ..265.6                      ..
AL                                     ..           ..      150.0            185.1
WM,CA?ED  MA.At'E FOVE1  L'COME
UVT L (.SS 11 CA.PItA)
OUAII                                  ..           ..      645.0            396.3       550.0
UJI.aL                                 ..           ..     332.;             208.1       403.4
"A:2\ morT,LA-om sr-cw Assm-c
POVE??! rC-: :rTEL i?flC-Yr)
rJlA                                   ..           ..         ..             35.2...
.                                                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
..C .vsiI.JbabLe
.m aOppicable.
.    'hT  adjusCed group avera: g e arac   cdicsacor are pp.Iattoo-voelghted geoometrie Mean.. excluding che eztrse
values of mo IazlScacor and :ha  oast  p;lu.1Aced zO*"r.`  L  eacth group.  Coverage oi :Ouctries moos -3*
Ldicartoas lopea.ds oa av4.1,ab.JiLz! f Late an2d La LOCt ML!2ru.
/b    unless ocherviso ZOced. d4:, !or 14A0 refer co any y.ar becveen 1959 and 1961: !or 1970, between L969
and 1971; and for  osr, A.cen; :            Qecveen 1974 and 19J7.
fc    LAtin WAOi.,  i  J 0: cban;   /4  .Vpqqr .:ddle tIcome tS1126-'.'O ;r capita. 197i):    a Ugn :ncme
(over S:500 p.r cApI:a, 19J)7    f  197':   A   3eglcai   19lS3. duration of Senoral aZucatcon reduc.d
rt:      to    . -ar *$,  ieefaorl lotsay noe .O :e  p.erabie .   c 014 of earlier ?esr$.
ieC ilnct Zattuat. at  NP peer cpt&a Ls for 1976.
hiutc. 1979



ANNEX I
DEFINIlTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAITORS                                                     a,
kal.a: The adjusted groupaeae  for each indicator ar  Ppol.atlnn-weightsd geometric aseen.. excluding the entoeme values of the iri                     ao nd ine  Iton
poultd coun try In each grou.p. Coverage of coun.crlse among the indicator. depends on av-ileblllty of det. and is act unIfor. , D. to lack of data.
grupavroeefor Capital Surplus Oil fap--r sand indicators of .                  to. eater and escrto diapos..l, hooin. 1.,Iccos  diorributius cod poverty are
simple populatton-waightad geometric means without the eatluoton of extreevalue1-..
IAlfi AREA (thooan  eq. a)Po..uletion par hon.ital bad - total. urbao. end total - populatior (total.
Total - Total sunrdface areal comprising land ote  sand inland wtare.                      urba,. an  rua)diieby tbsir reep-cti-e nmber of hoepitul hod.
Altrictultral1   Moet tenant tatisate of agritultural area used temprorrily                available in pblit and private general end epetialized hoepitul and tin-
or persenatly fo  ap. Pa  ora.stkat and bitcbhn  gerdene or, to                          habilitation  tantere.  Heepitala are esetahlishmente persaeontly etaffad by
lIe fallow                                                                               at least One physician.  Eatahllehsaate providing; principally nuatodial
care are not included. Usral hospitale. hvewes, intluda health sand sadi-
GiP PER CAPITA (iil    O   pa  capita aetinatec at aurreet market pCos                       al sentere sot permanently ass?ffed hy a physician, (but by a medical a.-
1;calcostd by aaacaoa-reis method as World Lank Atlas (1975-77 beele);                   elsisat. nuas   idwils. stn.) ebish sffar tm-patlent cannomdanen and
160, 1970, an  1977 data.                                                               proelda a liaised range of madital facilitle..
Aduissajona per heonltal had - Total samber of aijsiseisn to or diechargas
MNERCY CONSUMiPTION PER C"PITA - Annual Conseumytion of coomeerotel energy                  from hoapitala divided by the samber of bade.
(coalsd   lge    etos" maua e  and hydro-  oIlasar and ga-
tfcarmal elant"ritCityP)*in kioraaof      .e equIalent peIr napita                  900imG
Average ales of household Icer,ne  ar louaholdl - total  urhan. and rural1
POPUILATIONf bl  VITAL STATlITICS                                                           A hounafheid C"onsists of a grup otndl'ldual  who aaTe livini quartets
Total  opulaton. sd-er (s illiona  - Ae of Jly 1 f no   vilable,                      and their mato male.  A hoarder or lodger my or my no .h included in,
avrglfow'o-ya   aite   9h0, 1970. and 197da,                                              the househbold for etatietcstl purposee.  Staetltne  deintIn  of hou..-
tLI,, ppultio  (percent of total) -  etio of urban so total popula-                        hold vary.
Clan; differen.t definitions of orhbvirea. may affact coaperability                   Average nubro   esn   a   ot-ttl   ra,adrrl-Averagenu
of data  ascng tou-trio..                                                                her of persona per rs   in all, urban,  sand rural  -uiad conve-cionulI
PopulatIon denelty   .                                             ~~~~~~~dwellings, reepentively.  Due11inge enclude  ra-pormaen-t etru-tur.eend
Per  sq. k.. - Mid-year population per equara bilometan (100 hectares)                    unoccupied partse.
of total eroa.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Acca  to. eletrcit 2-erent of duelio)- tota.  urbac.. e,nd rural -
Persq  ic,  gic_ulture leand - Computed oa above for agricultural latd                    Conventional dwellings. wth elnrIolsy in living quater  as percentage
only,                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings ..eepetntivel.
Population asa structure (percent) - Childrso (0-14 yeaoe), working-age
(15-6. yaste),. sd retired  6 lbS yeasaod over) aa pecc..otagoa of mid-             IDICATIOV
rearP poplatior.                                                                     Adlu.ttd ryrollttent ratios
Popultiocgot   ae  pceit   total,  and urban  C-Copsan.d annualI                         Prinur,  achool - total,and female - Total end femal  ecolet c  all s.n.
grwhrae   f7 tota  sod urban aid-yea  population  for 1950-6l.                   atshe primary lee  to I     p-rcanrega  of repc tivo1  prr--ry enoo-err
1960-70, an   190-71.                                                                    populations.. anormally includes ohildreo aged h-il veers but ad7untad fcc
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual fle births par tho .eani of                      different lercgtha of primary education ; for countrito nith universal edc-
aid-rear popolatton; tan-ye.ar arithmetic avrage, coding lo 19h0 eod                     cetion enrollment -yV esced 100 percent tinca  sone pupils Are below cc
1971 and fivt-yov..   vraga ending in 1971 for -s t r-cnt eaticata.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rata  er thout.nd) - Anouel doatha pen thuuend of mid-                       hacondaryvchocl - total. saod female - Computed anebooe;eacondurved.cc-
sees population; ten,-year arithmetic avrages eoding in, 1961 and 1970                   tion requiesat lat  four pear  of approved primary inst-rucion; pro-
and five-year evergo ending to 1975 ion  ,ost rtceni entimate.                           videognea   occivoa.  or teache  traisiog  ntoscruitoon for pupilo
irons reproduction cras - Average number of daughtsre s woman will hear                    usua lly of 11 to 17 year. of age; cocreepondenc... cornee are generally
in he r normal poproduntive period if vee    srece  pretet age-esidd
apcf   ' etility rats  uaualy fIveyaZvrg . aio   in 196.                          locationa  enrollment iPercnt of senondarrl - voca tioa ..       oni.ti-uni.n..
V1910  end 1975.                                                                         clods technical, industrial, or other program. which operate in,dependently
Pamils planning - anceptors, annual (thoosands) - Annual nuaber of                         or au departments of seoondery institutions.
accepto_  of birth--onrol davinot under  uopic.. of national  family                 Ppltahrratio -primary  end tecond-ry - Total atudansa enroledc
planning progran.                                                                        Poimary and.scondar  level  di~vided hy numbers of tesobern in the cerre-
Panil,y ,plasoing - users (percent of married woman) - Peroonga of                         spondinglve.
mridwenof child-hearing age (15-4k poara) who ac hiirh--onrro                 Aldolt1 iiorrvev    (een)- Li.-rrto adults  (thIs to red and write)a
devices. toal  married women io emma age group.                                          a  ecentage of total adoli population aped 15 yours usd over..
POOP AND1 NUTRI`lIOf                                                                    Cli PI7POTIOfi
loe  =f odprouto  pe aita (1970-100) - loden number of perPaeircat(ethuan   euain  - Passenge  car  coyrio  rcc  cr
Iaiaane   rdcinof alfon.           oedtas                                        nUelo  tae eigt pernonalencua   .hLne,hunnadahr
Pe  optssppl  of Olra  (prcet of rssuramns   - Computed from                       rhllt
enryeqivalent ofne  fbodePple   vial  in'  cutry penpite                            eu.eevr   prtosn   euair  - All irpeco ,Ircivr frrao
per day.  Aailable epplite coPie dometic  rduton, import, less                br-adcaetino genera -1public par thous..nd of populacii f0   t  oenulcca
sporns  and     hne.nyok e.apie   nld   nmlfed   ed,                                   rcieal   cutlsadi   eaewe  rogistrarien of rail'diost  ui  St:~I
qatic ae sd lofodprotcting, andoete  i  diatri but- .                  e              ffect, deto fccrcn  yatse maynubh  comparable s1ince noncuntrin
quiromete were .te"tltd by PAO basad on physiological needs for nr                     ubcliahed Ii-coinig.
_I ecti vity and health connidering environmental temperature,fbodyo                  I  rcivr   (leth ....u.ad wpoplation) - TV reteivern for brcadcs   to  nio
woights, age and tan di_orihuin  of population, and alositna 11 par-                     public par thoon.od poosin                ld.aliesd  TV racoiv.r  ir I         c
cetfu   ate at hbout.bold leel                                                     crIes and i   -ear  when regiet,troione   V rn          ito efct
Per capIta aupp lyl of Protein (acme per day; - protein content of per                   eN-pape- circ-1aior (per thou..and population) - Shoutiho avera.ge circua-
capitA mat suppl  of food.ppar da.   fiaNt supply of iead ia def,ind as;                 t.im   f  dil  general intra esae . ofinrd ata.per1odic-I pubi-
abov.-   Raquiremete for all rou.trien ectebliahed by S.P  prvd u                        cation devoted primarilyv to rcrding general news.  It -canonsidered cc
a minimume alowanne of.60 grama ofitotal1 pro tein per day end 20 grase                  hr "daily' if it appearn at leas t four timen a week.
of an,imal aod pulte prtei.n, of which 11 grant ehculd be animal protein.             CInmanultedoepr caypi  pe2ryear - Bgamed on the .ushe  cf tik et,
Th... standards are lower than those of 75 grass  f tota  protein and                    aId during the yea, i-i.diog admissions to drice- iv cine...   nd nobt1Ir
23 gramo  fanmlprotein aa  average for the wooId, proposed by                            unt.I
FA0 in the Third World Pood u,vey.
Per caiap!,froteIn~ suo,ply from animal and pulse. - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derive    fo anmals and paet  sgam   e  day                                            oa   ao   oc   voan             - Ecoo-ic-lly atvpesn,icdIong arme
Child (ages L1-) mortalit'y rait  (par thousand) - Annual deah   e   hu-                   fra!o nepoe   u   sldn   osw ves ', stdevi,  tc Ifi-
aod I  age  oouo  -4 yearn - c c.hildre  is thia agegopscrai   acoeco tries ace  notc .arale.,
Penlofoecec)- F-ma   labor force as perceotage of total lnbcr force
HEALTHf                                                                                  AZ,-icultur   (percent) - Lao,fre  n            iatn,. f rrr      -uting end fnnf.fvg
Life anpoctancybat birthI (ysaeo,) - Averge number of ysr- of life                         as percnt.age of vtet1 laoI      fre
reminin  at birth;   eal  fv-Year aveage  ending in, 1960. 1970,                      Irduntry (Pe...eet) - Labor forc  in  lug   onrcirt   auatrc   n
aod 197).                                                                                aleorricits, water end ian as perceiaga of total labor force.
infanttonalty rat  (carthocoa.nd)- Annul deans of infanta underfricctor  rc   croy  -rt)   ae  and fenle   Total, maeI., ad
oeyar of oaepr thootand lIve birthn.                                                   maelo          --Pot  at P-rcetugon of thnir repc opop'turico
Atc.ns to asS. watot  pecc...  of  p       tpiseo- total. u         ee n sd cral 1-        Thene are  IOn  od)orred pontcipotiun ratr  T."-,"t  sue..rev
Number of people(total  urban.  adrurll,) with reasotable access to                      otutrOth   ooao.ed I0c  tine trend.
atawtraupplc (include  ietd  ufc  waters or untreated hot                        toon:dccrc   ai  -Rcco   ou itoder 15 and 6 t. ed cc
ucontaminatd eaten suo  aathaet from pro.tected borehiles, sprTings.,                   the labor for,e in age frop  I 1l-h6otri
and a.iay.      el).sprcnae  of their reopentIce populatcco..
e  ra   reapulcfountain or stundp-a  1cated sot acre                          LNOCOMi IISTOIOItTION
than 200bmeters from a houe. may be cnonidereda  being within ,o                      Percentage of private incom  (both incoath sand bind)onecdbrcht 
sonaie  coess of thatfoae.,   In rural ara.naoa-aIcsswud                                porce.t. t20en           p-rc-t. poorest 20 portet, and poet c   ooo
imply tnrse  ouaif  or  aha.ra of the household do  o                 eco  hotaod.
*pend a diaproportionate part of the day in, fetchiog the family's
eate  nads.                                                                         PCVERTro TARGET CR01UP0
Arcea.t.t eanrera dienosa.  fea.rcen  ofeElton       vu ura,ad                          ttirated abuolus. prtr  income lee                ro   aia  - urb- and   r
rural - Nfumbsr of people (total. orbao, and cral.) served by  -notat                      Aisolute poverty mooe leve  is that Income level below  huio aI I'll
disposal eas pernentega  of their reopen tive populatioae.  tonet                        nt-itiiollp adequate diet plus... ateita1 err-food requiceeoe  n  o
diaposl may Inlude the collection sand diepo..al, wIth or withoutafodbe
tean't, of fa. ano-et. and waste-water by wtraatyatom                         ~        ats ~tim d relatIve  averts iooe level fill par capital-urban  andrus
or the use. of pit privie.saee  etellac inatallati..a                                    RelatiVe   - poao  income leve  is that incom  leve  I... thean o..e-thir
Population pardhefreician - Population divided by number of practicing                      pe  cpiap         -Ina  income of the country.
Phyi, en  qlifi    from a mdical achool at univervity laval.                          lEtiated Pp,elati.. below p-ovrty inccme level (Perccant) - unbar sand rural-
Pepaltion. per suadn  ere     Population divided by numberof                               Percentvof pyuaio abn sd.rural) who ee  eIther "absolute poer" o
pratting   ale md isl    graduate nurmen, pr-ctinst     ret  sand                   'ro tio  poo P., hinhea  In greater
Econonic end lo-ia1 Data Di.ist-
E-onct  Analcele end Peojetc-ii   epree






-26--
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                                                               ANNfl i
page 4
A CTIUA L                                                 PR   J EC T E D                               An....alReolro,sth  ate
0974         09117                       977         1978         1979          1980         1985         1990       1975-78   1979-80   1981-85   1986-HO           1974      1978    1980       195        1990
A.      NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(millions of 01$ at 1970 price)                                                                                                                                                                                                      As.Percent of COY 
1.  GDSP (Market Prices)                                 72,570       76,829        83,883        87,036      83,000       98,241       104,309      140,876      190.925          6.1        6.3        6.8         5.6       101.7    100.3   10 1.3    101 2         101.1
2.   ai from TT                                          -1,179         -590          -218           240        -9            -79         1,1         -64          -218                        ..-1.7                                     -0.3    -1.3       -1.2        -.
3.  Gros  Ilnetie  ncm                                   71,381       76,239        83665         88,076      92,681       97,532       102,991      139,132      188,807          6.4        6.0        6.2         6.3       100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0         10.0
4.  Impotrt                                               6,673        6,381         6,282         5,523       5,531         5,977        5,611        7,000        10,460        -4.6        0.7        4.5         8,4         9.3       6.0      3.4        3,0        5.s
5.  Enportte   Volume                                     4.338        4,734         4,861         4,075       5,294        5,586         5.701        8,649       13,174          5.1        3.8        8.7         8.8         6.1       3.0      0.5       6.2         7.0
6.  Enports -TT Adjosted                                  3,167        4,149         4,630         5,110       4,976        6,077         4,383        6,974       11,056         12.0       -6.1        9.7         9.7         4.4       5.4      4.3       5905 09
7.  Resorc  CoGp (4-6)                                    3,316        2,228         1,660           415         556         1.000        1,227           25          -596-..                                                    4.9       0.6      1.2                  -0.3
8.  5oselo                                                6,082       57,073        62,153        66,477      70,970       74,099        70,587       90,459      122,634          5.8        5.7        4.6         4.3        78.6      76.8    76.3       70.5        65.0
9.  Inetet18,023                                                      20,594        23,149        21,773      22.030       23,733        25,632       40,719       65,578          3.7        8.5        9.7       10.0         26.4      23.8    24.9       29.3        34.7
10.  Notional  S-oings                                    14,763       17,449        20,288        20,026      20,005       21,044        22,516       38,125       63,193          7.9        6.1       11.1       10,6         20.7      21.8    21.9       27.4       33.3
11.  Dometic Savings                                      03,309       10,366        20,4089       21.350      21,210       22,633        26,404       40,693       66,174          8.5        7.2       10.8       10.2         21.4      23.2    33.7       29.2       35.0
(Mlin  of 08  at correct prices)AsPretoTtaIm rs
5.  Imports.A  ,r-   0..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t
Coeso...r Coeds                                    1,598         1,357        1,392         1,217        1,693        2,296        2,178        3,804         6,341        -9.4       -0.3        4.2         4.3        12.6      1.1    10.7        18.8         o.9
Potrolsom and Derivative                           2,962         3,100        3,845         4,069        4,423        6,200        9,384.      13,970        26,668         6.5        4,0       -1.7         4.4        23.4      34.1    46.0        39.1       37.3
Other Ieterndfste Goode                             4,962        3,019        3,352          3.636       3,680        5.004        4,686        8,629        18,520        -4.2       -0.7        6.3         9.7        39.3      29.4    23.0        24.2       23.9
Capi tol Geode                                      3,119        3,934        3,556          3,774       3,157        3,500        4,139        9,266        19,969       -12.4        3.5         9.7       10.0        24.7       24.4    20.3       26.0       27.9
Total (FOB)                                  12,641       12,210        12,545        12,023      12,953       17,000        20,387       35.705       71,498         -5.7        1.3        5.1        8.4        100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0         ooo.o
2.  Eoports                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ae P7ercet ofTotal  Rsort
Coffe                                                 980          934        2,390          2,642       2,288        2,220        2,007        2,790         4,694        -1.5       -5.1         3.0        3.0        12.3       18.     11.         7          3.8
Other Agriceltral. Goods                            3,384        3,4D7        2,993          3,873       3,130        3,318        4,042        8,150        16,131         0.7        0.4         6.2        6.1        42,6       24.9    23.1       21.5       20.0
inerals.                                              671        1,096        1,110            971         892        1,075        1,302        2,910         5,396        -1.4        7.2         4.7        4.8         8.4        7.1    .7.4        7.7        6.7
Osmi-Proc....ed Goode                                 634          645          709            988       1,113        1,795        2,060        4,332         8,216        18.6       25.0         7.7        7,7         8.0       8.9    11.8        11.4       10.2
Me..cfse-tcrd Goods                                 2,086        2,379        2,449          3,383       4,009        6,020        7,778       19,317        45,556        15.6       13.0       02.0        12.0        36.3      38.3    44.5        50.9       56.4
Other Goods                                           195          209          381            278         320          263          295           470          712       -16.0      -16.1         2.5        2.5         2,4       2.6       1.7       1.2        0.9
Total (FOB)                                   7,951        0,670        10,128        12,139      12,550       14,694        17,486       37.940       80,706          3.8        7.5        8.3        8.8        100.0    100.0   100,5       100.0      100.0
I,      SECTOR OUTPUT
(Share of NOP at Pactor Cost at 1970 Pni..e.
1.  Agricotore                                              8.4           8,2          7.9           0.2         7.9           8.2          8.1          7,6           7.2         5.5        7.2        4.7        5. 1
2.  todoetry                                               37.7         36.0          30.5          38.2        36.4          37.9         37.8         37.5         37.0          6.4        6.1        6.1        6,0
3.  Services                                               53,8          53.8         53,6          53,5        03.7          53.9         54.0         34.9         33.0          6,0        7.O        6.5        6.6
D.      PRICES (1970=1005
1.  Eoport Price loden                                      192           194          216           250         258           203          316          439           640         7.7       10.7        7.8        6,9
2.  Inport Price1 lden                                      214           220          226           246         274           325          410          570           763         6.1       22,3        6,0        6.0
3.  Te-   fcTr-de Ioden                                       73           80           97           105           94           87           77           81            84.
4.  Genera  Prloc Indon                                     215           278          407           564         793         1014....
5.  A-rerge Dochange Rate                                   148           177          233           308         394.,.,.
E.      SELECTED INDICATGORS                                 1975-70       1979-80      1981-85       1906-90                                                  G.       EMPLOYMSENTI               1970        1975
I.  SCOR                                                  4,512        3.904         4.673         5.458                                                       1.  Labor Dome (ilo)            29.4       34.1
2 I. Topot Elaocicity                                    -0.642        0,107         0.707         1.389                                                       2.  OU aptooyent
3.  Avergo Nftiosa  Sa-inge Rate                          0.213        0,217         0.246         0.304                                                              (. of 0.1.)               7.5         5.0
4.  Margina INational Savings Sate                        0.259         0.220        0,432         D,505                                                       3.  Ezploymeet( (illion)
3,  Coporls/DP                                            0.076        0,05C7        0.052         0.052                                                              (1 slharee               27.2       32,4
6.  DetMent/GDP                                           0.248        0.241         0,267         0.316                                                     31      giulr                      38        3.
7.  Reeo..rc-  Gap/GOP                                    0,027        0.009         0.006        -0,002                                                     3.2   Indostro                    18.0       19.8
3.3   Services                    38.2       40.7
P.      PUBLIC FINASCef'                                        1974        1975         1976           1977
(As percet of GDP)
1.  Corr-t Ro-e.s                                          10,7          9.5         10.7          10,3
1.1   Ton Revonue                                             to.3         9.4         10.2            0.7
2.  torrent Espenditeces..                                  9.5          8.7          9.6           9.1
5.  Current Savings                                         1.2          0.6          1.1           1.2
4.  Capital Sspendituoee                                     0.6         0.8          1,0            1.2
4,1   Govs-net Pined Capital Porutioc                          8.4         0.4          0.4            0.4
a' Federa1 Goveonat.                                                                                                                            ImLe. than hlif the  -esllet toUt shown
1-1nclding capital trace.fete                                                                                                                . nt applicable
January 14, 1980



ANNEX 1
-27-                                                        Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million US$)
A CT UA L                                             PROJ E CT E D
1974          1975          1976          1977             1978          1979          1980          1985          1990
A,  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.     Exports (icl. NFS)                         8,471          9,376        10,797        12,808            13,794      16,145        18,322        40,483        85,913
2.     Imports (in.l NFS)                        14,678         14,308        14,475        14,020            16,133      19,787        23,453        40,629        81,284
3.     Resource Balance                          -6,207         -4,932        -3,678        -1,212            -2,339      -3,642        -5,130          -146         4,629
4.     Net Factor Service Income                   - 916        -1,770        -2,339        -2,825            -3,624      -4,883        -6,353       -12,171       -18,886
1. Net Interest Payments                      - 652        -1,498        -1,809         -2,104           -2,695      -3,625        -4,990       -10,005       -15,442
B. Direct Investment Income                   - 248         - 235          - 380         - 455              -564        -542          -590        -1,030        -1,775
c. Other Factor Service Income                -  16         -  37         - 150          - 266              -365        -716          -773        -1,136        -1,670
5.     Current Transfers (Net)                         1             2             4            -                 72           7             7             7             7
6.     Balance on Current Account                -7,122         -6,700        -6,013        -4,037            -5,891      -8,518       -11,477       -12,310       -14,250
7.     Net Private Direct Investment                 887           892           962           810               906       1,000         1,000         1,000           750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Loans
a. Traditional Sources_/
(i) Disbursements                       1,956         1,612          2,054         2,553             2,391       3,661         4,075         6,908        11,264
(ii) Amortization                        - 739          - 992        -1,350        -1,701            -1,762      -1,646        -1,936        -4,296        -6,961
(iii) Net Disbursements                    1,217           620           703           852               629       2,014         2,139         2,612         4,302
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                       5,103         4,524          5,978         5,940            11,312       6,654        14,786        19,659        31,669
(ii) Amortization                       -1,181        -1,194         -1,669        -2,426            -3,408      -4,150        -5,604       -10,097       -20,142
(iii) Net Disbursements                    3,922         3,330         4,309         3,514             7,904       2,504         9,182         9,562        11,526
9.     Use of IMF Resources                          -               7           -             -
10.     Short-term Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138                789         2,294         - 440               332         -             -             -             -
11.     Reserves (-= increasge
a. Reserve Accumulation-                        958         1,062         -2,255         - 699           -3,880        3,000          -847          -864        -2,329
b. Dollar Valuation Adjustment                  185            176         - 252         -  16              -739         -             -             -             -
c, Changes in Reserve LevelS/                 1,143         1,238        -2,507          - 715            4,619       3,000           -847          -864        -2,329
12.     Foreign Exchange Reserves                   5,272         4,034         6,541         7,256            11,875       8,875         9,722        13,551        22,499
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments                                                                                (preliminary)
1.     Total M&LT Loans                            7,094         6,602         9,536         8,949            15,249
1.1    IBRD                                          242           428           498           425               688
1.2    IDB                                           203           167           186           270               283
1.3    Governments                                   433           109         1,305           395               169
1.4    Suppliers                                   1,088         1,376         1,300         1,100             1,857
1.5    Bonds                                          25           -             269           819               940
1.6    Financial Credits                           5,103         4,524         5,978         5,940            11,312
C.  Memorandum Items
1.     Grant Element of Total Comsitments              2.5           2.5           2.5           2.8
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                      9.5           9.5            9.4           9.3            8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Years)                        9.0           9.9           8.3           8.9            10.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
b/  IFS Line 79d.
c/  IFS Line Id.                                                                                                                                                               January 9, 1980
...  not available



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual
1974         1975          1976         1977         1978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                           17,166       21,171       25,985        32,037        43,511
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                       11,211       14,561       18,194        21,528        29,500
(2) Traditional Lendersa/                                    5,955        6,610         7,791       10,509        14,011
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                           8,533       11,461       14,852        19,309       27,223
(2) Private                                                  8,633        9,710       11,133        12,729       16,288
2,  Net Debt Service                                                  2,572        3,683        4,825         6,231         7,865
a.  Total Interest                                               1,370         1,863        2,091        2,462         3,342
b.  Net Interest                                                   652         1,498        1,810         2,103        2,695
3.  Public Debt Service                                               1,287        1,550        1,982         2,505         3,933
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio_/                                           30.4         39.3          44.7         48.6         57.0
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio-/                                     33.3         41.8          48.2         52.2         63.8
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                          15.2         16.5          18.4         19.6         28.5
4.  Liquidity Ratio4/                                                  23.0         33.3          43.0         39.2         46.2
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                                2.3          3.0           3.3          3.8           4.1
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                             1.2          1.3           1.4          1.5           2.1
7.  Total DOD/GDP                                                      15.6         17.1          17.8         19.3         22.0
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DODe/                                  10.9         10.9           9.9          9.5          10.4
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DODe/                                       20.5         21.5          22.8         24.0          24.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                            48.1         42.9          55.5         60.6          84.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)&/                                 25.7         14.6          20.2         13.6          32.2
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                   53.4         34.0          36.4         22.4          37.9
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                        3.5          4.1           2.2          3.5           2.0
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                  4.9          5.2           5.0          4.8           3.7
3.  IBRD) Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.0          2.5           2.4          2.9           2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                   Outstanding December 31, 1978
Amount                                  Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                  1,974                                     4.5
2.  Other Multilateral                                                      911                                      2.1
3.  Governments                                                           3,153                                      7.2
4.  Suppliers                                                             5,343                                     12.3
5.  Bonds                                                                 2,380                                      5.5
6.  Financial Credits                                                    29,500                                     67.8
7.  Other                                                                    250                                     0.6
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                      43,511                                   100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                               27,223                                     62.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M6LT Loans n.e.i.
b/ Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/ Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 montbs imports.
e/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculated on tbe basis of net rather than gross interest payments in
order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
January 9, 1980






-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-five loans fully disbursed                                 1,485.0
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0           5.7
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement      6.7             .1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0          17.2
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       42.3          15.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          24.0
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply        36.0           1.1
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          13.7
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0          18.4
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          27.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          54.1
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          51.3
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0          11.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          27.0
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0           10.8
1206   1976  Brazil                             Development Bank   35.0            7.0
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          47.6
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0          30.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          50.0           2.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power               49.0          12.6
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                50.0          23.9
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition            19.0          17.0
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0          25.4
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry        83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                82.0          42.5
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0           21.6
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0          54.3
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer           82.0          39.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education            32.0          29.1
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0           14.5
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0         102.0
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0           22.3
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power               130.0         129.9
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads               114.0         112.7
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals       85.0          74.8
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport      88.0          77.8
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0           97.6
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0           35.4
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              93.0
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             100.0
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum             98.0          92.0
1714 /1 1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0           26.0
1720 /2 1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0           70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power               109.0         109.0
1728 /1 1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0           40.0
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation           28.0          28.0
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads               110.0         110.0
Total                                             4,496.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                599.4
Total now outstanding                             3,897.0
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            41.8            4.0
Total now held by Bank                            3,893.0
Total undisbursed                                                1,961.0
/1   Became effective on February 5, 1980
/2   Not yet effective.
75   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



-31-
ANNE II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF InC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1980)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                      Type of Business         Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                     Electrical Equipaunt        2.00       -        2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                           Pulp and Paper              1.20       -        1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                           Automotive Parts            0.45       -        0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                     Motor Vehicles              2.45       -       2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                Cement                      1.20       -        1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                    Pulp                        4.00       -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                         Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41      7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                   Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                    Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1971              Oxitelio, S.A. Industria e Comercio                         Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44     6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                  Pulp                        4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                     Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                      76.97      7.50    84.47
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                   Capital Market
Development               5.00       -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                     Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                  Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -       6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                           Textiles                   31.00       -      31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                           Carbon Black                6.18      1.49     7.37
1975              Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00       -      10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.              Textiles                    6.45      1.00     7.45
197611980          Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste              Textiles                   16.20       -      16.20
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                            Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -       20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -      15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                    Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0     10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                   Motor Vehicles             60.00     5.00    65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                          Ready-made Garments         2.00       -        2.00
1980               Bende do Para S/A - Benpasa - Agricultura,
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                      Palm Oil                    3.50      1.00     4.50
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                 Iron and Steel              5.00       -        5.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                              436.24    45.80   482.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                               321.15      8.52   329.67
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    115.09    37.28   152.37
Total Undisbursed                                                                    135.75    10.05   145.80



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
As of January 31, 1980, there were 43 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by addi-
tional allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. However, the project has taken longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles to settlers, and cost overruns presently amounting
to about 240%. The Closing Date for this loan has been postponed
to December 31, 1980 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 54% over
the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The original Closing Date
was postponed once--from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In
view of the slow disbursement, and the fact that commitments under
Loan No. 1317-BR had not yet started, the Bank has decided to allow
the Closing Date to lapse, and has cancelled the amount of
US$11,737,035.97, corresponding to the uncommitted balance of
Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30, 1979. The Borrower will be permitted
to draw down until June 30, 1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30,
corresponding to the amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30,
1979 against approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that
date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15, 1980
This project is substantially completed. As of November 30, 1979,
97% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project imple-
mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
and have yielded useful information for future sector investment
planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
postponed to June 30, 1981.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The new Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector,
and no further financial difficulties are envisaged. Substantial
changes were made resulting in better management and control of
the project. The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance that
sufficient federal funding will be available beginning in 1980,
no further delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is
US$1.7 billion which is 44% above the appraisal estimate.
However, the project remains economically justified.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an increase of at least 80% over the
appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have
resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the costs of
civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation.
Further adjustment in project composition is being considered in
view of the 1979 floods. The closing date has been postponed to
December 31, 1982.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's
financial position, however, continues to remain extremely weak.
Active consideration is being given to ways in which this situation
can be corrected. The closing date for this loan was postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. Phase II, now
just beginning, would sharpen the project's focus on the lowest
income farmers and would include new components in the areas of
marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services; seed
production; and inland fisheries. The new state administration has
indicated its strong support of the project, particularly of Phase
II implementation. During 1979 a drought occurred which has
affected first-year project implementation for Phase II. The
closing date for this loan was postponed to September 30, 1982 to
allow disbursements to coordinate effectively with Phase II.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
interest rates, there was little demand for loan funds, and as of
year-end 1979, about US$52.5 million of the Bank loan remained
uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to persist, the
Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
January 28, 1980.  It is expected that the Government will request
cancellation of an additional US$2.5 million. The Closing Date
of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to enable
completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
ments have not been completed.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Ten sub-projects involving ten different
states have been approved. Construction is underway in three
states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Goias.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. Imposed hiring constraints
also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
and an expanded program of civil works to recuperate previous
shortfalls.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
postponed by six months, to June 30, 1980.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
Substantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is inadequately
staffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the project.
The nutrition delivery system's field tests are proceeding
reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial credit
component have not started primarily because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. We have been informed that the
Government is planning to give INAN foundation status.  This measure
would allow INAN to offer competitive salaries and thus attract and
retain adequate staff. Measures to deal with the inactive industrial
credit are currently under review by the Government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this loan
unusable. Active consideration is now being given to the future
of this loan.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing according to appraisal forecast.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation recently.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
affecting project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. The technical assistance program
is underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
credit, input supply, marketing and storage services are making
good progress, while the parts of the project relating to land
purchase credit, agricultural mechanization and cooperative
societies organization are progressing at a slower than expected
rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction
of three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is
progressing well. Equipment contracts have been signed for these
plants, committing approximately US$60 million of the loan.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule,
although local funding delays have been a recurring problem. Civil
works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
component is showing encouraging initial results.  However, adminis-
trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized, and project execution proceeded satis-
factorily during FY 1979. Early local funding delays appear to have
been resolved in late 1979. Means to resolve current problems in
achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
First year implementation of the project advanced satisfactorily
after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
majority of the components, and targets for the number of farmers
to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
project activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
in state administrations and dismissal of a large number of
project-funded staff. Funding delays in year two have compounded
difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
and the restoration of appropriate coordination and integration of
project activities.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1721      Copel Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June. 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



-41-
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project        Approximately one year
(b)  Project prepared by:      State water companies with
assistance of consultants
(c) First presentation
to the Bank:              June 1978
(d) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:        May 1979
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:             November 1979
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:        May 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(1) SWCs would implement new sewerage tariffs by January 31,
1982 (para. 57).
(2) BNH would continue studies on low-cost technology options
and prepare proposals for applying the results to the Project
States (para. 70).






I B R D-14468
AUOUST 19,79
so
N  E N  EI-Z U E L A           el  I
j- I                              ENNE
URINAME
C 0  L 01 M  B- I A                                                                  WA
-A
_c:
A  t    a  n  t    c    0  c        c n
MACA
BELEM
RtAUEZA
E   A
AIAI
J
tFE
RTO VELH(D[
7%
RIO BRANCO r/
A
p  E-  V  UL
OCUIABA                  BRASjLlAjt
GC ANIA'
CAMPO GRANDE                                   0
RELO HORIZONTE
A   IL                                                                                   -9
SOJTH STATES WATER SUPPLY
SE   FR
AND  W , AdE RGJECT
PAU
Tt*, lftWltOl
m T
T.. T.L*
Ntl OaAN
NY J
A                                     k-B R A ZTL
AIOA            0    c 6 a  ry              wIfIc
IIIAI
Po
kltcmETEPS                                    Li 4t u
n5l
SUENO A



