LOAN NUMBER 1823 BR
Loan Agreement
(Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAqAO
and
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DO PARANA - SANEPAR
and
COMPANHIA CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO - CASAN
and
COMPANHIA RIO GRANDENSE DE SANEAMENTO - CORSAN
and
STATE OF PARANA
and
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
and
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Dated             LL            , 1980


﻿LOAN NOMBER 1823 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS  CTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAQAO (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DO PARANA -
SANEPAR (hereinafter called SANEPAR) and COMPANHIA CATARINENSE DE
AGUAS E SANEAMENTO - CASAN (hereinafter called CASAN) and
COMPANHIA RIO GRANDENSE DE SANEAMENTO - CORSAN (hereinafter called
CORSAN) and STATE OF PARANA and STATE OF SANTA CATARINA and STATE
OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL.
WHEREAS (A) Plano Nacional de Saneamento (hereinafter called
PLANASA) constitutes a water supply and sewerage program for
Brazil which has been established under the direction of the
Borrower, and which, in the opinion of the Bank, forms an accept-
able basis for a specific financing operation of the Bank in
Brazil;
(B) The Project described in Sche-:ule 1 to this Agreement
will be carried out and financed as part of PLANASA;
(C) The Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called
the Guarantor), the State of Parana, the State of Santa Catarina
and the State of Rio Grande do Sul (hereinafter called the Project
States) and the Borrower have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project by making the Loan to the Borrower as
hereinafter provided;
(D) Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by
SANEPAR, CASAN and CORSAN, respectively, with the assistance
of the Borrower and also with the assistance, with resources other
than the proceeds of the Loan, of the State of Parana, the State
of Santa Catarina and the State of Rio Grande do Sul, respec-
tively, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(E) Parts D and E of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower with the assistance, with resources other than the
proceeds of the Loan, of the State of Parana, the State of Santa
Catarina and the State of Rio Grande do Sul;
(F) SANEPAR, CASAN and CORSAN have agreed to undertake
certain obligations towards the Bank in respect of the Project
being financed hereby as hereinafter in this Agreement set forth;


﻿-2-
(G) The State of Parana, the State of Santa Catarina and the
State of Rio Grande do Sul have agreed to undertake certain
obligations towards the Bank (including the provision of funds) ,n
respect of the Project being financed hereby and related to the
carrying out of the Project as hereinafter in this Agreement set
forth;
(H) The State of Parana, the State of Santa Catarina and the
State of Rio Grande do Sul each warrants and represents that it is
authorized to undertake its respective obligations in this Agree-
ment set forth;
(I) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, and in the
Guarantee Agreement, of even date herewith, between the Guarantor
and the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project State" means any of the following States of the
Guarantor: State of Parana, State of Santa Catarina and State of
Rio Grande do Sul, as parties to this Agreement, for the purpose
of carrying out the Project;
(b) "Company" means any of the following water supply
and sewerage companies: (i) Companhia de Saneamento do Parana -
SANEPAR, a mixed economy water supply and sewerage corporation,


﻿-3-
created by Law No. 4.684 dated January 23, 1963 of the State
of Parana, established on December 30, 1963 in Curitiba by public
document filed with the Junta Comercial Estado on January 9,
1964 under number 37602 and published in the Diario Oficial of
the State of Parana on January 11, 1964; (ii) Companhia
Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento - CASAN, a mixed economy water
supply and sewerage corporation, created by Law No. 4.547 of the
State of Santa Catarina, dated December 31, 1970, and "Estatutos
Sociais" means, in respect of CASAN, its statutes as approved by
the extraordinary meeting of its shareholders held on July 2, 1971
and published in the Dialrio Oficial of the State of Santa
Catarina on August 2, 1971; and (iii) Companhia Rio Grandense de
Saneamento - CORSAN, a mixed economy water supply and sewerage
corporation, created by Law No. 5.167 of the State of Rio Grande
do Sul, dated December 21, 1965, and "Estatutos Sociais" means, in
respect of CORSAN, its statutes as approved by the extraordinary
meeting of its shareholders held on March 28, 1966 and published
in the Diario Oficial of the State of Rio Grande do Sul on
April 1, 1966; such companies hereinafter sometimes collectively
called the "Project Companies".
(c) "State Bank" means any of the following commercial
banks: (i) Banco do Estado do Parana, a bank of which the State
of Parana is the majority shareholder; (ii) Banco do Estado da
Santa Catarina, a bank of which the State of Santa Catarina is
the majority shareholder; and (iii) Banco do Estado do Rio Grande
do Sul, a bank of which the State of Rio Grande do Sul is the
majority shareholder; such banks hereinafter sometimes collec-
tively called the "Project State Banks".
(d) "Sub-project" means a project included in PLANASA
consisting in the provision of water supply or sewage collection
and disposal, or both, which will be carried out by a Company
in any of the Project States and which the Borrower and such
Project State propose to finance out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(e) "free-limit Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-project pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(f) "Approved Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so
defined, which the Bank has approved or L free-limit Sub-project
as so defined, for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account, and which are consistent with the criteria
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(g) "BNH loans" means the loans from the Borrower to a
State Bank referred to in Section 3.03 (ii) (A) of this Agree-
ment.
(h) "FINEST II" means a credit program established by the
Borrower's Resolution No. 49/76 (particularly Articles 1.1 (b)
and 3 thereof) under which a Project State receives financial
assistance for purposes of financing the carrying out of water
supply and sewerage projects within such Project State, and which
can be substantially described as follows: (i) the Borrower makes
loans to its financial agent (normally a State Bank controlled by
such Project State) which in turn relends the proceeds of such
loans to such Project State; (ii) the amount of such loans does
not exceed the equivalent of the aggregate of funds that such
Project State has made, or proposes to make, available to the
Company operating in such Project State for purposes of the
carrying out of the above-mentioned projects in Small Communities
within such Project State; (iii) such Project State deposits the
proceeds of such loans in the water supply and sewerage financing
fund referred to in the Applicable PLANASA Agreement (as such term
is defined below); and (iv) such Company retains a determined
percentage of the funds referred to in (ii) above as an equity
contribution from such Project State while it pays the balance of
such funds within a certain period into the above-mentioned fund;
"FINEST II Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so defined,
which is financed under FINEST II; and "Approved FINEST II Sub-
project" means an Approved Sub-project as so defined, which is
financed under FINEST II.
(i) "FINEST III" means a credit program established by the
Borrower's Resolution No. 49/76 (particularly Articles 1.1 (c) and
4 thereof) under which a Company receives financial assistance for
purposes of carrying out water supply and sewerage projects for
Small Communities within the Project State in which such Company
operates, and which can be substantially described as follows: (i)
the Borrower makes loans to a financial agent (normally the State
Bank controlled by such Project State) which in turn relends the
proceeds of such loans to such Project State; (ii) such Project
State undertakes to make available such proceeds, together with an
equivalent amount of funds of such Project State (originated other
than in loans from the Borrower), to such Company for purposes of
the carrying out of the above-mentioned projects; and (iii) a
determined percentage of the aggregate of the proceeds and the
funds referred to in (ii) above is retained by such Company as an


﻿- 5 -
equity contribution from such Project State, while the balance is
paid back by such Company to such Project State within a certain
period; "FINEST III Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so
defined, which is financed under FINEST III; and "Approved FINEST
III Sub-project" means an Approved Sub-project, as so defined,
which is financed under FINEST III.
(j) "Applicable PLANASA Agreement" means any of the follow-
ing agreements: (i) in the case of Sub-projezts for purposes
of Part A of the Project, the agreement between, inter alia,
the Borrower and the State of Parana and Banco do Estado do
Parana and SANEPAR, dated March 23, 1972, as such agreement has
been renewed to encompass all operations of SANEPAR in respect of
PLANASA, and the term includes each financing contract covering
specific Sub-projects entered or to be entered into by the same
parties to such agreement pursuant to paragraph 3 of clause 3
thereof (each such financing contract hereinafter called CTN-
Parana); (ii) in the case of Sub-projects for purposes of Part B
of the Project, the agreement between, inter alia, the Borrower
and the State of Santa Catarina and Banco do L :tado da Santa
Catarina and CASAN dated September 17, 1971, as a .zh agreement has
been renewed to encompass all operations of CASAN in respect of
PLANASA, and the term includes each financing contract covering
specific Sub-projects, entered or to be entered into by the same
parties to such agreement pursuant to paragraph 3 of clause 3
thereof (each such financing contract hereinafter called CTN-Santa
Catarina); and (iii) in the case of Sub-projects for purposes of
Part C of the Project, the agreement between the Borrower and the
State of Rio Grande do Sul and Banco do Estado do Rio Grande do
Sul and CORSAN dated December 22, 1975, as such agreement has
been renewed to encompass all operations of CORSAN in respect of
PLANASA, and the term includes each financing contract covering
specific Sub-projects, entered or to be entered into by the same
parties to such agreement pursuant to paragraph 3 of clause 3
thereof (each such financing contract hereinafter called CTN-Rio
Grande do Sul).
(k) "CTN" means, as applicable, each CTN-Parana or each
CTN-Santa Catarina or each CTN-Rio Grande do Sul.
(1) "Superintendencia" means Superintendencia do Sistema
Financeiro de Saneamento, a superintendencia of the Borrower
entrusted with the Borrower's financing and technical functions
concerning sanitation of urban areas in Brazil, or any successor
thereto.


﻿(m) "Small Community" means a community within a Project
State which, in accordance with the Guarantor's census applicable
at the date of appraisal of a Sub-project, has an urban population
of not more than 5,000 inhabitants.
(n) "Medium-size City" means a city within a Project State,
excluding the capital city of such Project State, which, in
accordance with the Guarantor's census applicable at the date of
appraisal of a Sub-project, has an urban population of more than
5,000 inhabitants.
(o) "Law" means the Guarantor's Law No. 6528, published in
the Guarantor's Didrio Oficial on May 12, 1978, and "Decree"
means the Guarantor's Decree No. 82587, published in the Guaran-
tor's Diario Oficial on November 7, 1978, which regulates the
Law, the Law and the Decree hereinafter sometimes called the
Legislation.
(p) "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of SANEPAR, CASAN
or CORSAN.
(q) "UPC" means a constant monetary unit which is revalued
quarterly on the basis of the National Treasury Bond Index of
the Guarant6r.
(r) "EVG" means a five-year investment and financing plan
prepared by each Company which is annually updated and furnished
to the Borrower for approval.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty million dollars ($130,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for:
(i) 54% of the amounts disbursed, after the date
of this Agreement, by the Borrower under BNH loans
in respect of reasonable expenditures made by a
Company for goods or civil works or services (or


﻿-7-
any combination thereof) required for carrying out
an Approved Sub-project;
(ii) 27% of the amounts disbursed, after the date
of this Agreement, by the Borrower in respect of
loans made to a Project State according to Section
3.03 (ii) (B) of this Agreement in respect of
reasonable expenditures made by a Company for goods
or civil works or services (or any combination
thereof) required for carrying out an Approved
FINEST II Sub-project;
(iii) 54% of the amounts disbursed, after the date
of this Agreement, by the Borrower in respect of
loans made to a Project State according to Section
3.03 (ii) (C) of this Agreement in respect of
reasonable expenditures made by a Company for goods
or civil works or services (or any combination
thereof) required for carrying out an Approved
FINEST III Sub-project;
(iv) 54% of the amounts disbursed, after the date of
this Agreement, by the Borrower for consulting
services with respect to Part D of the Project;
and
(v) 100% of the foreign costs for consulting services
with respect to Part E of the Project;
provided, however, that, in the case the amounts disbursed by the
Borrower may qualify for withdrawals from the Loan Account under
sub-paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (a) above, withdrawals
from the Loan Account shall be made, at the Borrower's choice,
under any of such sub-paragraphs but not under both.
(b) A free-limit Sub-project shall be a Sub-project, the
estimated total investment cost of which shall not exceed the
sum of $2,000,000 equivalent, which has been previously approved
by the Borrower and which will be located in a Medium-size City or
Small Community for which no Approved Sub-project has been or is
being carried out.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the aggregate amount of payments made out of the proceeds
of the Loan for purposes of: (i) Part A of the Project, shall not


﻿exceed the equivalent of $54,750,000; (ii) Part B of the Project,
shall not exceed the equivalent of $27,800,000; (iii) Part C of
the Project, shall not exceed the equivalent ci $46,750,000;
(iv) Part D of the Project, shall not exceed the equivalent of
$500,000; and (v) Part E of the Project, shall not exceed the
equivalent of $200,000; provided, however, that should the Bank
and the Borrower agree on a different allocation of the proceeds
of the Loan for each Part of the Project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, the allocation set forth herein shall be
changed accordingly.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of:
(i) expenditures made by a Company before the date
of this Agreement;
(ii) expenditures made by a Company, other than the one
taken into account for purposes of Section 8.01 (a)
of this Agreement, unless evidence satisfactory to
the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that
the execution and delivery of this Agreement, on
behalf of such onpany and on behalf of the Project
State where suci. Company operates, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
or governmental action. As part of such evidence,
the Bank shall be furnished an opinion or opinions
catisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to
the Bank showing: (A) that this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, such Company and such
Project State and is legally binding upon such
Company and such Project State in accordance with
its terms; and (B) that all necessary acts, con-
sents and approvals to be performed or given by the
Guarantor and by such Project State, by their
political subdivisions 'other than such Project
State) or agencies, by any agency of any such
political subdivisions, or otherwise to be per-
formed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of each Part of the Project related to such
Project State and to enable such Project State, the
Borrower and the Company operating in such Project
State to perform all of the obligations of each of
them contained in this Agreement (including the


﻿- 9 -
obligations thereof relating to procurement)
together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, including the full power and
authority of such Company to construct and operate
the Sub-projects, have been performed or given;
and
(iii) disbursements made by the Borrower to finance
expenditures incurred (other than expenditures
in respect of const-uction) by a Company in respect
of a Sub-project subject to the Bank's approval, if
such expenditures shall have been made more than
one hundred twenty days prior to the date on
which the bank shall have received in respect of
such Sub-project the application and information
required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or,
in respect of a free-limit Sub-project, more than
one hundred twenty days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit Sub-project the request and information
required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(e) If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the: (A) procurement of any item is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement; or (B) selection
and approval by the Borrower of a Sub-project, or -he manner in
which an Approved Sub-project is being carried out, are not
consistent with the criteria set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, no expenditures therefor shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-project (other than
a free-limit Sub-project) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with (i) an appraisal (including economic
and financial analysis) of the Sub-project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed financial terms and conditions for
I


﻿- 10 -
such Sub-project, including the CTN or CTNs covering such Sub-
project; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-project shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the financial
terms and conditions for such Sub-project, including the CTN or
CTNs covering such Sub-project; and (iii) such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before March 31, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Seztion 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shalj repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the awortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. SANEPAR shall carry out Part A of the Project,
CASAN shall carry out Part B of the Project, CORSAN shall carry
out Part C of the Project, the Companies and the Borrower shall
carry out Part D of the Project, and the Borrower shall carry out
Part E of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, ecologi-
cal and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and each of the Project States
shall provide the Company in question with such funds (additional
to the proceeds of the Loan), facilities, services and other
resources as shall be necessary or appropriate to enable such
Company to carry out the Approved Sub-projects which such Company
shall carry out under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the Loan,
as and when needed for purposes of the Project, to the State Bank
controlled by the Project State where each Approved Sub-project
will be located; (ii) cause such State Bank to relend such pro-
ceeds for purposes of each such Approved Sub-fp.roject to (A) the
Company operating in such Project State, if such Approved Sub-
project is financed under a BNH loan, or (B) to such Project State
for the purposes of (1) replenishing a fund designated by such
Project State in the Applicable PLANASA Agreement to finance water
supply and sewerage projects, in the case of an Approved FINEST II
Sub-project, or (2) making such proceeds available to such Com-
pany, in the case of an Approved FINEST III Sub-project, all in a
manner consistent with the Applicable PLANASA Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, in addition to its obligations under
paragraph (a) above, provide such funds, facilities, services and
other resources as shall be necessary or appropriate for the
carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project.
(d) The obligations of the Borrower and of the Project
States under Section 3.02 (a) shall be several and shall be
subject to Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of this Agreement, respectively.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, with due diligence and efficiency
and for the purposes of complying with its obligations under


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, shall: (i) assist each Company
in the preparation and appraisal of each Sub-project; and (ii)
make (A) loans to each State Bank in respect of a Sub-project in
an amount equal to one-half of the amount of the loan or loans
made (or to be made) by such State Bank to sucli Company for
purposes of such Sub-project, 'or (B) loans to the State Bank
controlled by the Project State where such Company operates in an
amount equivalent to the amounts made available by such Project
State to such Company for the financing of FINEST II Sub-projects,
and cause such State Bank to relend the proceeds of such loans to
such Project State, or (C) loans to the State Bank controlled by
the Project State where such Company operates in an amount equi-
valent to one-half of the amounts made available by such Project
State to such Company for the financing of a FINEST III Sub-
project, and cause such State Bank to relend the proceeds of such
loans to such Project State, all in a manner consistent with the
obligations of such Company under Section 5.07 of this Agreement
and of such Company and the Borrower under the Applicable PLANASA
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Each Project State shall, for the purposes of
complying with its obligations under Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement, make available to the Company operating in such Project
State, partly as loans and partly as equity contributions into
such Company's equity: (i) amounts equivalent to the loans refer-
red to in Section 3.03 (ii) (B) and (C) of this Agreement; (ii)
the proceeds of the loans referred to in Section 3.03 (ii) (C) of
this Agreement; and (iii) cause the State Bank controlled by such
Project State to make to the Company operating in such Project
State, the loans referred to in Section 3.03 (ii) (A) of this
Agreement, all in a manner consistent with the obligations of slich
Company under Section 5.07 o. this Agreement and of such Company
and such Project State under the Applicable PLANASA Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) In order to assist the Companies and the
Borrower in the carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project, the
Companies and the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations and experience, as well as the terms and conditions of the
contract under which the services of such consultants shall be
performed, shall be satisfactry to the Bank.
(b) SANEPAR, CASAN and CORSAN shall, not late, than Decem-
ber 31, 1980, furnish through the Borrower to the Bank a plan on
their part, satisfactory to the Bank, such plan to include, inter
alia, the terms of reference, manpower estimates and a schedule


﻿- 13 -
for execution, for the carrying out of Part D (1), (2) and (3) of
the Project, respectively, and shall thereafter take all such
action as shall be necessary on their part for the carrying out of
Part D (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, respectively, in accor-
dance with the schedule referred to herein.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1980,
furnish to the Bank, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, such plan
to include, inter alia, the terms of reference, manpower estimates
and a schedule for execution, for the carrying out of Part E of
the Project, and shall thereafter take all such action as shall be
necessary for the carrying out of Part E of the Project, in
accordance with the schedule referred to herein.
Section 3.06. (a) Each Company undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such
Company to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such Company
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for Approved Sub-projects.
Section 3.07. (a) Each Company shall furnish through the
Borrower to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request.
(b) Each Company: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project and of
each Approved Sub-project carried out thereunder by each such
Company (including their cost and the benefits to be derived from
them), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in each Approved
Sub-project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
each such Approved Sub-project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents in respect of each such Approved Sub-project; and (iii)
shall furnish through the Borrower to the Bank every three months


﻿- 14 -
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project and each such Approved Sub-project, their cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than four months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, each Company shall prepare a report satisfactory to
the Bank on the execution and initial operation of the Part of
the Project that shall be carried out by each Company. On the
basis of these reports, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank, not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably. reque.t, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, each Company, each Project
State and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower and each Company shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower or of
each such Company and, in respect of each Approved Sub-project,
any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall not furnish to the
Bank, either for approval thereof or for authorizations to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account therefor, a Sub-project which
has not been previously approved by the Borrower, nor shall the
Borrower approve a Sub-project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which is not consistent with the criteria set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Each Company shall select each Sub-project being fur-
nished by each such Company to the Borrower for approval in a
manner consistent with the criteria referred to in (a) above
and shall ensure that such criteria are being consistently applied
by each such Company in the carrying out of each Approved Sub-
project which each such Company is carrying out under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall conduct its operations
and affairs in respect of the Project in accordance with sound


﻿- 15 -
financial and administrative standards and practices, with quali-
fied management and personnel, and in accordance with Laws No.
4,380 of August 21, 1964; No. 5,762 of December 14, 1971; and
Decree No. 75,512 of July 23, 1973.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition
in respect of PLANASA and the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 16 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary or advisable to enable each of the Companies
and the Guarantor, as the case may be, to comply with their
respective obligations under Section 5.07 of this Agreement and
Section 3.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) continue its studies on the appropriate technical
methods for extending water supply services and waste disposal
systems into low-income areas and into areas where conventional
systems are not technically feasible or economically affordable by
the users; and
(b) provide to the Bank for review and comment the results
of such studies and the proposals of the Borrower for applying
the techniques adopted on the basis of such results to other
such areas, including, inter alia, those within the Project
States.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly, but in any event not later than 45 days after receipt
from any Project Company, the information referred to in Sections
3.07, 5.05, 5.09 and 5.11 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Additional Covenants of the Project Companies
Section 5.01. Each Company shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance
with sound business, financial and public utility practices, and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 5.02. Each Company shall:
(a) at all times take all necessary steps to maintain its
existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire
and retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement or for the efficient conduct of its
business and undertaking;


﻿- 17 -
(b) at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery,
equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices; and
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
the property or assets owned or operated by it, if such sale,
lease, transfer or disposition would materially and adversely
affect the efficient carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.03. Each Company shall make provision satisfactory
to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound public utility practices.
Section 5.04. Each Company shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently sound ac-ounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.05. Each Company shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) beginning with
the 1979 fiscal year, furnish through the Borrower to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, which report
shall include a statement of compliance during each such year by
each Company of the covenants contained in this Agreement; and
(iii) furnish through the Borrower to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of each such
Company and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request. In addition, each such Company shall, not
later than March 31 in each year until the Closing Date, furnish
through the Borrower to the Bank five-year financial projections
expressed in local currency and UPCs and set forth in an income
statement, statement of cash flow, balance sheet and calculation
of fixed assets in operation, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Section 5.06. Each Company shall correct the monetary value
of its fixed assets in service at the end of each fiscal year in
accordance with the provisions of Article 185 of the Guarantor's
Law No. 6404.


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower and each of the Companies shall take all such action
(including action with respect to the filing of appropriate
applications with respect to the setting or adjustment of the
Company's rates for its water supply and sewerage services) as
shall be necessary or advisable to cause the Company's rates for
such services to be set and maintained at such levels as will
produce revenues, as permitted by the Legislation, which shall be
sufficient, fter covering the Company's operating costs and
depreciation charges in accordance with sound water supply and
sewerage utility and financial practices, as required by the
Legislation, to enable the Company to earn an annual rate of
return (taxa de remuneragao autorzada) on permissible invest-
ment (investimento reconhecido), as such terms are defined in the
Legislation, such taxa to be set or increased gradually every year
so that, by 1983, the taxa applicable for that year and all years
thereafter shall be not less than that provided in the Legisla-
tion.
(b) The term "operating costs and depreciation charges"
includes, as provided in the Legislation: (i) operating costs
(despesas de exploragao); (ii) provision for bad debts (provisao
para devedores); (iii) straight-line depreciation of assets based
on the useful lives of depreciable assets in operation (quotas de
depreciaiao); and (iv) amortization of capitalized operating
costs (amortizagoes de despesas).
Section 5.08. Each Company shall:
(a) prepare with the Borrower, in accordance with the
Legislation, a proposal for tariffs for sewage collection and
treatment services, including a schedule for putting into effect
such tariffs;
(b) not later than January 31, 1981, furnish such proposal
through the Borrower to the Bank for approval; and
(c) not later than January 31, 1982, put into effec- such
proposal according to such schedule.
Section 5.09. Each Company shall, not later than December 31,
1980, furnish through the Borrower to the Bank for review and
comment a plan for production metering for each major water system
operated by the respective Company, including a schedule for
execution, and shall thereafter put such plan into effect.


﻿- 19 -
Section 5.10. CORSAN shall, not later than December 31, 1981,
establish and adequately staff, and shall thereafter maintain, an
internal audit office satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.11. Each Company shall, not later than June 30,
1980, establish a system of monitoring indicators satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank and shall furnish through the Borrower
to the Bank, not later than two months after the end of each
quarter, a progress report which shall include such itformation as
the Bank shall reasonably request, including the following:
(a) progress of Project execution, including, in addition to
the information required under Section 3.07 (b) (iii) of this
Agreement, details on design completion, physical execution of the
works, and disbursements;
(b) statistical data on the number of water and sewer
connections, volume of water produced, volume of water and
sewerage billed and average rates; and
(c) preliminary financial statements setting forth signifi-
cant operating and financial ratios separately for water supply
and sewerage.
ARTICLE VI
Additional Covenants of States
of Parana, Santa Catarina and
Rio Grande do Sul
Section 6.01. Each Project State covenants and warrants that
the Project is of paramount importance to its economic development
and the social welfare of its inhabitants, and that it will
fully support ths Project by cooperating with the Company operat-
ing in each such Project State in the execution of the Project and
by providing, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources on its part required for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities and services included in the Proj-
ect.
Section 6.02. Each Project State shall take or cause its
agencies and instrumentalities to take all such action as shall be
required to assist the Company operating in each such Project
State in the performance of the obligations of such Company under


﻿- 20 -
this Agreement, including the obligations of such Company speci-
fied in Sections 3.01, 3.05 (b)l 5.07, 5.08, 5.09, 5.10 and 5.11
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any of the Project Companies or the
Project States or the Project State Banks shall have failed
to perform any of its respective obligations (i) under the Appli-
cable PLANASA Agreement, or (ii) in respect of any of the Project
States or Project Companies under this Agreement;
(b) any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the
Project Companies or for the suspension of its operations;
(c) any of the Estatutos Sociais shall have been amended so
as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the operations or financial condition of thf Company in
question;
(d) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken, Licluding any action by the Guarantor or any of the
Project States, which will materially and adversely affect PLANASA
or the carrying out of the Project or the financial condition or
operations of the Borrower or the financial condition or opera-
tions, including the setting or adjustment of the rates charged
for its services, of any of the Project Companies;
(e) a change shall have been made in any of the Applicable
PLANASA Agreements which will materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of any Approved Sub-project, the operations of the
Company or of the State Bank which are parties to such Applicable
PLANASA Agreement or which will result in a substantive modifi-
cation of the financial conditions under which Approved Sub-
projects are financed; and
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that aiy of the Project Companies or


﻿- 21 -
Project States will be able to perform its respective obligations
under this Agreement or exercise its respective rights under the
Applicable PLANASA Agreement; provided, however, that if the event
referred to in this paragraph (f) shall have occurred and be
continuing, the Bank may suspend the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account only in respect of amounts
allocated under Section 2.02 of this Agreement to any part of the
Project for the respective Company or Project. State to which such
event has occurred.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or
(d) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement Ohall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower, to the Project State in question and
to the Company operating in such Project State.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of one of the Project States and of the Company operat-
ing in such Project State have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental and corporate action; and
(b) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinions to be furnished to
the Bank:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Project State


﻿- 22 -
taken into account for purposes of Section 8.01 (a) of this
Agreement and of the Project Company operating in such Project
State, and is legally binding upon them in accordance with its
terms; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor and by the Project State
referred to in paragraph (a) above, by their political sub-
divisions (other than such Project State) or agencies, by any
agency of any such political subdivisions, o. otherwise to be
performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of each
Part of the Project related to such Project State and to enable
such Project State, the Borrower and the Company operating in such
Project State to perform all of the obliga:ions of each of them
contained in this Agreement (including the obligations thereof
relating to procurement) together with all necessary powers and
rights in connection therewith, including the full power and
authority of such Company to construct and operate the Sub-
projects, have been performed or given.
Section 8.03. The date a     L    (s (      is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Secti    12.   of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01, The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Wrshington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 23 -
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional da Habita-o
Av. Republica do Chile 230
20000 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
HABITAgAO                   2121335
Rio
For SANEPAR:
Companhia de Saneamento do
Parana
Rua Eng. Reboucas, 1376
Curitiba, Parana
Brazil CEP 80000
Telex:
(041) 5913
For CASAN:
Companhia Catarinense de Aguas
e Saneamento
Rua Emilio Blum, X0 11
Florianopolis, Santa Catarina
Brazil CEP 88000
Telex:
(048) 2243 CASNBR
For CORSAN:
Companhia Rio Grandense de
Saneamento
Rua Caldas Junior, 120-180 andar
Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul
Brazil CEP 90000


﻿- 24 -
For the State of Parana:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Estado do Parana
Palacio Iguaqu
Curitiba, Parana
Brazil
Telex:
041 5156
For the State of Santa Catarina:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Estado da Santa Catarina
Palacio do Governo
Praca 15 de Novembro
Florianopolis, Santa Catarina
Brazil
Telex:
0482-171
For the State of Rio Grande do Sul:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Estado do Rio Grande do Sul
Palacio dos A§orianos
Rio Grande do Sul
Brazil
Telex:
051 1123
Section 9.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of one of the Project States may be taken
or executed b- the Governor of such Project State o- such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writii., and such
Project State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evieence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.


﻿- 25 -
Section 9.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of one of the Project Companies may be
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing, and such Company shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 9.04. Whenever the Bank, one of the Project States or
one of the Project Companies shall, for purposes of the Project,
write to each other or take any action or give any notice, as
required or permitted as the case may be, they shall simul-
taneously furnish to the Borrower copies of all correspondence or
documents or other information in respect thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
4grpement to b esigned in th     ryespective names in the City of
Federative Republic
of Brazil, as of he day and year f rst above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAQAO
By
Authorized Representative
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 26 -
STATE OF PARANA
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DO PARANA - SANEPAR
Authorized Representative
-Au-t-horiz ed.Jeprese.ntat.ir
COMPANHIA CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO -
CASAN
By
Authorized Representative
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 27 -
COMPANHIA RIO GRANDENSE DE SANEAMENTO -
CORSAN
By
Authorízed Representative
ho~4-ps-n-t--v


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project comprises Sub-projects included or to be included
in PLANASA and technical assistance to the Project Companies to
enhance their present and future role in the carrying out of
PLANASA. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Execution of Approved Sub-projects in the
State of Parana
(1) Approved Sub-projects for the city of Curitiba.
(2) Approved Sub-projects for about 32 Medium-size Cities
and about 135 Small Communities within the State of
Parana.
(3) Approved Sub-projects for production and consumption
metering.
(4) Engineering services for detailed design and construc-
tion supervision of the works under the Project, includ-
ing the preparation of a master plan for the city of
Curitiba.
Part B:   Execution of Approved Sub-projects in the
State of Santa Catarina
(1) Approved Sub-projects for the city of Florianopolis.
(2) Approved Sub-projects for about 34 Medium-size Cities
and about 40 Small Communities within the State of Santa
Catarina.
(3) Approved Sub-projects for production and consumption
metering.
(4) Engineering services for detailed design and construc-
tion supervision of the works under the Project, includ-
ing the preparation of a master plan for the city of
Florianopolis.


﻿- 29 -
Part C:   Execution of Approved Sub-projects in the
State of Rio Grande do Sul
(1) Approved Sub-projects for about 82 Medium-size Cities
and about 35 Small Communities within the State of Rio
Grande do Sul.
(2) Approved Sub-projects for production and consumption
metering.
(3) Engineering services for detailed design and construc-
tion supervision of the works under the Project.
Part D:   Strengthening of the financial planning and managerial
capabilities of SANEPAR, CASAN and CORSAN and for this
purpose, technical assistance services will be provided,
inter alia, in the following areas:
(1) SANEPAR: Physical and Financial Planning
(2) CASAN:     Physical and Financial Planning
Internal Audit Controls
Physical Works Control and Supervision
Information Systems
(3) CORSAN:    Information Systems
Part E:   Improving the internal information system, project
appraisal procedures and supervisory capability of the
Superintendencia and for this purpose, technical assis-
tance services will be provided.
The Project is expected to be comAleted by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   October 1, 1994                    5,415,000
On April 1, 1995                                  5,455,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                7.15%
More than .hirteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, each Company shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender made by each such Company or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. Each such Company shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar equipment and materials shall be grouped
together for purposes of bidding, such groups to be of a size
satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower and the Company in ques-
tion.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Company in question of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 33 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of
the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the compatison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (A) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the


﻿- 34 -
evaluated bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each group B bid an amount equal to (A) the amount of customt
duties and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods
if they originated from the same foreign country as the goods
involved in a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs duties
and other import taxes or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $400,000 and contracts for civil works estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $3,000,000 shall be procured in
accordance with locally advertised bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Each Company shall, before
qualification is invited by each such Company, inform the Bank in
detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by each
such Company to the Bank for its coments before the applicants
are notified of the Borrower's decision, and each such Company
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and to all contracts for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited by a Company, such Company
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall


﻿- 35 -
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, such
Company shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform such Company and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, each Company shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis cf the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform each Company and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Preparation, Eligibility and Execution Criteria
for Sub-projects
(a) For each Sub-project:
(i) The Sub-project has been included in the most
recent EVG of the respective Company approved
by BNH and accepted by the Bank.
(ii) Total Sub-project cost will not be substantially
higher than that included in the respective
EVG. If the Sub-project scope or costs are substan-
tially different from those contemplated in the
EVG, satisfactory evidence will be presented to the
Borrower and to the Bank that such inclusion and
financing will not deteriorate the Company's
financial position.
(iii) When preparing appraisals (including relatorios and
projetos t&cnicos) for Sub-projects, each Company
will follow the Borrower's guidelines in effect as
of November 1, 1978, as the same may be amended
from time to time. The relatorio and the projeto
tecnico for each Sub-project will include the
construction schedule, cost estimates, investment
schedule and costs and revenues projections pre-
pared in accordance with methods satisfactory to
the Bank and the Borrower.
(iv) The design will be in conformity with sound engi-
neering practices.
(v) The least-cost solution should be selected in
accordance with generally accepted economic analy-
sis techniques.
(b) In addition to the above, for each water supply or water
supply and sewerage Sub-project to be carried out in a Medium-size
City or in a capital city, the internal financial rate of return
should be at least equal to the average cost of capital to the
respective Company, provided it does not substantially deteriorate
the financial position of the Company as established in the EVG;
if not, the Sub-project will be eligible for financing under the


﻿- 37 -
Loan only if the social and economic justification provided for in
the report referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) herein is satisfac-
tory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) For each Sub-project which consists only of sewerage
works, in addition to fulfilling the criteria refefred to in (a)
above, the Borrower and the Bank will be furnished with economic
and sound justification, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, for the carrying out of such Sub-project.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (b) above, "internal finan-
cial rate of return" means a discount rate calculated by equaliz-
ing the value of incremental revenues estimated to be generated
by the Sub-project during the life of such Sub-project and the
value of capital invested in, plus the value of incremental
operating, maintenance and administrative costs of, such Sub-
project, both in the same period referred to above; such incre-
mental revenues and costs to be projected in constant prices
and in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower.
(e) For each Sub-project which will be carried out in a
Small Community, in addition to the criteria referred to in (a)
above:
(i) the construction costs of such Sub-project, divided
by the number of inhabitants to be served by such
Sub-project, will be less than the equivalent of
$180;
(ii) such Sub-project will be in conformity with the
Borrower's standard technical designs for Small
Communities;
(iii) if the cost referred to in (i) above exceeds the
equivalent of $180, the Sub-project will be rede-
signed in accordance with lower acceptable stand-
ards or staged in such a way to fulfill such
criterion; and
(iv) if after the above-mentioned redesign, the Sub-
project does not fulfill the above-mentioned
criteria, the Borrower and the Bank should be
provided with satisfactory social and economic
justification for the carrying out of such Sub-
project.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraphs (a) and (b) of such Section shall have been
received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan,
or naving been so received, sh-zll have been denied, or (c)
after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawal- from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, witi, respect to stch amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
(2) Section 9.01 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 9.01. Cooperation and Information. (a) The
Bank, the Borrower, the States of Parana, Santa Catarina and
Rio Grande do Sul, SANEPAR, CASAN, CORSAN and the Guarantor
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank, the Borrower,
the States of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul,
SANEPAR, CASAN, CORSAN and the Guarantor shall from time to
time, at the request of any one of them:
(i) exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the progress of the Project,
the benefits derived therefrom and the
performance of their respective obligations


﻿- 39 -
under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan; and
(ii) furnish to the other party all such informa-
tion as it shall reasonably request with
regard to the progress of the Project, the
benefits derived therefrom and the general
status of the Loan.
(b) The Bank, the Borrower, the States of Parana,
Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, SANEPAR, CASAN and
CORSAN and the Guarantor shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by any one of them of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement,
as the case may be.
(c) The Guarantor and the States of Parana, Santa
Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Bank to
visit any part of its respective territories for purposes
related to the Loan."
(3) The words "SANEPAR, CASAN, CORSAN, each of the Project
States" are added between the words "Borrower" and "and" in
the second line of Section 10.01.
(4) The words "and the parties to the Loan Agreement other
than the Bank and the Borrower" are added after the word "Guaran-
tor" in paragraph (b), in the third line of paragraph (c) and in
the fifth line of paragraph (i), all of Section 10.04.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day ofLZI(v  , 1990.
FOR SECRETARY


