Docummt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rbywt No. 14050
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSThENT CREDIT
IDA CREDITS 1941-MAG, AND 1941-1, 1941-2,
1941-3, 1941-4, 1941-5)
MARCH 14, 1995
Country Operations and Industry & Finance Division
Country Department III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Malagasy franc (FMG)
1985                US$1 = FMG  662
1986                US$1 = FMG  676
1987                US$1 = FMG 1069
1988                US$1 = FMG 1407
1989                US$1 = FMG 1603
1990                US$1 = FMG 1494
1991                US$1 = FMG 1835
1992                US$1 = FMG 1868
1993                US$1 = FMG 1928
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAC          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BFV           Commercial Bank (Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra)
BMOI          Commercial Bank (Banque Malgache de l'Ocean Indien)
BNI           Industrial Development Bank (Bankin'ny Indostria)
BTM          National Rural Development Bank (Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra)
DGGP          Privatization office
DSP           Core public investment program
EMSAP         Economic Management and Social Action Project
EPZ           Export Processing Zone
FMG           Malagasy Franc (franc malgache)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
ISAC          Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
ITPAC        Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
OGL           Open General License
PE            Public Enterprise
PEP           Public Expenditure Program
PCR           Project Completion Report
PIP           Public Investment Program
PSAC          Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SDR           Special Drawing Right



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 14, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Madagascar -
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Madagascar - Public Sector Adjustment Credit
(Credits 1941-MAG and 1941-1, 1941-2, 1941-3, 1941-4, 1941-5) prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. The Borrower declined to complete Part II, the authorities noting that project implementation
was the responsibility of the previous regime.
The main objective of the credit was to build on the liberalization and trade reforms supported
by previous credits by raising the efficiency of public resources. The credit aimed to: (a) strengthen
the public investment and budgetary formulation process; (b) reform the civil service; (c) rationalize
the public enterprise sector; and (d) liberalize and reform the state-owned banking system. In the
external sector, the project supported the removal of remaining administrative restrictions, agricultural
export monopolies, and price controls.
Implementation proceeded rapidly in some areas (continued liberalization of exports, banking
sector reform), but delays in budgetary and civil service reform and public enterprise
restructuring/divestiturepostponed the release of the second tranche by nearly two years. Subsequently,
prolonged political upheaval, accompanied by reversals of some of the policies adopted earlier,
disrupted the adjustment process. Parastatal reform was halted, civil service reform never got off the
ground, and public sector deficits remain a major obstacle to recovery. The closing date of the credit
was extended twice, and eventually the third tranche was canceled. Although the adjustment program
as a whole has contributed to the creation of a more open, market-oriented economy, the supply
response has been disappointing. Per capita GDP grew only marginally during the first three years of
the project, and living standards deteriorated, contributing to the political turmoil; subsequently GDP
fell.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain and the institutional
development is rated as negligible.
The PCR is of good quality. An audit is planned, together with an audit of the Industry and
Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1834).  The audit will examine the role of government
commitment and political uncertainty in the failure of the project to achieve all of its objectives; the
results of the public enterprise reform program; and the extent to which the adjustment process so far
has laid the groundwork for future growth.
Attachment
Tlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1941-MAG. AND 1941-1. 1941-2. 1941-3. 19414. 1941-5)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                               iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                                                                   1
Background                                                                         1
Country Background and Performance                                         I
Adjustment Context                                                         2
Objectives and Content or the Program                                              3
Credit Genesis                                                             3
Credit Objectives and Description                                          4
Implementation and Performance                                                     5
Program Implementation                                                     5
Economic Performance                                                       7
Implementation of Individual Components                                    8
Impact of Adjustment                                                      13
Conclusions                                                                      14
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                               16
PART III. STATISTICAL ANNEX                                                      17
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 2: Credit Data
Table 3: Credit Timetable: Original and Actual Dates
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements
Table 5: Use of Bank Resources
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 1941-MAG AND 1941-1, 1941-2, 1941-2, 1941-3, 19414, 1941-5)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector Adjustment Credit
(PSAC) to Madagascar. The Credit was approved by the Board on June 29, 1988 and
comprised of IDA credit 1941-MAG for SDR 90.5 million, and five IDA reflows: 1941-1-
MAG for SDR 1.1 million, 1941-2-MAG for SDR 0.9 million, 1941-3-MAG for SDR 1.2
million, 1941-4-MAG for SDR 1.0 million, and 1941-5-MAG for SDR 0.99 million. The
following cofinancing has been provided: a credit of 30 million units of account (UA) (US$40
million equivalent) from the African Development Fund; a grant of SwF 10 million (US$7.5
million equivalent) from  Switzerland; and a grant of NKr 20 million (US$2.9 million
equivalent) from Norway. The PSAC was closed on September 30, 1993 and a balance of
SDR 33.0 million was cancelled.
This PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division, AF3 (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III). In March 1994 the Borrower was requested to review Parts I and
III and to prepare Part II. The new Government, however, which was put in place in August
1993 following a two-year political transition, declined to complete Part II. The authorities
said that the implementation of the PSAC was the responsibility of the previous regime and as
such they did not feel competent to comment on it.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on a project completion mission, the
Initiating Memorandum, the President's Report, the Credit Agreements, supervision reports,
and internal Bank memoranda.



I



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credits 1941-MAG and 1941-1, 1941-2, 1941-3
1941-4, 1941-5)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Since independence in 1960, Madagascar's economic record is one of modest growth to
1970 followed by stagnation from 1970 to 1980. The disappointing growth performance of the
1970s stemmed largely from inappropriate economic policies emphasizing a much increased
public sector role. Between 1978 and 1980, the Government embarked on an "all-out' public
investment policy which included large and economically non-viable projects and resulted in a
large debt accumulation. These policies, combined with deteriorating terms of trade, led to an
11 percent decline in real GDP from  1980 to 1982.  During the 1983-1985 period, the
Government carried out a generally successful stabilization program with IMF support which
succeeded in halting the economic decline, and GDP grew by 1.4 percent p.a. on average
between 1983 and 1987.
2.    In 1985, when the fiscal deficit and the inflation rate had been reduced to manageable
levels, the Government turned its attention to structural adjustment efforts with the support of
the Bank and other donors. The main thrust of the adjustment program was to correct the
large currency overvaluation, reduce price controls, streamline and reform the inefficient
parastatal sector and state-owned banking system, liberalize domestic and external trade, and
generally trim sharply Government interference in private economic activity.  The Bank
provided assistance to the program through four IDA credits: (i) the Industrial Assistance
Credit (1985--US$60 million), which supported some initial price liberalization; (ii) the
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (1986--US$100 million including cofinancing), which
mainly supported liberalization of the rice marketing; (iii) the Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Credit (1987--US$100 million including cofinancing), which mainly supported
reform in the tariff and exchange regime; and (iv) the Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC,
June 1988--US$180 million including cofinancing).
Objectives
3.    Building on the liberalization, tariff and exchange reforms introduced under the
previous credits, the objective of PSAC was to raise the efficiency of public resources. A
comprehensive program was launched for the strengthening of the public investment and
budgetary formulation process; the reform of the civil service; the rationalization of the public
enterprise sector; and the liberalization and reform of the state-owned banking system. The
PSAC also supported the elimination of administrative export restrictions and state agricultural
export monopolies, and the lifting of remaining price controls. In addition, concerted attention
began to be given to population problems, and to the social aspects of development. The
program, which was designed in close consultation with the IMF staff, was supported also by
an ESAF approved in May 1989.



iv
Implementation Experience
4.     Since credit effectiveness in December 1988 until mid-1991, when political turmoil
swept the country, implementation of the program proceeded rapidly in certain areas
(liberalization of exports, banking sector reform) but more slowly in others (public enterprise
reform, revision of budgetary procedures). Release of the second tranche, originally expected
in May 1989, took place in March 1991 only. Mobilizing the specialized technical assistance
needed for implementation of the complex reform measures proved more difficult than
anticipated. Also, presidential elections in 1989 and the consensus approach to decision-
making contributed to delays in program implementation. In 1990, lax credit management led
to increased inflation and to the depletion of external reserves.
5.     The political crisis which erupted in mid-1991 disrupted economic activity and,
together with the policy backtrack of 1990, derailed the adjustment effort.  The growing
shortage of foreign exchange during the second half of 1991 led to the suspension of the Open
General License (OGL) import system (introduced in July 1988) and its replacement by a
rationing mechanism of foreign exchange allocation. The already slow implementation pace of
the parastatal reforms came to a halt.
Results
6.     Overall, the adjustment program contributed to establishing a more open and market-
oriented economy. Achievements under the PSAC included: (i) a significant improvement in
the programming and composition of public expenditure and in the reform of the budgetary
system; (ii) the promulgation of a new Investment Code and free-trade zone legislation in
December 1989; (iii) the enactment of a Banking Law in May 1988 allowing, for the first time,
the participation of private capital in existing banks and the creation of new private financial
institutions; and (iv) the formulation of a comprehensive health strategy establishing policy and
strategy in the health sector and defining priority activities to be financed by public
expenditure. A comprehensive reform of the civil service was prepared but not implemented.
Sustainability and Conclusions
7.    The adjustment program had a major impact on reversing the economic decline and
laying the foundation for the recovery of the Malagasy economy. It provoked an important
shift in mind sets, which endures to this day. The success of the Free Trade Zone regime,
although modest, demonstrated that the potential for export-led, private-sector-based growth
exists. Overall, however, the performance was disappointing. A per capita growth of 0.5
percent p.a. on average during the period 1988-90 was far from sufficient to reverse the long
term  decline in the living conditions of the population.  The reforms were not deeply
internalized and were only partially implemented. There was strong resistance from many
quarters, including politicians, civil servants, trade-unions, and traditional business.
8.    Three major lessons can be drawn from the experience. First, the piecemeal approach
followed in the past, which may have been the only way to introduce policy changes in
Madagascar at the time, failed to generate a strong enough supply response. Second, the
preoccupation with detailed processes obscured the strategic vision which was needed to create
and maintain the momentum for reform. Third, the failure to address poverty issues in the
design of the adjustment process led to a massive rejection of government policies and to the
eventual political turmoil.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credits 1941-MAG, and 1941-1, 1941-2,
1941-3, 1941-4, 1941-5)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:        Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC)
IDA Credit Number:  1941-MAG, and 1941-1, 1941-2, 1941-3,
1941-4 and 1941-5.
Region:             Africa
Country:             Madagascar
Sector:             Sectoral Adjustment Credit
Background
Country Background and Performance
1.    Madagascar, a large island off the southeastern coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean, has
a vast range of natural resources and a wide assortment of ecological and climatic variations.
With an area of 587,000 square kilometers, it is sparsely populated by about 12 million
inhabitants; however, population is growing at about 2.8% p.a.. With a per capita income
estimated at US$220 in 1992, Madagascar is among the poorest countries in the world. The
agricultural sector accounts for about 33 percent of GDP, and employs approximately 80
percent of the work force. The industrial sector accounts for 14 percent of GDP.
2.     Modest growth from independence to 1972 was followed by a declining GDP per capita
until 1987.  The disappointing growth of the 1970s stemmed largely from  inappropriate
economic policies.  These emphasized a much increased public sector role, with import
substitution in industry as the central objective and agriculture in a support role, and pervasive
controls on private economic activity. Between 1978 and 1980, the Government embarked on
an "all-out" public investment policy which included large and economically non-viable
projects. These policies, combined with deteriorating terms of trade, led to an 11 percent
decline in real GDP from 1980 to 1982 and a large external debt burden, which still severely
constrains economic growth.
3.    During the 1980s, the focus of economic management moved from the urgent need of
financial stabilization with IMF assistance in the first part of the decade to supply-oriented
measures supported by the Bank and the Fund in the second part. Between 1983 and 1987, the
economic decline of the preceding three years was arrested, and the economy grew at a modest
average rate of 1.4 percent per annum. The improved policy environment contributed to an
acceleration of economic growth starting in 1988, when GDP grew faster than population at 3.4



2
percent. The economy continued to grow by another 4.1 percent in 1989 and by 3.1 percent in
1990. In 1990, however, lax credit policies led to increased inflation and to the depletion of
external reserves.
4.    In mid-1991, political turmoil swept the country, accelerating the pace of transition
towards a more open society, but disrupting economic activity and, together with the policy
backtrack of 1990, derailing the adjustment process. A transitional power-sharing arrangement
was negotiated out of the political stalemate and a new coalition government was put in place in
January 1992. Presidential elections took place in February 1993 and the opposition candidate
was elected.  Legislative elections were held in June 1993, and in August the National
Assembly chose its leadership and the prime minister, who announced most of his cabinet at the
end of August. The political transition was peaceful but adversely affected the economy and
economic reform effort. GDP declined by about 7% in 1991 and grew by only 1% in 1992.
External arrears continued to grow.  Tax revenues were low, and combined with lax
management of expenditure, led to a budget deficit of 10% of GDP in 1992.
Adjustment Context
5.    The Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC), was the fourth in a series of adjustment
operations. Its aim was to consolidate the policies adopted under the first three operations
(increased efficiency in resource allocation through liberalization of product and factor
markets), and capitalize on them by additional measures in the public enterprise, financial
sector, public expenditure, external sector, and social policy areas.
6.     Four IDA adjustment credits have been extended to Madagascar since 1985. Initially,
the Government was not ready to implement a broad-based structural adjustment effort.
Instead, it adopted a more cautious reform strategy to address the structural distortions sector
by sector.  This approach was supported by two IDA sector credits--the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit (ISAC) in 1985 and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) in
1986. Building on these two operations, the adjustment process gained momentum and, the
Government, recognizing that sectoral policy improvements by themselves were unlikely to lead
to significant and rapid supply response, moved decisively to a broader agenda of far-reaching
reforms supported successively by the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC)
in 1987 and the Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) in 1988.
7.    In industry, the Government eliminated in 1985 most ex-factory price controls and
reduced controls on profit margins. Also, it improved the quality of public investment in
manufacturing; eliminated export taxes on manufactured products and promulgated a more
private sector-oriented investment code.  This effort was supported by the ISAC (US$60
million), which became effective in July 1985. The PCR for this project (February 5, 1992)
concludes that this operation, although perhaps modest in its specific conditionality, played a
key role in setting the political economy stage for a comprehensive reform program.
8.    In agriculture, a number of institutional improvements had been achieved by 1985, with
support from IDA through project lending. Also, in the context of IMF-supported stabilization
programs, consumer subsidies on rice (Madagascar's main staple) had been eliminated.
Building on these improvements, the Government moved beyond adjustments in administered
producer prices to a thorough refashioning of the rice pricing and marketing regime, which
included its liberalization and the removal of the monopsony of state agencies. These reforms



3
were supported by the ASAC (US$100 million, including cofinancing), which became effective
in September 1986. The PCR for this project (July 2, 1993) concludes that implementation has
been generally satisfactory, even though the second tranche was released with a two-year delay
in April 1989; however, its direct and immediate impact on agricultural production, other than
rice, was marginal.
9.     The sectoral policy improvements in industry and agriculture were unlikely to lead to a
lasting supply response as long as the external trade and exchange regime continued to be
dominated by quantitative restrictions and an overvalued exchange rate. The Government thus
moved in 1987 to establish a market-determined trade and foreign exchange-allocation regime.
These efforts were supported by the ITPAC (US$100 million, including cofinancing), which
became effective in September 1987, and included: (a) large devaluations totaling 46 percent in
foreign currency terms; (b) the replacement, in January 1988, of quantitative import restrictions
for protective purposes with a simplified tariff structure; and (c) the first steps toward replacing
the discretionary foreign exchange allocation system with the introduction of a full-fledged
Open General License System (OGL). The PCR (April 15, 1992) concludes that the core
objective of ITPAC--to implement trade policy reforms increasing competition and efficiency of
the industrial sector and enhancing its contribution to the economy--was substantially realized.
Implementation, however, experienced major delays caused by difficulties in the privatization
and/or liquidation of the ten targeted public enterprises.
10.   The PSAC (US$180 million, including cofinancing) became effective in December
1988. This operation was geared to support additional actions aimed at reducing the heavy
direct involvement of the state in the economy and improving public sector management. The
policy package supported by this operation focused on: (a) restructuring and privatization of
public enterprises; (b) introducing a new public sector budgeting system; (c) extending the
annual public investment program into a rolling three-year Public Investment Program (PIP)
process and preparation of annual public expenditure programs; (d) restructuring the banking
system; (e) eliminating administrative export restrictions and the state stabilization funds'
monopoly on pepper, cloves and coffee; and (f) initiating a comprehensive civil service reform.
Analysis of experience with the implementation of this Credit and of its impact on the economy
is the subject of this report.
Objectives and Content of the Program
Credit Genesis
11.    As of the beginning of 1988, the Government had made good progress toward
addressing many of its economic problems. It had substantially redressed the fiscal, monetary,
and external imbalances; eliminated most price controls; largely corrected the exchange rate
overvaluation; and replaced quantitative import restrictions with a simplified tariff system. The
Government's overall objective was to preserve the progress made in financial stabilization,
while achieving an early transition to sustained per capita growth with increased social equity.
12.   Within this framework, the central task not yet addressed by previous adjustment
policies was an increase in the efficiency of allocation and use of public sector resources.
Because of the pressing stabilization needs, public expenditure had in the past been cut with
insufficient attention to efficiency or the social aspects of adjustment. As a result, although



4
expenditure monitoring and control had improved since 1983, the pattern of public expenditure
did not fully correspond to the country development priorities and was in some respects
inconsistent with the new incentive framework. The overall size and allocation of the civil
service needed to be reviewed, as well. The fundamental objective was not only to raise the
efficiency of public services but also to reorient them toward activities that supported the
private sector efforts made possible by the liberalized environment.
13.    With the support of PSAC, the Government's strategy for the next phase of adjustment
centered on the following four policy areas: (i) public expenditure; (ii) export promotion and
trade liberalization; (iii) the public enterprise and financial sectors; and (iv) social policies.
Credit Objectives and Description
14.    Credit Objectives. The policy package contained in the PSAC had as its objective to
promote an early transition to per capita growth with increased social equity, through measures
to accelerate the supply response to the new market-oriented incentive structure.
15.    Credit Components. PSAC included five major components:
*  Public Expenditure Reform to raise the efficiency of public services and to reorient
them toward activities supporting the private sector efforts which were made possible
by the liberalized environment.  The four major aspects of the reform  were:  (i)
definition of detailed priorities for current and development public expenditure; (ii)
formulation of strategies for the major economic and social sectors; (iii) strengthening
the institutional basis of public expenditure programming; and (iv) formulation of a
consolidated budget including all sources and uses of funds.
*  Public Enterprise Reform, with the objective to:  (i) reduce in the short-term the
sector's adverse financial impact on the economy; (ii) rationalize the sector by a
program of liquidation of unviable enterprises or divestitures of PEs (except for those
with a clear natural monopoly or strategic role); and (iii) improve the efficiency of the
enterprises remaining in the public sector, and adapt the regulatory framework
accordingly.
*  Financial Sector Reform to liberalize and improve the efficiency of the banking system
through effective competition and appropriate disposition of doubtful and non-
performing loans.
.  Export Promotion and Trade Liberalization with the objectives to:  (i) expand
traditional exports to the full extent permitted by the world market structure and
demand constraints; (ii) diversify to non-traditional export activities by building on the
country's resource base; and (iii) foster the liberalization of imports.
*  Social Policies.  In conjunction with the Economic Management and Social Action
Program Credit (EMSAP, approved in December 1988), the PSAC aimed to: (i)
address the consequences of the prolonged economic decline; (ii) cushion the
repercussions of certain adjustment measures on specific groups; and (iii) help meet
more effectively the general social objectives of development.



5
Implementation and Performance
Program Implementation
16.   Effectiveness. The PSAC became effective on December 16, 1988, about four months
behind original schedule. The three policy-related conditions of effectiveness included: (i)
promulgation of the implementing decree for the new Banking Law; (ii) promulgation of
legislation concerning trade liberalization; and (iii) satisfactory preparation of procedures for the
formulation of restructuring plans for six public enterprises. The cross-effectiveness clause
concerning the African Development Fund credit was waived.
17.    Second Tranche Release. The release of the second tranche, originally expected in
May 1989, took place in March 1991 only. At the time of second tranche release, six of the
seven conditions for second tranche release were met, albeit with considerable delays. The
conditions satisfied were:
*  Preparation of a 3-year public investment program  (1989-91) and an overall public
expenditure program for 1989, both acceptable to IDA. Acceptable 1990-92 and 1991-
93 public investment programs had also been prepared by the time of second tranche
release.
*  Preparation of a comprehensive health sector strategy.
*  Completion of a comprehensive census of central government permanent employees.
*  Establishment of a unit responsible for performance review, rehabilitation  and
restructuring of public enterprises.
*  Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the action plan for public enterprises.
*  Preparation of action plans for the two national banks (BFV  and BTM) and the
restructuring plan for the third bank (BNI), acceptable to the Association.
The seventh condition--completion of a proposal for a new budgeting system--was waived by the
Board in February 1991 and became a condition for third tranche release. In addition, the
second tranche amount was increased by about US$10 million equivalent in response to foreign
exchange needs as a result of higher petroleum prices ensuing from the Gulf crisis.
18.    Third Tranche Release. By August 1993, of the seven conditions for third tranche
release, four conditions were met:
*  Regulatory measures for implementation of a new budgeting system
*  Implementation of the action plans for the two national banks and the restructuring plan
for the third national bank.
*  Agreement on an action plan to restructure agricultural export marketing.
*  Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the four-year program of tariff reform.



6
The three remaining conditions were not met:
*  Preparation of a three-year PIP/PEP acceptable to IDA. The 1993-95 PIP/PEP was not
satisfactory with expenditures 21% over the amount recommended.
*  Preparation of a program, acceptable to IDA, to improve management of central
government permanent employees. In April 1992, Government approved an action plan
as agreed with the Bank, and appointed a commission to oversee its implementation.
Following issues raised by the commission on the approach used to define the action
plan, Government reversed its position and adopted new regulations for civil service
reform, found unacceptable by the Bank.
*  Further progress in the implementation of the action plan for Public Enterprises. No
progress was made by Government to disengage from an agreed upon list of eleven
enterprises.
The closing date of the credit had already been extended twice and given the fact that no
immediate action to meet the outstanding conditions was foreseen, the credit was closed on
September 30, 1993 and the third tranche of SDR 33 million was cancelled.
19.   Disbursements. The proceeds of the IDA credit of SDR 95.7 million (about US$132
million, equivalent including five IDA reflows) were to be disbursed in three tranches: the first
of SDR 28.5 million was released upon credit effectiveness; the second of SDR 34.2 million
was released in March 1991; and the third of SDR 33 million was cancelled.
20.   The PSAC financed 100% of foreign exchange cost of eligible imports under a negative
list. The first tranche was disbursed over a period of 18 months and the second tranche over a
period of three years. The 1990 audit report identified a major irregularity in the use of funds
during the December 1989 to September 1990 period: about US$9 million were drawn directly
from the Central Bank from the special accounts on order from the Treasury in favor of one
single local importer, by-passing the normal OGL procedures, to finance commercial imports.
Only $50,000 equivalent were reimbursed in local currency. Following Bank insistence that
irregularities be corrected, the Government, in mid-1993, arrested several individuals who are
awaiting trial.



7
Economic Performance
Table 1:
MADAGASCAR-
Economic Indicators,
1988-1990
(average per annum)
Poecte               [      V          Actuals-
Projected
1988-                1988-
1990                 1990
GDP (rnarket price) growth rate                4.0                   3.5                -0.4
GDY growth rate                                4.1                   2.0                -2.2
GDY/ capita growth rate                        0.8                  -1.2                -2.0
Consumption per capita                         2.3                  -1.6                -3.9
Gross Investment/GDP                          16.5                  13.8                -2.7
Domestic Savings/GDP                           5.6                   8.1                 2.5
National Savings/GDP                          -1.9                   4.9                 6.8
Public Investment/GDP                          8.5                   8.2                -0.3
Public Savings/GDP                             0.6                  -1.5                -2.1
Private Investment/GDP                         8.0                   5.7                -2.4
Private Savings/GDP                           -2.5                   6.4                 8.8
Ratio Public Investment/Private Invest.        1.1                   1.6                 0.5
Tax Revenues/GDP                              16.6                  11.0                -5.6
Government Expenditure/GDP                    24.1                  23.6                -0.5
Deficit (-)/GDP (excluding capital grants)    -2.4                 -10.2                -7.8
Exports FOB growth rate                       10.2                   6.4                -3.7
Imports FOB growth rate                       11.4                  14.6                 3.3
Terms of Trade % Change                        0.8                  -9.3               -10.1
Current Account (in fm. USS)                -348.7                -297.4                51.3
21.     During the first three years of the program  (1988-90) the main economic target -- an
increase in per capita GDP -- was reached, although at a lower rate than forecast (see table 1).
For the first time since many years, per capita GDP increased, although modestly (0.5 percent
per year on average). In spite of negative public savings, national savings reached 5 percent of
GDP, due to stronger than anticipated private savings (6.4 percent of GDP). Living conditions
deteriorated with a decline in per capita income (-1.2 percent), and a decrease in per capita
consumption (-1.6 percent), which exacerbated the poverty situation and social tensions, and
contributed to the 1991 political turmoil.
22.     The fiscal targets were not met.  Revenue mobilization was lower than expected, with
tax revenue at a mere 11 percent of GDP, compared to a forecast of 16.6 percent. The result
was a higher fiscal deficit (about 10 percent of GDP, capital grants excluded). This structural



8
imbalance has not been corrected since and remains one of the major obstacles to economic and
financial recovery. On the external account, the performance did not meet expectations:
although exports picked-up in 1989 and 1990, the overall export growth was only 6 percent per
annum, compared to 10 percent projected. Following lax credit policies, imports soared by 52
percent in 1990, leading to a current account deficit of 13 percent of GDP and the depletion of
external reserves. Overall, imports rose by 15 percent p.a. over the period, compared to 11
percent projected.
23.    Altogether, the economic performance during 1988-90 demonstrated that adjustment can
work in Madagascar. However, it also showed that reforms had not been strong enough to
eliminate structural imbalances in the fiscal and external accounts. Also the policy backtrack of
the early 1990s showed that the improvement was fragile, and that the structural adjustment
stance was not deeply internalized.
Implementation of Individual Components
24.   Public Expenditure Reform. During the fiscal stabilization period of the early 1980s,
public spending was cut from 28 percent of GDP in 1980 to 16 percent of GDP in 1983.
T-hese results were impressive in terms of their stated objective of fiscal stabilization but the
realignments were "forced" by the urgency of the stabilization task and not carefully Hplanned".
The Government had neither the breathing space nor the institutional structures needed to
manage the required compression of expenditure with sufficient attention to the efficiency of key
public services or to the social aspects of development. As a result, toward the end of 1987 the
overall level of public expenditure (23 percent of GDP) had become sustainable in a financial
sense but not in a developmental sense, because its composition and programming modes
corresponded neither to Madagascar's stated development priorities nor to the new market-
oriented incentive framework that the Government was putting in place. This situation led to
the conclusion that a strengthening of public expenditure programming and reform of the
budgetary process were to be essential parts of the next generation of adjustment.
25.   In the public investment area, the first rolling triennial public investment program
(PIP) was formulated for 1989-91, and was consistent with the move toward a reduced but more
efficient role for Government and with the major economic and social priorities. The PIPs for
1990-92 and for 1991-93 followed, and incorporated steady improvements in programming.
The bulk of expenditure was concentrated on economic and social infrastructure. Agriculture,
education, health and transport accounted for half of the total public expenditure programmed
for each year in 1989, 1990 and 1991. However, in the 1991 PIP, the share of resources
allocated to agriculture decreased slightly with a commensurate increase in the share of
infrastructure and education. PIP implementation for 1989, 1990, 1991, and 1992 was on
average about 70% of the amount budgeted. The principal reason for the underimplementation
was an inefficient budgetary and administrative system, combined with insufficient coordination
with donors, thus resulting in poor disbursements of loans and counterpart funds. The political
turmoil which took place in the latter half of 1991 interrupted the cycle, which has now
resumed with the preparation of the 1993-95 PIP.
26.   In support of the Government's investment policy which is focused on: (i) infrastructure
rehabilitation to support private sector activities; (ii) improvement in primary education; (iii)
restructuring of the health system; and (iv) implementation of poverty alleviation programs, the



9
1993-95 PIP was reformulated with World Bank assistance around a prioritizing mechanism, the
"Domaine de Suivi Prioritaire" (DSP). Introduction of the DSP was aimed to alleviate the
difficulties encountered in PIP execution and monitoring. The DSP includes key projects in
infrastructure (transport, electricity, and telecommunications), as well as in the social sectors
(health, public education, and poverty alleviation).
27.   To increase the efficiency of public resources, the strengthening of budgetary
institutions and procedures was required. With PSAC support, initial steps were taken in
1988 and 1989. In addition to the establishment of the process of formulating the rolling
triennial PIP, two new entities were created to guide the budgetary reform: the Internal Reform
Committee within the Ministry of Finance and Budget, and a new PIP monitoring office within
the Ministry of Economy and Planning. An agreed action plan included a test consolidated
budget for 1990 and a fully consolidated budget for 1991.  Several concrete institutional
improvements were effected by the Government, including the revision of budget procedures,
the tightening of the schedule for budget preparation, the integration of the PIP formulation
process within that calendar, formal Assembly approval of the PIP at the time of budget
approval, and the adoption of a new accounting system. The full proposal for a new budgeting
system was delayed, however, due to difficulties in mobilizing the specialized technical
assistance, and full completion of this second tranche condition was waived.  The revised
timetable entailed completion of the budgeting system proposal by September 1991, and its
implementation, a condition of third tranche, was envisaged before end-1991.
28.    After considerable delays in the resumption of normal budgetary processes, due to the
mid-1991 turmoil, a new budgetary system was adopted in June 1992. The 1993 budget was
formulated under the new budgeting system allowing for the functional analysis of expenditures
and the consolidation of all expenditures and revenues. Improved implementation procedures
were established in January 1993, including: streamlining the verification of payment orders;
rationalization and simplification of the appropriations allotment system; further decentralization
of payment orders; and improvement in the control of commitments. The basic principles of the
budgetary reform implemented in January 1993 fully correspond to PSAC objectives.
However, additional work remains to be done in the rationalization, simplification and
finalization of the budgetary reform process including: (i) finalization of a standard format for
both capital and current expenditures; (ii) simplification of budgetary estimates and control to
avoid continuous revisions during implementation; (iii) clarification of procedures for the
preparation and monitoring of PIP budgetary commitments; (iv) re-examination of the semestrial
commitment procedure; and, (v) improved monitoring of payment orders, Treasury transfers,
and withdrawal applications sent to donors.
29.   The deficiencies in the civil service were a key factor in the poor composition of public
expenditures. Incentives were weak, owing to the severe erosion in real wages during the
1980s. The allocation of personnel among ministries was inconsistent with the private-oriented
incentive framework the Government had put into place, and the management and control
systems were ineffective. As a first step, the Government proceeded to a systematic assessment
of the entire civil service employment situation, including a full verification of the payroll and a
comprehensive census of the civil service. The census methodology was formulated in the
course of 1989, the census took place in February 1990, and the statistical results were
completed in June 1990.  Virtually 100%  of the civil service payroll was censed, and
irregularities (fraud or errors) were identified in about 20% of payroll files. After considerable



10
delays, the results of the civil service census were finally validated in August 1992 and a
decision was taken to adjust the payroll files.
30.   In April 1992 a commission on civil service reform was established with the mandate of
implementing the Government's action plan (based on a joint Bank/Government fact-finding
report) on civil service reform. The action plan, approved in April 1992, stipulated a two-
pronged approach to civil service reform: (i) in the short-term, and within the context of the
adjustment program, actions would include maintaining the wage-bill at its current level, while
ensuring that immediate recruitment needs were met; and, (ii) in the long-term, the reform
strategy would address the institutional issues within the framework of a fundamental reform of
the civil service. The new civil service statute, adopted in 1993, redefines the responsibilities
and rights of civil servants within the new democratic framework, which in itself should
improve the functioning of the civil service. However, beyond these general principles, the
statute includes counterproductive measures, such as career growth based on seniority (without
the required technical background), and a systematic reclassification leading to rigidity of the
civil service and to a fiscally unsustainable increase in the wage bill.
31.    Public Enterprise Reform. A centerpiece of economic policy in the 1970s was the
nationalization of foreign-owned enterprises, accompanied by the creation of a large number of
new public enterprises (PEs). As a result, a large parastatal sector emerged with some 170 PEs
in existence as of the end of 1987.  The majority of these received subsidies from  the
Government and suffered from  managerial, technical and financial problems.  The 1983
stabilization program sharply reduced these subsidies. On the other hand, despite a ceiling on
credit to PEs established in 1985, the Government-owned banking sector continued to keep
these enterprises alive and as of 1987 the PE sector absorbed over 50 percent of total bank
credit.
32.    The Government's reform program of the PE sector aimed at: (i) reducing in the short-
term the sector's distortionary impact on the economy; (ii) rationalizing the sector through
liquidation of unviable PEs, or divestiture; and, (iii) improving the efficiency of the remaining
enterprises and adapting the regulatory framework accordingly. Concerning the first objective,
an indefinite moratorium on the creation of new PEs was established in 1988, new credit to
"high risk" PEs was prohibited, and the Government froze the budgetary transfers to all these
PEs at the 1987 level. With regard to the rationalization of the sector, an action plan was to be
implemented over a three-year period.  Considering the large number of  PEs and the
comprehensive nature of the proposed reform, the specific measures to be decided upon were to
be implemented in phases with due regard for their social impact and in parallel with the
necessary build-up in the institutional capacity to manage the reform program.
33.    Under ITPAC, ten enterprises were identified for liquidation/privatization, and it was
agreed that completion of the divestiture or liquidation phase was to occur by December 1988.
In December 1990, six companies had been liquidated, three were sold to private investors and
the remaining company was given an extension for its sale or liquidation until May 1991. The
PE reform program was expanded and continued under the PSAC, consisting of a multi-year
program of liquidation, divestiture, or restructuring for 51 enterprises. The enterprises selected
under both ITPAC and PSAC accounted for about two-thirds of total capital of the PE sector
and absorbed an estimated 50 percent of total credit to PEs and 70 percent of the credit to "high
risk" PEs.



I1
34.   Progress in PE reform slowed in 1989, partly due to the heavy electoral calendar of that
year (presidential and parliamentary elections), and partly to the absence of an effective
institution in charge of the reform process. To resolve the problem, in December 1990, the
Government created a special unit reporting to the Prime Minister's Office, with the
responsibility to manage in its entirety the parastatal reform program. In 1990, a new series of
divestiture, dissolution and restructuring actions took place, as agreed under the program.
35.    Following the mid-1991 turmoil and the establishment of a transitional government, the
responsibility to oversee the PE program was assigned to a task force (Delegation Generale du
Gouvernement a la Privatisation [DGGP]) reporting to a decision-making body, the "Conseil de
Surveillance" headed by the Prime Minister. The Bank's recommendations about publicity and
transparency were followed, and procedures were simplified and expedited with assets or firms
being awarded to the best offer. Also, one of the main obstacles to privatization--lack of access
by foreigners to land ownership--was partially alleviated by allowing full property rights to
foreigners, but under a set of specific conditions and subject to a case-by-case approval.
However, overall results remained meager.
36.   The April 1992 supervision mission targeted a group of 60 enterprises for divestiture,
for which liquidation or privatization was foreseen in the first two phases of PSAC. However,
as the divestiture of all the 60 targeted enterprises would have taken an inordinate amount of
time, it was agreed that the divestiture process should concentrate on the 11 largest enterprises.
The PE reform program was suspended by the transitional Government during the first half of
1993 as a cautionary measure, until after an elected government was put in place. Eventually
the last PSAC supervision mission (August 1993), determined that effective Government
disengagement during the entire program to-date, was limited to 58 enterprises of which 15
were privatized and 43 liquidated.  In addition, four PEs were contracted out to private
management and three have been restructured awaiting eventual privatization.
37.    Financial Sector Reform. The financial sector was highly inefficient and unable to
meet the challenges of a liberalized economy. The plight of the public enterprises spilled over
into the banking system, saddling the banks' portfolio with a heavy burden of non-performing
loans, crowding out credit to the private sector and pushing up interest rates to compensate for
the losses from lending to PEs . The Government reform program included measures to restore
the financial health of the banks, while liberalizing the banking system and changing the
ownership and management structure of the sector. The restoration of sound portfolios and
improvements in credit decision formulation were included as conditions under ITPAC. As a
consequence of the portfolio audits initiated in 1986, loans in the high risk category were
immediately written down to the maximum allowable under accumulated provisions. Additional
provisions for the rehabilitation of the portfolios were undertaken in April 1988 and again in
February 1989. The Central Bank ensured that the prescribed provisioning and write-offs were
fully implemented.
38.   The Banking Law of May 1988, enacted in the context of PSAC negotiations, further
established supervisory guidelines for the Central Bank and also allowed, for the first time, the
participation of private capital in existing banks and provided for the creation of new private
financial institutions. A new private bank called Banque Malgache de l'Ocean Indien (BMOI),
with 75% foreign and 25% local ownership started operations in mid-1989. In February 1991,
Credit Lyonnais, a leading French Bank, acquired majority (51%) share in BNI and assumed
management of the institution. Also, in March 1991, an Italian Bank - l'Instituto Bancario San



12
Paolo di Torino - acquired a minority (22%) participation in BFV. With these developments
only one of the four existing banks - BTM - remains under the full ownership and control of the
Government.
39.   PSAC conditionality in the reform of the banking sector involved: enactment of a new
banking law, and preparation and implementation of restructuring action plans for the three
national banks. These conditions were met. However, despite the portfolio clean-up and the
privatization moves mentioned above, the Government was unable to satisfactorily control the
growth of credit in 1990 and 1991. This was due to institutional weaknesses in the wholly
state-controlled BTM, which suffered a severe deterioration of its loan portfolio over the
1990/91 period -- a major factor in the discontinuation of the OGL import system in September
1991.  Remedial action was taken in February 1992 with the replacement of BTM  top
management, the reduction of BTM loan portfolio and the setting up of a credit ceiling in
August 1992. Problems at BTM spilled over to the other remaining majority state-owned bank,
BFV, which has since late 1991 consistently failed to respect credit ceilings. While the two
private banks have been in positions of excess liquidity and BTM reduced its refinancing
requirement, showing excess liquidity in August 1992, BFV still has a net refinancing
requirement with the Central Bank. Privatization of the remaining two state-owned banks -
BTM and BFV - will be undertaken with support from the Financial Institutions Development
Technical Assistance Project, which was approved by the Board in May 1993.
40.   Export Promotion and Trade Liberalization. Prior to the initiation of the adjustment
program, Madagascar had an extensive system of export controls, including prior authorization
to export, export price controls, minimum value requirements and trial periods for exporters.
Until end-1987, coffee, vanilla, cloves and pepper, which together accounted for about two-
thirds of total merchandise export earnings, were subject to the export monopoly of the State
Stabilization Fund. In January 1988, the State Stabilization Fund's monopoly of exports of
pepper and cloves was abolished, and in May 1988 coffee producers were also allowed to
negotiate and execute export contracts freely.  With the exception of the foreign exchange
repatriation obligation that still remains in force and the case of vanilla (until most recently still
under control of the State Stabilization Fund), virtually all other export controls have been
eliminated. Export taxes on coffee and vanilla have been eliminated in the 1992 budget.
41.    A program of tariff rationalization was introduced under ITPAC in January 1988, when
specific tariffs were substituted by ad valorem rates; tariff categories were reduced from 69 to
21, with a minimum rate of 5% scaling up to a maximum of 110%. The maximum tariff rate
has been gradually reduced and reached 60% in the 1991 Budget Law, leaving only 12
categories. The surcharge introduced for the previously prohibited products was phased out a
year earlier than originally envisaged, in January 1990. In February 1988 the Government also
eliminated "end-use" taxation applicable to approximately 500 products. PSAC conditionality
included the completion of the four-year program of tariff reform introduced under ITPAC. By
1992, the tariff reform program was practically completed with the reduction of tariff rates to 5,
ranging from 10% to 50% (luxury products). The program was completed in 1993 with the
elimination of the remaining distortions within the tariff structure.
42.    Social Policies.  To address social problems, which originated primarily from the
persistent decline in per capita income, the Government's program focused on the following
priority areas: primary health care, nutrition, protection of homeless children, and employment
generation. Family planning activities and population policies were also to be strengthened to



13
improve the longer-term social and economic prospects. PSAC conditionality was limited to the
preparation of a comprehensive health strategy. In close collaboration with the Bank in August
1989 the Government formulated a strategy for the health sector including priority activities to
be financed by public expenditure. Noteworthy aspects of the strategy are: integrating the
delivery of family planning services into the basic activities of the public health system; the
refocussing of on-going programs onto the major threats represented by malaria, tuberculosis
and leprosy; the redeployment of resources to primary health care activities; and a thorough
reform and rehabilitation of the in-service training and supervision programs. This document
constituted the basis for the Health Sector Improvement Project approved by the Board in May
1991.
43.   An Economic Management and Social Action Support Project (EMSAP) was approved
by the Board in December 1988. Its objectives were: to help Government prepare social
policies and programs and to facilitate the implementation of the adjustment program by
reinforcing institutional capabilities in economic management. It also included a program of
concrete actions in favor of the most vulnerable groups. Subsequently, a Food Security and
Nutrition Project was approved by the Board in March 1993.
Impact of Adjustment
44.    Overall, despite slower than expected progress in "process-oriented' policy areas (i.e.,
budgetary and public enterprise reforms), the cumulative implementation of the package of
sectoral and macroeconomic reforms enacted since 1985 has succeeded in bringing an
unprecedented degree of freedom to the markets and in restoring economic growth after a
prolonged period of uninterrupted decline. In the rice sector, the response to the liberalization
measures taken in late 1986 was practically immediate, with the 1987 season showing a
substantial production increase.  As a result, and despite bad weather in 1988 and 1990,
Madagascar has now significantly reduced its heavy food import dependency. For the economy
as a whole, it was not realistic to expect a supply response much before 1989 because most of
the crucial structural adjustment reforms (price decontrol, exchange regime, external trade,
restructuring of the banking sector, public enterprise and improved allocation of public
expenditures) took place only beginning in 1987.
45.    With regards to foreign exchange and trade liberalization, by 1989, the real effective
exchange rate had fallen to about 40% of its 1982 level. The twelve months between the large
devaluation of June 1987 and the introduction of the OGL import system on July 1, 1988 was a
key transition period to the beginning of recovery. The impact of the devaluation, both on
prices and on domestic demand, was absorbed relatively quickly. In April 1988, inflation began
to decelerate rapidly and economic activity began to recover. Real GDP grew by 3.4% in 1988
and by 4. 1% in 1989. Growth in 1990 continued, yielding the third consecutive year of per
capita GDP increase.
46.   In the area of public enterprise reform, although measurable progress was achieved, the
divestiture process proved more difficult than anticipated initially, in large part because of weak
government commitment. In public finance, significant improvement in the programming and
composition of public expenditure was achieved; however, progress in the reform of the
budgetary system was slower than anticipated. To encourage private investment and export
diversification, a new Investment Code and free-trade zone legislation were promulgated in
December 1989. The response of private investors has been most encouraging. It is estimated



14
that at end 1993 about 10,000 jobs have been created in the free-trade zone, generating about
30 million in additional exports. Finally, social and environmental concerns were integrated
more explicitly in the Government's financial and economic program, and a targeted poverty
alleviation program was launched, supported by the IDA-financed EMSAP.
47.   The political crisis which erupted in mid-1991, however, derailed the adjustment effort.
Output fell by an estimated 6.3%, and inflationary pressures increased. Madagascar's external
position also weakened in 1991.  Notwithstanding important disbursements of balance of
payments support during the first half of the year and a 20% reduction in imports, the country's
poor export performance led to an overall balance of payments deficit which was financed by an
accumulation of external payments arrears and the depletion of reserves. The growing shortage
of foreign exchange during the second half of the year led to the suspension of the OGL system
in October 1991 and its replacement by a rationing mechanism of foreign exchange allocation.
Despite the above economic environment, the private sector - especially export oriented
industries - were better able to weather the political crisis of 1991-92 than other sectors.
48.   The economy remained stagnant in 1992, and fiscal and external accounts did not
improve. GDP rose by only 1%, with agriculture growing by almost 2% and industry declining
by the same amount. Since the last devaluation of the FMG by 11.7% in early 1991, the real
effective exchange rate has appreciated and in December 1992 the parallel market exchange rate
was 20-25% higher than the official rate. Per capita consumption declined by more than 5%.
The trade balance deteriorated further as the dollar value of imports increased by over 7%
compared to a 3% increase in exports, which contributed to a current account deficit of 8.8% of
GDP. On the positive side, the transition government (January 1992 through August 1993),
maintained progress on some reforms (e.g., trade liberalization, elimination of export taxes on
coffee and cloves, establishment of a new pricing and tax mechanism for petroleum products).
Conclusions
49.    Notwithstanding the encouraging results of 1988-1990, the supply response to the
structural reform program has not reached its potential. Traditional export crops and import
substituting industries continued to stagnate. The emergence of new activities in manufacturing
following creation of the EPZ in 1989, non-traditional agricultural exports and tourism-related
services was promising and in many instances impressive; however, since these activities started
from a very low base, they attained a relatively limited level and had, therefore, a limited
impact on the overall economy. The supply response has been constrained in particular by
important physical (infrastructure) bottlenecks, poorly functioning commodity and factor
markets, a heavy debt burden, and adverse terms of trade. The growth in new exports is rapid
and promising, but is not yet large enough to compensate for the sharp decline in the prices of
the country's traditional exports.
50.    Under PSAC, Madagascar consolidated the reforms under previous operations to firmly
put the country on the path to becoming an open market oriented economy. However, a per
capita growth of 0.5% during the period 1988-90 was far from sufficient to reverse the long
term decline in the living conditions of the population. The reforms were not internalized and
were only partially implemented.  The legacy of the 1970s' experiment in socialism  and
dirigisme still lingers and has affected the pace of reform, especially the withdrawal of the state
from commercial and productive activities.



15
51.   Three major lessons can be drawn from the adjustment experience. First, the piecemeal
approach followed in the past, characterized by incomplete reform measures which were not
implemented effectively enough, failed to generate a strong supply response. It is important to
reach a consensus on an ambitious growth vision and then to act in a way that is consistent with
that vision. Second, it is essential to push aggressively on a select number of key economic
levels to truly spring the economy forward. The preoccupation with detailed processes and the
existence of too many non-essential conditions obscured the strategic vision which was needed
to create and maintain the momentum for reform. 7hird, the authorities did not explain the
benefits of adjustment to the population; they only underlined its costs. While projects aimed at
reducing proverty were designed to accompany the adjustment program, there was no attempt
made by the authorities to explain how it was addressing poverty issues. In order to encourage
popular participation and acceptance, the government's economic program needs to be broadly
disseminated, explained, and discussed.



16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(In March 1994 the Borrower was requested to review Parts I and III and to prepare Part II.
The new Government, however, which was put in place in August 1993 following a two-year
political transition, declined to complete Part II. The authorities said that the implementation of
the PSAC was the responsibility of the previous r6gime and as such they did not feel competent
to comment on it.)



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Credits 1941-MAG, and 1941-1, 1941-2,
1941-3, 1941-4. 1941-5)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose                                        f Month/Year of      Status
I_Approval
Industry and Trade Policy    To support policy reforms designed to increase   June 1987          Closed
Adjustment Credit            competition through liberalization of the inter-                    March 31, 1991
(Cr. 1834-MAG)               national and domestic trade, thus fostering a
market-based resource allocation system.
Economic Management and      To support Government's efforts to improve       December 1988      Ongoing
Social Action Project        public sector management, to address the plight of
(Cr. 1967-MAG)               the more disadvantaged groups and to strengthen
Government's capacity to monitor and address
social issues, policies and programs systematically
within its overall economic public expend.prograrn.



18
Table 2: Credit Data
Amounts (million)
(as of November 30, 1993)
Original    Disbursed    Cancelled     Repaid     Outstanding
IDA 1941-MAG (SDR)                   90.50         57.50         33.00       0.00           57.50
IDA 1941-1-MAG(SDR)                   1.10          1.10          0.00       0.00            1.10
IDA 1941-2-MAG (SDR)                  0.90          0.90         0.00        0.00            0.90
IDA 1941-3-MAG(SDR)                   1.20          1.20          0.00       0.00            1.20
IDA 1941-4-MAG (SDR)                  1.00          1.00          0.00       0.00            1.00
IDA 1941-5-MAG (SDR)                  0.99          0.99         0.00        0.00            0.99
Sub-total (SDR)                      95.69         62.69         33.00       0.00           62.69
Swiss grant (SwF)                    10.00         10.00          0.00       0.00            0.00
ADF (UA)                             30.00          n.a.          na.         n.a.            n.a.
Norwegian grant (NKr)                20.00          n.a.          n.a.        n.a.            n.a.
Table 3: Credit Timetable: Original and Actual Dates
Original/Planned Credit Dates    Revised/Actual Dates
Preparation Mission                                                    October 20, 1987
Initiating Memorandum                                                  January 15, 1988
Appraisal                                January 31, 1988              January 31, 1988
Negotiations                             April 1988                    May 2, 1988
Letter of Development Policy                                      -    May 1988
Board Approval                           June 1988                     June 29, 1988
Signing of Credit Agreement                                            July 18, 1988
Effectiveness                            August 1988                   December 16, 1988
Effectiveness of 1941-1 (lst IDA reflow)  -                            August 25, 1989
Effectiveness of 1941-2 (2nd IDA reflow)  -                            July 23, 1990
Second tranche release                   May 1989                      March 1991
Third tranche release                    December 1989                 Cancelled
Effectiveness of 1941-3 (3rd IDA reflow)  -                            May 29, 1991
Effectiveness of 1941-4 (4th IDA reflow)  -                            November 30, 1992
Effectiveness of 1941-5 (5th IDA reflow)  -                            July 15, 1993
Closing Date                             December 31, 1990             September 30, 1993



19
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements
Amount (million)
FY89    FY90    FY91        FY92    FY93    FY94
IDA 194 1-MAG (SDR)       Planned       50.60    39.90
Actual       22.40    2.35     31.82     0.17     0.61      0.16
IDA 1941-1-MAG(SDR)    Actual           -        1.10     -         -        -        -
IDA 1941-2-MAG (SDR)    Actual          -        -        0.90      -
IDA 1941-3-MAG(SDR)    Actual           -        -        -         1.20     -
IDA 19414-MAG(SDR)    Actual                -        -              -        1.00     -
IDA 1941-5-MAG (SDR)    Actual          -        -        -         -        -        0.99
Total (SDR)               Actual        22.40    3.45     32.72     1.37     1.61      1.15
Swiss Grant (SwF)         Actual        1.94     8.06
ADF (UA)                                n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Norwegian grant (NKr)                   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.



20
Table 5: Use of Bank Resources
A. Bank Staff Inputs
FY     FY      FY      FY      FY      FY     FY      FY      FY
86     87      88      89      90      91     92      93      94     Total
Identif./Preparation             3.7   12.8                                                            16.5
Appraisal                                      103.5                                                  103.5
Negotiations                                    36.4                                                   36.4
Supervision                                             59.9   40.1   28.1   28.8   43.9              200.8
Project Completion Report                                                                     10.0     10.0
Total                            3.7    12.8 - 139.9  59.9   40.1   28.1   28.8     43.9   10.0    367.2
B. Mission Data
Project Stage         MonthtYear         # wks  _# persons   SWs             Report date         Rating
Preparation           October 1987          3          9         18    December 2, 1987
Appraisal             January 1988          3          6         15    February 26, 1988
Supervision           October 1988         3           8         15    December 14, 1988
February 1989        4          6          16    March 17, 1989
June 1989            3          4          10    July 11, 1989
October 1989         3          7          18    November21, 1989
December 1989        2          2          4     December 22, 1989
March 1990           1           1         1     April 3, 1990
April 1991            1          2         2     May 7, 1991
January 1992         2          2          4     February 4, 1991
March 1992           3          6          8     May 17,1992
June 1992            3           1         2     July 14, 1992
August 1992          2          4          2     September 18, 1992
September 1992       2          6          8     September 18, 1992
December 1992        3          2          4     January 7, 1993
Completion            August 1993           3          7         4      August 30, 1993



21
MADACASCAR, XEY INDICATORS
3N3941507
1915     19iC      1917      1911       1919       1990        1991       1992       1993
Real g      lM:
OGmDmm.cPrudat (GDP)                       LI        2.0       L2        3.4        4.1        3.1        4I         LO         2.1
Qms Da_mte Imr (GDY)                      0.3       3.5      -0.3      2.6        3.1         0.2       -.7         0.7        3.6
Real p9f cai pwh raw-
Ctor Dmamc Podurt                          .1.5     -1.1      *1.9       0.2        0.3       -0.1        -9.6       -I.       -0.6
TotaL    l a                                1.7     -7.6      -3.6      -4.4       -1.7         1.3       -4.1      -5.6        1.0
pliva  casmapa                              1.6      4.0      -4.3      -4.1       -2.1         2.1       -3.6       -5.9       2.1
Dedt and Debt Smim (LT+fMF+S):
Total DOD (US  inl)                     2,472.2   2,925.6   3,945.2   3,9960    3,423.3    3,651.5    3,715.3    3,31L4    3979.5
DOD /GDP                                   33.0    102.2    177.5    177.5         131.0      116.3      13.3       1307       119.6
Debt  _A  (USS mil) 1/                    155.      296.0     313.6    330.6       206.1      464.6      10.9       111.0       39
DebO sw.c/Expon                            43.4      72.6      71.7      79.7       42.9       3I1        34.7       22.0       17.7
Debt swwA / GDP                             5.5       9.1      12.2      13.5       U3         15.1        6.4        3.7        2.6
latl b.vdm (LT+W+fST):
InWpaid (USSmil)                           73.1      73.6    110.3       76.7      110.4      173.3       49.7       53.3       27.7
etW /Exetw                                 20.4      19.3      25.3      18.5       23.0       32.9        10.2      10.7        5.6
Ileng/IGDP                                  2.6       2.4       4.3       3.1        4.4        5.6         1.9       1.3        0.3
G(3mgUIr4mz / GDP                             *.5       9.0      10.1      13.3       13.4       17.0         L2       11.3       12.3
ICOR(5ya aWirgy- shwn)                       11.4       6.1       4.7       4.1        3.9       13.3        14.2      19.4       26.1
Domadc Sa*  / GDP                             1.3       6.9       5.9       3.4       10.0        6.0        -0.5       2.3        3.6
BOP Ruoum Balance I GDP                       -7.7     -2.3      -5.2     .4.1        -4.0      -10.7        -7.3      -7.3       4.6
Nadonl SSViQPW/ GDP                          -1.9       3.5       1.2       3.7        5.3        5.6        40.5       3.7        5.2
BOP Curnt Account Balance / GDP              -10.3     -4.3     -10.0    -10.3        4.7       -13.4       -9.9        4.3       4.3
M-   al Domc SaWmg Raw                      -115.6    663.9      94.7    117.4        57.7      991.3       93.3      30.1        25.2
Mumn  Nalonl Savip Raw                      -33.6    633.S      207.3    137.1        53.7      -665        33.5      995.5       45.2
Govatnrnmt ia'.a _  /GDP                      6.0       5.4       7.0       6.9        9.7        7.9        5.9        7.6        3.1
Govemen Savinp I GDP                         40.4      -0.9      40.2      -1.4       -3.1    -  0.0        -4.2       -4.3       -2.6
Privae lir_Z / GDP                            2.6       3.6       3.1       6.4        3.7        6.9        4.6        3.7        4.3
Prvae Saviop / GDP                           -1.5       4.4       1.4       5.1        1.4        5.6        3.7        3.0        7.3
Govenunew ,anu  / GDP                        13.3      12.7      15.3      13.3       12.7       13.3        9.3       10.9       10.3
Govnment e     _/enditag   GDP               20.3      20.0      23.9      24.1       25.5       21.2       20.1       23.5       21.6
O0a Budpt deficit / GDP 2V                   -7.5      -7.3      4.6      *10.3      -12.6       -7.3      -10.6      .12.4      -11.0
Prmmnry defic I GDP                           -3.6     -2.9      *2.7      -3.2       -5.1       -2.1       -4.9       *5.6       -6.4
Cotmaw Prisen gpww  mb  3/                    9.6      16.2      27.2      24.4       12.3       15.4        14.9      13.2        9.5
GDP Dfao growt rae                           10.5      14.2      23.0      21.2       12.0       11.4        14.4      12.6       12.6
Real Exelp Rat Inde (197-100)               1439      141.2    100.0       35.3       34.9       96.1       n7.5       92.3      100.7
Ter. ofTmdu Indi (1937-100)                 112.1     U32.6    100.0       95.6       31.2       74.5       73.7       69.2       66.3
ExporsGNFSvolum uow*raw  41                  -3.2       0.0       2.9      4.2        16.9       12.0        4.3        2.0       -61
Epr GNFS / GDP                               11.6      12.0      16.5      16.3       11.0       15.9        17.3      16.7       15.5
Imporm GNFS, vohes puw  raw  41               9.5    -20.9        0.3      -9.6        0.9       33.0       -14.9       0.6        3.0
Import GNFS / GDP                            13.9      14.1      20.7      21.2       21.4       269        26.2       25.2       24.2
BOP Cumnt Accopm Balance (USS mal) 51      -310.0   -204.6 *256.6   -264.2    -2163            -411.7     .264.6    -261.3    -293.9
Net mave (USS ml)                          -135.S     48.7      -53.2      33.4       300       -55.5       -41.6     -133         3.1
Gro ruas(ma  o   ofioyjt)                     0.3       2.1       3.0       3.6        3.9        1.0         .2        1.2        1.3
I/ ArU    mvte paid ai   aucbsdi
2V Sidig interm   medag ap11. 
3Y Prvae c oam    ddate (adald coimtm.
4N Natial
5/ E=huMg offira grAL



22
MADAGASCAR. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Part A. Currmt Price Data
(in billions of local currency units)
PercapitaGNP- USS 210 (1991)
Population: 12.032 million (1991)
3/3/94 15:07
--                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EsL
1925     1986     1987      1988      1989       1990       1991      1992     -199T
Gross Domestic Product                  1.8932   2,203.S   Z743.2   3,436.3    4,005.3    4,601.5   4,906.4   5,579.6   6,416.6
Net Ifdirect Txe                        206.7    220.7    349.5    389.0       360.7      403.6     340.9      410.7     430.7
GDP at Factor C4st                      1,686.5  1,983.1  2,393.7   3,047.8    3,644.6    4,197.9   4,565.5   5,168.9   5,985.9
Imports (GNFS) 1/                       352.3    310.1    567.7    728.8       S57.6    1,235.6   1,285.4   1,405.1   1,550.8
Expozi (GNFS) 1/                        220.5    263.4    453.0    559.2       720.9      730.2     246.4      929.9     992.5
Resourcc Balance                         -137.8    -46.7   -114.7   -169.0    -136.7    -505.4    -439.0    '475.2    -558.3
Total Expenditures                      2,031.0  2,250.5  2,857.9   3,605.8    4,142.0    5,106.9   5,345.4   6,054.8   6,974.9
Total Consumption:                      1,8692   2,051.3  2,580.7  3,148.9    3,605.7   4,325.5    4,943.9   5,423.0   6,182.7
Government                              124.8    194.9    250.5    279.6       350.9     367.3      422.0     463.4     481.7
Private                               1,624.4  1,856.4  2,3302   2,869.3    3,254.8    3,9582    4,521.9   4,959.6   5,701.0
Gross Domestic Investment                 161.8    199.2    2772      456.9      536.3     721.4      401.5     631.8     7922
G.D.Fuxed Invement                      161.2    199.2    277.2    456.9       536.3      682.2     518.9      631.2     792.2
Government 2/                         112.9    119.5    191.6    237.3       382.1      365.2     291.6      423.9     518.9
Private                                48.9     79.7      85.6    219.6      1482       317.0     227.3     207.9      273.3
Changes in Stocks                         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       992      -117.4       0.0       0.0
Memorandum Itcrs:
Gross Domestic Savinp                      24.0    152.5    162.5    287.9       399.6     276.0      -37.5     156.6     233.9
Net Factor Income                       -25.3   -104.6   -1S6.6   -251.9    -302.3    -238.4    -248.3    -256.5    -234.S
NetCurrentTransfen                      25.2      22.6     55.9      90.2     114.9      219.5      263.6     305.1     336.9
National Savinp                           -36.1     76.6     31.8    126.2       212.2     257.2      -222      205.2     336.0
1/ National AccountL
2/ Including Public Enterprises Investment.
Part B: Constant Price Data
(in billions of local currency units, 1987'100)
EA
1985     1986     1987      19BS      1989       1990       1991      1992       IW3
Gross Domestic Product                  2,652A   2,710.4  2,7432   2,835.9    2,951.7    3,044.4   2,237.6   2,266.3   2.91 2
Imports (GNFS) 1/                         715.5    566.0    567.7    513.1       517.6     628.6      526.3     589.9     60 7 6
Exports (GNFS) 1/                         440.6    440.4    453.0    415.7      486.0      544.2      570.1     581.3     5460
Resource Balance                         -274.9   -125.6   -114.7    -97.4       -31.5    -144.4      -16.2      -8.6     461 6
Total Expenditures                      2,951.1  2,833.1   Z857.9  2,917.5    2,972-2   3,176.9   2,906.8   2,907.3   3.025 7
Total Consumption:                      2,725.4  2,595.4  2,580.7  2,546.4    2,583.3    2,700.9   2,669.1   2,593.4   2.691 1
Government                              2352    233.2    250.5    239.9        253.5     246.6      229.6     230.5     21114
Private                               2,490.2  2,361.6  2,3302   2,306.5    2,329.8    2,454.3   2,439.6   2,362.9   2.479 7
Total Investment                          225.7    237.7    2772      371.1      388.8     475.9      237.6     313.9     334 5
Government                                 ..       ..       ..        ..     281.4      232.6      156.2     210.6     '39 7
Private                                 225.7    237.7    2772      371.1      107.4     243.3       80.8     103.3      94 I
Terms ofTrade (mT) adjustment              -0.2     40.4      0.0    -21.6       -51.0    -1372      -184.0    -190.9    *157 2
Gross Domestic Income                   2,658.1  2,750.2  2,7432   2.814.4    2,900.7    2,9072    2,653.6   2,675.9   2.-I 1
Domestic Savings (Tr Adjusted)            -67.3    155.3    162.5    262.0       317.4     206.3      -15.5      22.5      '9 9
1/ Goods and nonflactor savices (National Accounts).



23
MADAGASCAR NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Part C: Viii Added by Sector
(% of GDP at factor cost)
3/3/94 15:07
ESL
1985      1986     1987      1988       1989        1990      1991       1992       1993
Agriculturw                                  35.1      36.8      36.2     33.5        32.9       32.3       33.0      33.4       33.1
Indusry                                      13.3      12.9      13.7     13.2        14.8       14.2       14.0      13.6       14.1
-of which: Mining                           0.3       0.3       0.3       0.5        0.4        0.4        0.3        0.3       0.3
Savices 1/                                   51.5      50.3      50.1     533         52.3       53.5       52.9      53.0       52.8
TOTAL                                       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Historical and projectod sharcs ar calculated from current price datia
1/ Officisl Malagasy national accounts include constuction in savices
Part D: Log-Term Growth Rates
(average annual growth rat fiom costant pice data)
EsL
1973-80    1980-92      1993
Gross Domestic Product                                                                 1.4       -0.1        2.1
Agricultue                                                                          0.7        2.0        3.3
Industry                                                                            1.9        -1.5       8.1
-of which: Mining                                                                   ..         ..        0.7
Services                                                                            1.6        -0.6       22
Exports of GNFS                                                                        2.5       -1.8       -6.1
Imports of GNFS                                                                        2.2       -6.5        3.0
Total Expenditures                                                                     1.5       -1.5        4.1
Total Consumption                                                                      12        -1.5        3.8
Govemment                                                                            3.9       -0.4       -8.3
Private                                                                              1.0       -1.6        4.9
Gross Domestic Investmcnt                                                             42         -1.5        6.6
Government                                                                            ..         ..       13.8
Pivate                                                                                ..         ..       -.2
Capacity to import                                                                    -5.1       -3.4       -0.4
Gross Domcstic Income                                                                 -0.5       -0.3        3.6
Gross National Income                                                                 -0.4       -0.6        4.6
Gross National Product                                                                 1.6       -0.4        3.0
Gross Domestic Savings                                                                  ..      -56.6      -13.3
Gross National Savings                                                                  ..       20.5       -5.2
Population                                                                             2.7        3.0        2.8
Labor Force                                                                            22         2.1        2.6
GDP per capita                                                                        -12        -3.0       -0.6



24
MADAGASCAR, NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Pat E: Anual Grow* Rate
(avra  a--al gowt zi aa km consant price dat)
3/3i94 15:07
-195      19S6     19S7      1981       1989       1990        1991      1992        1993
Grs Domestic Product(1917-100)                1.1       2.0      1.2       3.4        4.1         3.1       -6.1        1.0       2.1
AgUiaulat                                  1.1       3.2       2.5       2.2        5.2        2.1        0.5        1.7       3.3
Indusy                                     2.8       3.7       4.3       1.5        1.2       -1.0       -1.0       .2.0       3.1
Sa vices                                   0.7       0.7      -0.6       4.7        4.0        4.0       -7.1        1.1       2.2
Grs Domestc IDcm                              0.3       3.5     -0.3       2.6        3.1         0.2       -S.7        0.3       3.6
Gos Domes&c wneslment                         1.3       5.3      16.6     33.9         4.1       22.4      -50.1       32.1       6.6
Total Co,nin   l                              4.7      -4.1     -0.6       -1.3        1.5        4.6       -1.2       -2.S       3.1
Populato                                      3.0       3.1       3.2      3.2         3.2        3.2        3.1        2.9       2.1
Per Canita Growth Rzs:
Gros Dometic Product                         -1.3      -1.1     -1.9       0.2         0.3       -0.1       -9.6      .1.S       -0.6
Towl Caompticm                                1.7      -7.6      -3.6     -4.4        -1.7        1.3       .4.1       .5.6       1.0
Privaa Coaumptioa                             1.6      -1.0     -4.3      -4.1        -2.1        2.1       -3.6       -5.9       2.1
Part F: Price Indlces
(Nioial Accomub Deflsoa 1937-100)
1935      1916     1987      1913       1999       1990        1991      1992        1993
Gross Domesic Product                        71.2      11.3    100.0    121.2        135.7      151.1      172.9      194.6     219.1
Import (GNFS)                                50.1      54.1    100.0    142.0        165.7      179.4      219.3      231.2     255 2
Export(GNFS)                                 50.1      59.1    100.0      134.7      141.3      134.2      143.5      160.0     131.3
Total Expenditurs                            63.1      79.4    100.0      123.6      139.4      160.1      113.9      201.3     230 5
Consumption                                  61.6      79.0    100.0      123.7      139.6      160.1      115.2      209.1     229 7
Invesnment                                   71.7      83.8    100.0    123.1        137.9      164.2      169.0      201.2     236 3
Agiculbre                                    72.4      16.4    100.0    115.3        123.9      142.3      157.9      177.1     197 5
Indus*y                                      74.4      81.5    100.0      120.2      159.4      171.4      193.5      216.4     20' 
Services                                     72.5      12.7    100.0    129.5        145.9      165.1      191.4      214.6     242. 3
Part G: Oter Economic Indkators
1980-93                            1973      1930
Imnu Elasdcitv
hinport (GNFS)                                                                     .0.4         ..         ..       -0.6       .1 2
Marmin  Savinf Rates (Me
Grou Domestic Savings
Gross Naional Savin.s
ICOR (palod averags)                                                                  4.7          ..         ..       .3.3      17 7
Labor Foce (Y.)
Agriculra.
Tndusny                                                                              ..
Sevices
ToWl                                                                             100.0          ..         ..      100.0     100 0



25
MADAGASCAR. EXrERNAL TRADE
A. Volumw, Value, an Pri
3/3/94 15:07
~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Esi
1985     1986      1987     1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS:
(volume index 1987-100)
Coffee                                   94.2      99.3    100.0      90.8      129.9     100.8      85.9      105.0     105.4
Cloves                                  383.1    338.2    100.0    173.4       546.5      339.5     434.6      353.8     299.0
Vanila                                   48.5      53.2    100.0      47.8      46.2       63.9      49.5       53.9      242
Other Exports                            93.6      82.5    100.0    107.4       123.0     133.2     162.8      147.7     147.7
Merchandise Expor (FOB)                  92.5      87.1    100.0      88.8      117.1     111.6      118.8     116.6     107.0
(Value - Curr. mill S)
Coffee                                  102.9    139.3      92.7      73.7      76.8       38.6      28.1       31.6      37.1
Cloves                                   35.2      27.5     10.0      15.5      32.2       20.0      23.1        9.0       5.0
Vanilla                                  43.6      47.8     88.8      43.6      42.1       57.1      46.6       51.2      23.0
Other Exports                           109.4    108.2    137.6    146.9       170.2      202.9     240.3      235.9     224.2
Merchandise Exports (FOB)               291.2    322.9    329.0    279.7       321.3      318.6     338.0      327.7     289.4
MERCHANDISE IMPORTS:
(Vol. Index 1987-100)
Food                                    101.6    133.9    100.0       32.9      80.4       90.5      59.5       92.8      81.4
Other Consumer Goods                    128.4    108.6    100.0       99.7      105.8     165.6     111.6      133.8     127 5
POL and Other Energy                    101.0    134.9    100.0    148.7        66.2      147.4      110.5     109.8     116 5
Intarmediad  Goods                      162.8      76.3    100.0      70.4      77.5      122.5      103.6     110.6     127 3
Primaly                               139.3      97.3    100.0      84.6      84.9      125.2      77.3       80.8      92 3
Manufaures                            2152       29.5    100.0      38.6      61.1      116.5      162.2     177.0     204 0
Caital Goods                            126.8    102.8    100.0    121.5        112.1     158.3      135.1      99.4     107 5
Tota Merch. Imports (CIF)               133.3    102.3    100.0       92.7       88.6     136.3      107.8     108.4     115 1
(Value - Curr. mill. S)
Food                                     49.6      52.0     51.8      17.2      38.2       48.8      35.2       58.2      51 5
Other Consumer Goods                     51.3      51.2     52.5      55.5      58.5       99.7      69.8       88.7     U. 0
POL and Other Energy                     84.7      58.3     55.4      65.7      35.5      113.5      71.2       72.1      '6 1
[ntamediate Goods                       182.0    100.5    147.3    109.9       120.0      200.7     176.2      199.5     :_Is1
Primary                               107.4      88.5    101.6      91.2      90.7      141.6      90.7      100.5     114 S
Manufactures                           74.6      12.0     45.6      18.7      293        59.1      85.5       99.0     1 i 3 4
Capital Goods                            97.9      93.8    102.0    131.3      119.9      186.4     165.3      128.9     :313 
Total Merch. Imports (CIF)              465.4    355.7    409.0    379.7       372.0      649.0     517.7      547.3     5'S 1
COUNTRY INDICES ( 1987-100):
Mrchandise Export Price                  95.7    112.8    100.0       95.7      83.4       86.8      86.5       85 4      3:
Merchandise Import Price                 85.4      85.0    100.0    100.1      102.6      116.4     117.4      123.4     .'' 9
Merch. Terms of Trade                   112.1    132.6    100.0       95.6       81.2      74.5      73.7       692       06 I



26
IUDACASCALM EXTRNAL TRLAD
Mm=. of Tebi ae Cwoutb Rati
dTobl~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Mu Id    Rd
RAf (f    cnma Pn)
Ea                                     ACO            Em
1985     1936      1937      19U        1993                                   1980-1992       1993
3N94 15:07
Coffee                                     35.3      43.2     23.2      263        12.S                                       -2.0        0.4
caaqs                                      12.1       L5       3.0       5.5        L7                                         15.7     -15.5
Va;n                                       15.0      14.1     21.0      15.6        7.9                                         3.5     -SS.1
Odw E Ipa                                  37.6      33.5     41.3      5.5        77.5                                          -        0.0
Tol Mach. ExpRm  (fob)                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0                                         2.6       4.2
Food                                      10.6      14.6      12.7       4.5       9.0                                          3        56.0
OtberCo       Goob                        11.0      14.4      12.1      14.6      14.5                                        .3.9       19.9
POL md Oar Enwv                           13.2      16.4      13.5      17.3       U.2                                         2.9       -0.7
batm          Goods n.i:                  39.1      22.3      36.0      29.0      39.4                                        4.4         6.1
PtNy Goods                              23.1      24.9     243       24.0       19.3                                         ..        4.5
MnufacumdGaoods                         16.0      3.4      11.2       4.9       19.6                                          _        9.1
CAI*  Goos                                21.0      26.4      24.9      34.6      24.0                                        .64       -26.5
Toaw Mech. Inqmp                         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0                                        -69         0.5
C: Tr.d  he Nm FJaw Swvia
1985     1936      1917      1912       1939       1990       1991       1992       1993
Vobm Indiam (197-100)
Export of Namfctor sams                     73.0      31.7    100.0    105.0       120.9      171.7      126.9      132.7      151.5
Impol of NonfN&ttor                         97.3      92.3    100.0      90.7       9M1       1063        90.3       903       100.9
USI3 Puc In&= 19t7-31001
Eoa of Nmfiw   mmomm                        713       95.3    100.0    117.6       114.1      117.2      120.6      134.3      136.5
hap"iw otfNoofacorvw                        733       95.1    100.0    117.6       114.1      117.2      120.6      134.3      1365



27
MADAGASCAL' BALANCE 0  PAY1O4T
(US  S gam jZ)
3/394 1507
Ba
1985      1986     1917      1913       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
A. Exporm of G(3S                          3517      407.5    437.7    414.6       4800        m2.5      489.0      504.8      490.4
A. Expow of GNFS 11                        349.7    391.0    425.0    39Z1         453.6       512.6      484.S     499.3      487.7
1. Mad cdia (FOB)                        291.2    322.9    329.0    279.7        321.3      313.6      33L0       327.7      2S9.4
2. Noa-fiacnr Saer                        5Z6       75.1     95.9    Ill4        132.3      194.0      146.1      171.5      191.4
B.  a1 oGNFS                               56.0    490.3    559.4    547.4          552W      241.7       609       732.3      775.3
1. Me eCbAm&  (FOB)                      401.5    294.9    339.6    313.0        306.9      5664       440.1      465.2     47.6
2. Notaetor Swic                         167.5     195.4    219.3    234.4       246.0      275.3      240.1      267.6      302.7
C. Rneouma Balance                        -219.3      -92.3   -134.4   .149.3       -99.4    -329.1    -196.0    -233.5    -227.6
D. Ndt FacltO  nco                         -12L7    -154.6   -174.5   .179.0    -121.6        -159.6    -135.3    -137.3    -121.1
1. Fado Raccip                             4.4       5.3      9.3      13.3       123        14.9        4.1        5.5        17
2. Factor PaMm                           133.1     159.9    11s1      192.3      206.9      174.5      139.4      142.1      124.5
a) Total IDN                         73.0      161.7    140.9    173.7       166.4      173.1      137.5      141.5     121.7
b) Oth  Facto Paymn_                 60.1       -1.1     42.9      116        40.5        0.7        L9         1.3       2.1
E. Nt Cugrmt Trmnf                          3Z0       42.3      52.2      64.1       71.7       76.9       66.3      109.0     115.5
1. Cwms R ip                             32.6       36.3      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
a) Wodk. zv _m                         4.6       4.2       3.4      3.2         1I        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
b) Oterw  r.    n                     34.0      32.0      -3.4     -3.2      -4.1         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
2. Ctrax Pay_                             14.4      15.7      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
F. OamI AccoCM Balam
1. BEfo  o54al cpWl                     -310.0   -204.6   -2566    -264.2    -216.3        -411.7    -264.6    .261.1    -293.9
2. OfficiaL  pa al  2V                    60.3     109.1    101.9    124.9       131.4      160.6      112.6      125.9      139.7
3. AAw offcia capitl gpn                -249.7    -94.8   -154.7   -139.4        -4.9    -251.1    -152.0    .135.9    -154.2
G. LoaTuM Caital Iname                       -3.7     36.4      20.9      -2.1      -19.5      -37.2    -148.9       -71.3     -84.2
1. Ditct IAmwmet                            ..        ..       ..        ..       12.1       22.4       13.7       21.1       23.1
2. Nde LT Bctmwig                        117.7      28.9    134.2      35.7       -7.6      -59.6    -1626        -99        102.0
a) Dibumam                            164.3     192.7    295.9    243.3       243.2      151.1       41.1      112.7      131.0
b) Repayw-mn                           46.6     163.1    161.7    207.6       250.2      210.7      203.7      205.6      239.0
3. Odw L-T Infl,TI                      -121.4       7.5   -1133      -32.5      -24.7        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
It Toal Other Im                           237.0    124.6    202.6    211.5         137.5      151.0      313.0     224.7      262.2
1. Ned S-T Capital. n..j                  91.6     149.7    131.6    263.1       195.2      -27.4      252.6      220.1      262.2
A) Intere m                             0.0      33.0      30.0     97.0       56.0        0.0       17.1       37.1       94.0
b) Other net S-T cl                       ..       ..        ..       ..         ..      -27.4      164.9      133.0      161.2
2. Capital Flob, n.eL                    137.9    -35.9      64.0    -51.5       .57.6      171.4       65.4        3.9        0.0
3. Ero A O     _m                          7.5      10.3      0.0      4;1         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
L Chuagm Net R.um                           16.3    -662       -.1    -69.3        -33.2       137.3      -17.1     -17.0      -23.3
1. Net Creai From  WF                     -3.5       4.0      1.5    -29.2       -16.3      .29.7      -16.7      -16.2     -14.1
2. Raear  Cm                              19.2    -70.1    -77.6    -40.2        -16.9      167.0       -.4        -0.1       -9.7
3.         E Esro                                     _         .         .          .u                   .          ..
V/ Good and nofacor auvi99.
2/ 1nchmdNg official cwromWw betw 199.



28
MADA.GA8CARM DALACZr 0?r PAYMbaaS
(USI mam  a         Priam)
3f1/94 15:07
EAL
1985     1936       1937     1933       1939       1990        1991       1992        1991
L As sh   of CDP (CW.USS)
1. R_m*. Balme.                           -7.7      -2.2      -5.2       il        -4.0      -10.7       -73         -7.3       4.6
2. 1 1aaP Puins.                           2.6       5.0       5.5       7.1        6.7        5.6        5.1        4.7        3.7
3. Ogr. Aec. Balm                        -10.3      43       -10.0    .10.3         1.7      -13.4       -9.9        4.3        41
4. L-T Ca  InMm                           -0.1       LI        0.3       41       4-          -L2         -5.6      -2.4        -2.5
S. Not Crdi ftam  w DAF                   41          .1       03       -L2        47         -LO        46          45         44
1C Fmup RhmR R_nw
L.   lawmR (incl& pd)                     48.4     114.5    125.2    ml3.7        25.3        U.1        35.2       n7.7       96.9
2. Gaid (dyr, L*-a                                _- *-
3. Or. Rl. (arM ph)                       41.4     114.5     135.2     m.7        2453        31         U5.2       37.7       96.9
4Q.0l RC.m  ofkm           )               0.3       2.1       3.0       16         3.9        LO          L2         1.2        L3
L    Pwinp       C (LU / US)
l.Nlmd Offic dEmp Rlaf
a) mu raou                           6L5      676.3   1,069.2   1,407.1    1,603.4     L494.1    1,335.4      U67.9    1,923.0
b)  oa.d r                            35.3     769.3   1,234.3   1,52I64    1,532.5    L465.6    1,332.7      L910.2    1,925.6
2 kAj(19 87100)
a) UUV (WB  k)                        77.2      91.1     100.0     1073       106.5      112.6      115.1      120.0      120.6
b)  la Rl xch    Ri                  141.9     141.2    100.0       35.3        49        96.1       37.5       92.3      100.7
3. X-Rlw for GNP Cowaiie                 662.5     6763   1,069.2   1,407.1    1,603.4    1,494.1    1,35.4    1,367.9    1,9280
hL Mmml D
GDP (azr.a USS wM) (aw                 2,357.S   3,25S.4   Z565.6   2,442.5    2,497.9    3,079.3    2,673.2    2937.1    3,322.1
GDP(uUSs UOMS) (go)                    2,977.7   2,3623   Z=S   2,2515    X613.5    3,139.7    2,677.2    2,921.0    3,327.1



29
MADACASC-CL GOVWRGiDZT BUDczr
(a bEn atd wninq          )
3/3#9415:19
I945     I9        1937      1933      1939       1990       1991      1992        199S
Dh  TAM                                   33.1     39.1      44.2      5L4       46.4       0.7        64.5       72L 
1ikr  TMU                                2066     220.7    340.6    377.4       36.7       403.6      2966       455.0     435.
Nanam R  uipz                             12.0     20.6      353       44.7     100.6      137.7       94.S       31.2     14L5
TOTAL Carm Rn _ae                         251.7    2204       420.7    473.5      507.7      611.0      455.9     6033       6aLs
In  on Ex       1/                       60.2      59       1527      23L5      27L1       239.9      231.1     2660       220
1nsaz   D an Damgc                         5.4      La        9.7      11.0      20.2       22.0       43.7      114.5      726
Od  CurC Tras                             20.0     29.1      37.5      39.S      537        6.7        70.        50.1      60.
Subd                                       0.0          .                 ..                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
CAipda                                   165.1    174.1    227.5    239.2       2760       227        310.1      414.3     470.
TOTAL CO lE   xNpIS                       259.7    30L1       427.4    5215       63.0       6113       6L5       347.4      324.4
Budeay Savip                                -L0     -20.7       67      4.0    -1253          .03      -205.6    -239.1    -163.6
CapRami_                                   0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        L9         .2       11.6       10.6      224
CViul Trmu                                31.0      353      51.5      CL7       t0.S       53.0       73.5       93.9      9Q1
3uduy liv                                103.2    105.1    177.2    237.2       307.2      312.2      251.9      3634      4743
TOTAL Cqpi&dl Ezp&                         134.2    140.4    2293      305.9      33.0       365.2      325.4     4623       564
TOTAL         Fimm                        142.2    161.1    236.0    353.9        5044       359.3      519.4      60.3      705.6
2zkmg CqiuiGina                          213      20.9      37.7      66        10.1       35.4       65.6      137        155.2
RoundBalDrnr   I/                       110.2    130.2    2062       2313      2136        9.9       3479       153.1      112.6
Mo y Sym C              2/                5.5      2.5    -11.0       52        133.4     132.4    -144.9        95.S      149.0
Odir Dcmn. Bwsimg                         4.6      7.5       3.1       1.7      493         -7.5     250.3      3032      22L3
P-.y De"l -47.6                                      43.2    .73.6   -111.4    -2061         47.4    -2336        -3103     -412.1
11 Inch   dinh vaak ans  s roinaft  aP-enI.
2/ T-cbag   fin chgof dsW =icauwI         w han asiumabmAag  w'



30
MbADAGAICAR MONE AND C2=rr
(a balm a heal eneYmy ')
3d394 15:19
1915     1936      1917     19U        1939       1990      1991       1992       1993
A- Afm Flosn
Not ate cal Rgemm                          10.l3    -44.7    -73.       -97.6     -53.2      205.1     -3L4        -3LI      .460
NA D sc CMt                                77.4      76.5      65.1     -2.3       30.9      110.1      153.6     1917       147.7
To Go_huma Btdg  I/                      19.0     19.7    -12.0      -.3       -30.2      *61.0       37.4      135.3       U0
To Odr Ocak1niu                           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
To Pvaa. So"                             534      56        77.1      2.o       611       171.1       96.2       63.4     147.7
ToUl AneW &    1                           3L2       31.S      -L5      -99.9     -223       3152       122.2     166.9      10L7
Money -d QOa qy (M2)                     4a5        6.7     79.1    1065        1339        2.4      209.C      201.3     458.0
Net Oteha Lb0irn                         47.7    -54.9     47.6   -2064        -211.2     312.3       47.4      -34.5    -35C2
B. End-of-Yow Stock.
Not haadovA Rua',m                        -463      -613       C5.7      5LO      122.6      413        -76.2     -34.9         _
mt DOadc Cred                             749.6    3261        91.2    3U.9       919.3    1,029.9    1,1335    1,3O22         0.0
To GovumatBudg                          357.3    377.0    365.0    342.7       312.5      253.       30.9       444.2         _
To Odw Ocial Efin                          ..       ..        ..        -          ..         _         ..         ..         -
To P,Mva Secat                          3923      449.1    526.2    5462        607.3     7734       374.       933O0    1,035.7
Total Ames  LiahdWn                        6633     757.3     U5.5    939.9    1,042.4       94W6    1,1073    1,347.3           -
Moey ad Quabnany (L)                    361.6    443.3      2.4    633.9          .3      325.2    1,343    1,23.1   1104.1
Net O0   liahb                          301.7    309.5    295.1    306.0       219.6      123.4       72.5      111.2 
C Offet t Exnanalo ofMO
lnce4m in Momqy4.Qu o    %
No Formg AmeS                               26.7    -51.6    -93.0    -91.6       -23.2    3,547.7      -15.0      -15.3 _
Net Dome CQvQ                             191.1     33.2      323       -2.2      16.4    4,537.5       733       93.7          -
Cm& to G      _owm                       46.9     22.7    -15.2    -209         -16.0   -2,54L7       27.4       67.2
Crdt to O0c  E                             ..        .         ..       _          ..         _
Crea to PTiba.ea                        144.2     65.5      97.5      IL       32.3    7,129.2       45.9       3L.5..
Net Od eUrLids                             117.3    -0.4   -110.7   -193.S    -11L3   13,035.2          -4L7       -17.1
Net lnL R e (USS  iL)
Ch    &ritg ds y- y                      16.3    46.2    .4L         -0.3      -33.2      137.3      -17.1      -17.0     -23.S
Stock a md-of-yi (a uusam)             -135.3     4M.7     -53.2      33.4      30.0      -55.5      -4L6       -13.3       3.1
1/ Credit to Govenma Bu dg dam oe haLa dw pqymma on debt aine
de to rawh.&Wne sapuns.
Note: MQM denoe  mo    xd qua ioey.






I
I
I









