4          Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.9479
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORr
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
APRIL 5, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This doument has a resticted distribution and may be used by rediplents only in the performauee of
their officile duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiot Would Bnk authofzon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Name of Currency:                    Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
Appraisal Year Average (1980):        US$1.00 - M$2.18
Completion Year Average (1989):      US$1.00 - MS2.70
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hecare (ha)                  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         -     0.62 mile
1 meter (m)                    3.28 feet
1 kilogram (kg)          -     2.2 pounds
1 ton                          2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ac                 acres
C.H.O.      =      Constant Head Orifice
DID         =      Drainage and Irrigation Department
D.0         =      Drainage Outlet
DOA         =      (Perak) State Department of Agriculture
EPU                Economic Planning Unit
ERR                Economic Internal Rate of Return
FELCRA             Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority
FELDA       =      Federal Land Development Authority
ffb         -      fresh fruit bunch (oil palm)
F.O.        =      Field Offtake
FOA         3      Farmers Organization Authority
GOM         =      Government of Malaysia
ha          e      hectare(s)
_BRD        =     International   Bank   for  Reconstruction   and
Development
ICB         =      International Competitive Bidding
LCB         =      Local Competitive Bidding
LPN                I.embaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and
Rice Authority
MARDI       =      Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute
MLRD        =      Ministry of Land and Regional Development
MOA         =     Ministry of Agriculture
mt                 metric tonne
mUV                Manufacturing Unit Value
PLI                Poverty Line Income
PWD         =      Public Works Department
SAR         =      Staff Appraisal Report
SEDC        =      State Economic Development Corporation
SEPU        =      State Economic Planning Unit
SOE         =      Statement of Expenditures



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
US.A.
Op.nif IvaItih
April 5, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Malaysia
UTans-Perak Area Develoi,ment Project (Loan 1960-MA}
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Malaysias Trans-Perak Area Development Project
(Loan 1960-M&)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document ha a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 160N-MA)
TABLE Of CONTENT
MRFACE 
BASIC DATA SHEET  .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . .
EVALUATION SU2MARY  .................                         v
OVERVIEW 
Project Implementation                                   ix
Loan Effectiveness                                     ix
Early Impllenta:ion  .......               .ix
Project Reformulation. ............                    ix
Project Sustainability  .. ..xi.                         s
Borrower Perforiance                        .           xii
Bank Performance  . . .lit
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
INTRODUCTION                                              1
PART II
PROJECT BACKGROUND                    .  .    . .         2
A. Project Formulation  ...    .                          2
B. Project Are.   . . .  . . .      .                     2
C. Project Objectives and Description . . .  . . .        2
D. Project Organization . . . .. . . . . . . . .          4
E. Project Cost and Financing . .   . . . . . . . .       4
P Project Reformulation  ..... ..   ...                   4
C. Amendments to Loan/Project Agreements  . . . .         6
PART III
PROJECT ILEMENThTION  ..... ..  .                         7
A. Implementation of Project Components . . . . .7
- Drainage and Irrigation  ..........                  7
- Agricultural Development .                           g40**9*99  9
- Project Main Roads .l. .  ....         .            11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- West Coast Highway Section . . . . . . . . .      12
- Settler Houses . .   . .. ... ......              13
- Project Buildings  . . . ..........               13
- Processing Facilities  . . .........              14
- Equipment and Vehicles . ..........               15
- Township and Settlement Infrastructure . . .      15
B. Project Cost . . . .. ....  .... ....               18
C. Procurement  .. .. ... ...  .. .... .               18
D. Disbursement . . . . . . e.   ..   .. .. . .. ..    19
E. Institutionial Performance  . . . . . . . . . .     20
F. Compliance with Legal Covenants  . . . . . . .      21
PART IV
PROJECT IMPACT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
- Yields and Cropping Intensity  . . . . . . .      24
- Seed Production  . . . . . . . . . .#. .  . .     27
- Pests and Diseases . es. . .  . . . . . ...   .   28
- Water Management . . . . .  . .*.  . . . . .  .   28
- Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . .      29
- Production . . . . . . . .  . .  . .  . . .. ..   29
B.  Oil  Palm  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
C. Cocoa .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  33
PART V
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES . . . . . . . . .      35
A. Prices and Costs . . . . . . . . .......            35
B. Settlers' Incomes  .. .. .. .. .... ..              36
C. Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . .      37
D. Cost Recovery  . . . . . . ..  .  ...... . .        38
PART VI
LESSONS LEARNED AND CONCLUSION  . . . . . . . . .      41
Chart I Project Office Organization Chart
MAP IBRD 22846



AWnex                  D9flcriQtiOg
I           Key Performance Indicators
2           Hand-over Schedule from DI) to FELCRA
3           Drainage and  Irrigation  -  Physical Perforance  of
Works
4           Area Cleared, Planted and In Production
5           Roads Completed
6           Construction of Settler Houses
7           Buildings Completed
8           Vebicles and Equipment List
9           Settlement Infrastructure - Physical Porfora e
:3           Annual Project Cost, DID, PWD and Felera Cost.,
Settlement Infrastructure Costs
11           Reimbursement
12           Padi Production and Yield
13           Annual Oil Pals Plantings, Production and Yield
14           Annual Cocoa Plantings, Production and Yield
15           Price Structures for Rice, Pals Oil and Cocoa
16           Crop Production Budgets - Rehabilitated Padi,
Mechanised Padi, Oil Pals
and Cocoa
17           Settlers Cash Flow
18           Economic Costs and Benefits
- Agriculture Couponent.



- 1 -
PROJECT COIPLRTION REPORT
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LoAN 1960-NA)
This is the Proiect Completion Report  (PCR) for the Trans Perak Area
Development Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 1960-MA in the amount of US$50
million was approved on March 26, 1981.    The loan closed on schedule on June
30, 1989.  Following cancellations on May 22, 1986 and July 28, 1987 of US$4.0
million and US$15.35 million respectively, the remaining loan balance of
US$30.65 million was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on
September 15, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Borrower's Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation A;ithority (FELCRA), the lead implementing agency for the
project, and the Preface, Basic Data Sheet, Evaluation Summary and Overview
were prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department II,
Asia Region.
The Overview is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report No.
3220-MA,  dated  February  27,  1981;   Loan  Agreement  dated  May  6,  1981;
President's Report No. P-2917-MA, dated March 5, 1981; a Reformulation Report
dated April 28, 1986; Bank supervision reports and internal memoranda;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and the Borrower's progress
reports.
The Asia Regional Office expresses its appreciation to FELCRA for
preparing a comprehensive PCR.
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and the comments
have been incorporated in the final PCR.



- Lrt -
TR - AR AR    -CR         MW
(Wi  19604M)
-iEY PWOpJT DATA
Aisctajea           Acua l or         A       0tuel as * d
PROJ   dt  &m wn                                                so a
*gagg,w"srov                                           '   [3  ^            Ii 1
:at.ai& *et                                                 i5    ,o o4i
D%atif tlonal 04kferoe                                                >Eid I I *fa  fEi;t3Sj  of Prei... *          i
F I., o  frctS of pdeturfi £U7Re2 
AA
2  ES  F E9~~~~~~2                  Z FF
CLAAIV  DSM S~EPOW                       E       EX         B        t
VA$*       as I                                                                                 --S
Princ    f"Sal    -t_*                                t 7        s li r
Oatt    No. of    Ma-days,  Siiaiisaioa   Per                                  T     d
folr  rso       in field   reore       iwtdl     ruan * lbo   Trd tre     S.
_                         ~ ~ _
- 1                                                                                                -
oTHm PFlJW' DATA
S-rvsiox ~          ~ IL   Ii  1L  lL0  _Z LA __
sr-rvi*iefi ~ ~ -fm -  Osi;    _!;           .._
Ii  12   J    4e A.  4                  L
ThgsL          LA AiLL            SLI LI iLl "  iL              l miL MA   UA  LI  LgMALI
Na.. ot eurresey (abhrNMev-101. i utiasi                             =aborwit
Year~~
L~a e . ariculturipat  b a  ggricultural  .ceom,aitl    a  a oimarl  d  a I rrigatbion angin..r; a a sace
agofel;iat, f a fleaa.,is analyat.
-    I a .rgelom1-f.e or mi 2ow problem; 2 a aedarft. *r.bl.aS   and 8   m onjr problm.
imaparoving; S a stationary. 3   detaireorating.
P   finaneial; N4 a amaag.rial: I T   tehical; P = political;I and 0 = other.



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETIN REPORT
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Descripticn
Poverty alleviation, by settling landless families or those with
uneconomic holdings on newly-developed land and by assisting existing farmers
to increase productivity and incomes, was the major objective of the project.
In addition, the project would assist rice self-sufficiency, increased
exports, and more balanced  regional  development.    About 6,900 settler farm
families were to benefit directly.   The project, to be implemented over seven
years (mid-1981 to mid-1988), provided for improvement of about 3,700 ha of
existing rice land and development of about 6,400 ha of new rice land and
8,400 ha of tre, crops; improvement and construction of canals, drains and
flood embankment; construction of farm roads, project access roads and a 27 km
section of the West Coast Highway; construction of a township and improvement
of the Sungei Dedap village settlement; construction of a palm oil factory and
a cocoa drier/fermentary; agricultural support services and facilities; and
consulting services for detailed design and construction supervision of
project works and preparation  of  future  projects.    The  project was to be
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with the assistance of
agencies under MOA and other ministries.
Implementation Experience
There were significant early implementation delays due to the late
appointment of the Project Coordinator; delays in surveys, designs (including
Township Masterplan), and land acquisition; inadequate budget allocations;
uncertainty as to agency responsibility for main road construction; and
additional structure requirements (for the flood bypass) for the West Coast
Highway section.   Due  to  coordination  difficulties, the responsibility for
project coordination and implementation was transferred on January 1, 1984
from MOA to the Ministry of Land and Regional Development, which appointed the
Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) as the lead
implementing Pgency. Due to changing economic and technical conditions, a
project reformalation was finalized in February 1986, which revised targets
downwards for new rice land to 4,500 ha, for tree crops to 7,600 ha and for
settler families to 4,000, and upwards for existing rice land to 4,370 ha.
The new rice area was, however, to be operated by FELCRA as a fully mechanized
rice estate with all operations  contracted  out.   Settlers would earn income
from wages or contract work in both rice and tree crop estate operations and
get a share in profits.   The  reduction  in the target number of settlers was
due to the reduction in the target for new rice land; decline in commodity



-vi-
prices, particularly of palm oil, which necessitated a larger area per settler
to ensure incomes above the poverty level; and the declining interest of
individual farmers in rice growing, leading FELCRA to operate the new rice
area as an estate, which, however, required fewer settlers due to its fully
mechanized operations.
Project completion date was extended from June 30, 1988 to December
31, 1988; project cost was revised from M$430 million (uS$200 million) to
M$344 million (US$143 million); and Bank loan amount was reduced to US$46
million from the original US$50 million. At completion, project cost was only
M$264 million (US$104.5 million) and the final Bank loan amount US$30.65
million. The loan closed on schedule on June 30, 1989.
Results
Despite early implementation problems, the project was an overall
success and  increased  productivity  and  incomes  of  settlers.   At project
completion in early 1989, rehabilitated padi area was 4,035 ha (109X of
appraisal and 922 of reformulation target), new padi area 4,353 ha (68Z of
appraisal and 97t of reformulation target) and tree crop area (mostly oil
palm) 8,218 ha (97X of appraisal and 108X of the reformulation target). The
achievement of a 200Z cropping intensity for padi was particularly remarkable
and yields of about 4 tons/ha per season are close to appraisal estimates.
There have also been major changes in farm cultural and agronomic practices in
the project area, such as the introduction of dry ploughing followed by
puddling,  direct  seeding  and   mechanized   harvesting.    Except  for  the
rehabilitated rice area, the entire newly developed land for rice and tree
crops is now managed as a PELCRA estate where settlers provide labor.
Irrigation  works  construction   exceeded   targets;   project  access  roads
construction (54.6 km) was 103? of appraisal and 90? of reformulation target;
and West Coast Highway section (24.3 km) was 902 of appraisal and 100? of
reformulation target.    However,  due  to  a  substantial under-estimation at
appraisal, cost of access roads and the West Coast Highway section exceeded
appraisal estimates by almost 100?. Due to a decision to reduce the number of
settlers consistent with project employment opportunities, only 1,434 settler
houses were constructed compared to the appraisal and reformulation targets of
6,900 and 4,000 respectively. Other settlement infrastructure costs were only
44X of appraisal and 62? of reformulation estimates. Although the number of
settlers, as decided by the State Government, is to be 4,000, for the time
being only those who can be fully employed by the project, estimated at 2,000,
will be emplaced. Palm oil mill construction (40 ton fresh fruit bunch/hour)
was  postponed   due   to   delayed   plantings   and   production  and  cocoa
drier/fermentary was constructed with a capacity of 2 tons dried beans/day
compared to the expected 5 tons/day, due to lower production of cocoa.
Consultancy services were utilized except for the preparation of future
projects.
The economic rate of return (ERR), estimated at completion only for
the agricultural component, is 10? compared to 18? at appraisal and 9? at
reformulation.   The  main  reason  for  the  lower  ERR  compared  to that at
appraisal is the decline in world commodity prices, particularly for rice,



- vii -
which his an ERR of 6? compared to 20? at appraisal. The annual operation and
maintenance costs are also substantially higher than appraisal estimates,
mainly due to a significant increase in wage rates in real terms.
Sustainability
Overall, the project is  sustainable.    However,  this is due to the
economic and financial viability of  oil  palm.   Padi, which will account for
the major part of agricultural and irrigation recurrent costs, is economically
not viable, given the projected world ra.Le prices. Its financial viability
depends on whether the Government will continue to subsidize padi production.
Given the projected world prices, cocoa is also economically and financially
not viable. However, actual yields and cropping intensity of padi are very
satisfactory and irrigation works are being properly maintained.  An upturn in
world rice prices will render  project  sustainability  beyond question.   The
West Coast Highway, if its proper maintenance continues, is likely to yield
sustained benefits. Organizationally, the project is sustainable as FELCRA
continues to manage it through a project office, which is adequately funded
and staffed. However, the Government needs to determine the desirable number
of settlers and beneficiaries which the project can sustain over the long run.
Moreover, with a view to effectively divest FELCRA of the project management
responsibility in the long run, FELCRA should continue to strengthen the
settlers' cooperative, which is already actively engaged in tendering for land
preparation, field maintenance and harvesting, and in transporting project
output.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Typifying the experience of many multi-component projects, the late
appointment of the Project Coordinator caused early implementation delays.
For projects of this nature, early appointment of Project Coordinator is
essential.
Delay  in  infrastructure   development,   particularly  access  road
construction, delayed agricultural  development.    Moreover,  access road and
West Cost Highway costs were grossly underestimated at appraisal. In proje,cts
of this nature, where infrastructure development must precede agricultural
development,  greater  attention  to   preparation   and  supervision  of  the
infrastructure componont is needed.
The prcject demonstrated that the estate form of management, usually
associated with tree crops, can also be successfully used for large-scale
mechanized rice cultivation, provided that large investments in machinery and
workshop facilities are avoided.
Overseas visits by the technical staff had a marked beneficial impact
on their skills through exposure to technological developments in other
countries, particularly for management of mechanized padi.
The Statement of T,penditure  (SOE)  procedure was introduced only in
the later period of the  project.    The  use  of this procedure from the very
start, recognizing that small contracts and payments are a common feature of
land development, would have accelerated disbursement.



- ':'iii .
In the early years, Bank supervision missions did not show enough
flexibility in response to changing conditions and, consequently, project
implementation suffered. Later, the flexibility and appropriate skill mix of
Bank missions had a favorable impact, particularly on the implementatior of
large-scale mechanized rice cultivation.



- ix -
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
mmYS
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
OVERVIEW
1.       This overview utilizes information  from  documents (listed in the
Preface) other than the PCR and supplements parts of the PCR relating to
project implementation and reformulation, project sustainability, Borrower
performance and Bank performance.
Proiect Implementation
2.       Loan Effectiveness.   Loan  effectiveness  was declared some three
months later than anticipated on October 23, 1981 due to the late
appointment of the Project Coordinator (the appointment was a condition of
loan effectiveness). However, the appointed person could not take up his
position until December 22, 1981 because of delays in issuing the formal
letter of appointment.
3.       Early Implementation.  The  project  was  to be implemented over a
period of  7  years  from  mid-1981  to  mid-1988.    Construction of major
irrigation and drainage works was already in progress and it was expected
that on-farm development works would start in 1982. Most of the township
facilities were expected to be completed in 1984 and construction of
settler houses would  be  phased  with  land  development.   The West Coast
Highway section was expected to be completed in 1985. However, there were
significant early implementation delays due to the late appointment of the
Project  Coordinator;  delays  in   surveys,  designs  (including  Township
Masterplan),  and   land   acquisition;   inadequate   budget  allocations;
uncertainty as to  agency  responsibility  (Federal  and State Public Works
Department)  for   main   road   construction;   and  additional  structure
requirements (for the flood bypass) for the 27 km long section of the West
Coast Highway, which resulted in a l-year delay in starting construction
and over 10O increase in cost over the appraisal estimate. Delays in
crop area development were due to contractual failures and severe crop
damage by wild boars, which necessitated considerable replanting.
4.       Project Reformulation.   During  a  period of project coordination
difficulties,   the   responsibility    for    project   ckordination   and
implementation was transferred on January 1, 1984 from MOA to the Ministry
of Land and Regional Development, which appointed FELCRA as the lead
implementing  agency.    With   the  significantly  decreased  i- erest  in
smallholder rice growing, the Government of Malaysia (GOM) decided, on the
Bank's request, to review the project concept, the implementation schedule
and costs. In the meantime, land development and civil works construction
had been progressing satisfactorily, although behind the original schedule.



Only township development remained stalled. A project reformulation report
was to be completed by June  1984.   However, GOM then contemplated changes
in its Rice Policy and a reformulation report was delayed until late April
1985.   In  the  meantime,  the  Bank  had  reviewed  a  draft  of  the GOM
reformulation proposal which recommended that: (a) new padi dev3lopment
should stop at 1,630 ha already completed since rice price projections and
high development costs made this component economically unviable; (b) the
balance (2,852 ha) of the rice area be converted to oil palm (with drainage
and internal roads only); and (c) the settler number be reduced to about
2,500 (due to insufficient employment creation from fully mechanized rice
growing).   During  the  mid-1985  Reformulation  Mission,  the issues were
discussed but no final decision could be made since GOM had not decided on
its new Rice Policy.
5.       Although rice growing continued to be highly subsidized (300 kg/ha
free fertilizer; a padi delivery bonus of M$ 165/ton; and low cost
irrigation water and agricultural credit), farmer interest diminished.
This resulted in much idle rice land. GOM, therefore, reviewed its policy
for rice self-sufficiency, which at the time of appraisal had reached 90?,
but had declined to about 702 in 1984. It was decided in September 1985 to
reduce this to about 60X with rice growing to be concentrated in the major
Granary Areas.
6.       During  the  long  review  period,  construction  and agricultural
activities continued strongly under FELCRA's new Project Coordinator and
Senior Agriculturist.    In  January  1985,  a  strong  management team was
emplaced. Project reformulation was finalized in February 1986 after the
Government had decided to retain Trans Perak as one of its Granary Areas.
Since, by that time, all irrigation and drainage works contracts were
already ongoing, the Bank agreed to continue financing rice development
although the ERR for this component was calculated at about 72 and the
overall revised ERR for the project was about 9?. Under the reformulated
project, there were only minor changes in crop area. The rehabilitated
rice area continued to be operated as individual farms, but with FELCRA
assisting in arranging and supervising contract operations for land
preparation and harvesting, and Department of Agriculture assisting in
other activities. The new rice area would, however, be operated by FELCRA
as a fully mechanized rice estate with all operations contracted out. This
decision to contract out eliminated the purchase of tractors, cultivating
equipment  and  combine  harvesters   as   well  as  the  establishment  of
substantial workshop facilities by FELCRA and was thus quite cost-
effective. Settlers were to provide labor for both rice and tree crop
estate operations (for daily wages and contractual work) and get a share in
profits. The State Government decided that the number of settlers should
be 4,000. The reduction in the target number of settlers from 6,900 at
appraisal to 4,000 at reformulat3on was necessitated by several factors:
(a) the target for new rice land was reduced from 6,400 ha at appraisal to
4,500  ha;  (b)  commodity   prices,   particularly   for  palm  oil,  were
substantially lower than those envisaged at appraisal whereas the poverty
threshold (in peninsular Malaysia) increased from M$290/month per family in
1981 to M$360/month by 1986 (M$380/month by 1988), requiring larger amount
of land per settler to ensure incomes above the poverty level; and (c) due
to the declining interest of individual farmers in rice growing and



- xi -
FELCRA's success in the estate form of management for tree crops, it was
considered advisable to let FELCRA operate the new rice areas as an estate$
however, the fully mechanized operations of the estate required fewer
settlers than projected at appraisal.
7.       The overall implementation period was  increased  from 7 to 7-1/2
years to  December  31,  1988.    The  revised  cost  estimate was US$143.0
million, and based on the already revised disbursement percentage for civil
works of 40S, the loan amount was revised to US$46.0 million  (cancellation
of US$4.0 million was on May 22, 1986).
Protect Sustainability
8.       PELCRA is continuing to r-   i the rice and oil palm/cocoa estate.
With  effective  management,  treec  p  -. rations  should  continue  to be
satisfactory.   Production  and  profiti.Ality  of  tree  crops will depend
greatly on the provision of timely inputs (fertilizers and pesticides);
timely weeding, pruning, harvesting, transport and processing; adequate
maintenance of infrastructure (drains and roads); and good international
commodity prices. Harmonious relations with settlers for labor supplies
are pre-conditions and this will to a great extent depend on their incomes
from labor (daily rates as well as income from contracts and share in
estate profits).   Mechanized  rice  estate  operations demand an extremely
high standard of management, supported by continued research feed-back, and
with many seasonal and on-the-spot decisions necessary to retain high
production levels. Many of these decisions will depend on the outcome of
the ongoing national research (choice of variety, and pest and weed
control/management) and local verification research (fertilizer rates, pest
management,  water  management,   method   of  crop  establishment,  etc.).
Management must be able to adhere to pre-set time tables for cultural
operations to avoid slippage in the presently achieved exemplary 200?
cropping intensity. High rice yields demand good plant densities and these
can only be achieved by direct seeding on well levelled and well drained
fields without pest damage.    Once  a  satisfactory regular (without gaps)
plant density has been obtained, adequate fertilizer has to be applied in a
timely manner, while a high standard of water, weeds, and pest management
is required. FELCRA has proven to be able to deliver (after an initial
shaky start) and it  is,    therefore,  of  utmost importance that the high
standard of management be retained.   Despite the achieved high padi yields
in the last few seasons, rice profitability is heavily dependent on the
available subsidies (low irrigation fee, free fertilizers and a padi
delivery bonus), as international rice prices continue to be lower than the
cost of production in the project area. Settler incomes will, therefore,
continue to be dependent on the profitability of tree crops and the
availability of subsidies for rice (also on a high standard of maintenance
of the irrigation, drainage and road infrastructure). Both rice and tree
crops are well adapted to the Trans Perak area and available technologies
can provide yields which are comparable with the best in other tropical
areas.



- xii -
Borrower Performance
9.       Imediately following project effectiveness, GOM was forced to cut
budgets due to the general financial  constraints.   In the first two years
after loan signing, only about 102 of the anticipated disbursements was
actually achieved. During this period, management problems were evident
and coordination between the various implementing agencies was weak. Most
of these difficulties emanated from the lead agency issue dating back to
the preparation and appraisal period when MOA wanted to execute the project
as one of its integrated area projects and FELCRA wished to execute it as a
settlement project. Since there were several agencies involved in project
implementation, it had been agreed that MOA would appoint a Project
Coordinator, who would be responsible to a high level Steering Committee,
and would implement the project as an area development project. By mid-
1983, MOA made two proposals for changes in project designs
(a) MOA to take over management of the padi areas from FELCRA, while
FELCRA would retain responsibility for the tree crop area and
township development; and
(b) farm sizes to be doubled to 4.9 ha (12 acres) to provide settlers
with incomes well above the poverty line and to eliminate
fertilizer subsidies for rice.
10.      The Bank then, in a letter  dated  May 17, 1983, requested a detailed
financial, technical, economic and social justification of the proposed
project changes.   Following  internal  GOM  reviews, project coordination was
transferred to FELCRA on  January  1,  1984.    FELCRA  then appointed its own
Projcct  Coordinator,  who  began,  with   the  assistance  of  an  expatriate
consultant, the reformulation study. This study took a long time, mainly due
to uncertainties regarding the rice sub-component (paras. 4 and 5). When it
was finally decided that Trans Perak would be included in Malaysia's official
'Granary Areas', the proposal was  completed.    The Bank then agreed in March
1986 with  FELCRA's  proposal.    Rice  development,  although  not considered
economically viable, was to continue since all development contracts had
already been let, but on the  basis  of a fully mechanized rice estate (para.
6). Project progress for infrastructure development proceeded rapidly with
good agency coordination. FELCRA's performance in record keeping, submission
of progress reports, withdrawal applications and audited accounts was fully
satisfactory. Due to changing requirements of canal and road layouts for
mechanized rice farming, FELCRA had to make changes in roads, fieldsize, in-
field drainage, land leveling and sanitation (for rat and other pest
control/prevention). Additional d-ainage for rice had to be provided to allow
rapid  evacuation  of  excess  water  within  the  scheme  area.    FELCRA had
considerable problems with some poor performing tree crop contractors, as well
as poor plant survival rates in early years (because of rats and boars) and
some incidence of lalang  competition.    Adaptation  to the precise standards
required for mechanized rice cultivation was slow, but after management
personnel viewed and discussed operations and requirements during a study tour
to Australia, significant Improvements were made, which immediately resulted
in higher yields. The Public Works Department (PWD) performed excellently on



- xili -
the  highway  component,  but   due   to  some  poor  contractor  performance,
rectification proved necessary in one of the access roads.
Bank Performance
11.      There were a substantial  number  of  issues  to  be resolved both in
Malaysia and in the Bank before Board approval of this rather complicated
agricultural development project. The various issues were thoroughly reviewed
and reasonably satisfactorily resolved. However, the project management issue
could possibly have been addressed more decisively: the initial unsatisfactory
management arrangement proved a major cause of delayed project implementation
(apart from the factor of budgetary shortfalls in Malaysia's austerity years).
Over the 74-year implementation period, there were 13 supervision missions,
initially comprising civil engineers and agricultural economists and, later,
mostly  an  agronomist  and  a  tree  crops  specialist.    Revisions  to cost
estimates, mostly based on ongoing contract work, were poorly done by the Bank
staff and FELCRA management and this led to a cancellation of almost 402 of
the loan amount. The Bank's supervision missions in the early years showed
less flexibility than was needed but later provided substantial technical
assistance to FELCRA.    Overall,  the  Bank's  performance  can be considered
satisfactory.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
PART I: INTRODUCTION
1.01   This   Project   Coupletion  Report  for  the  Trans-Perak  Area
Development Project is prepared in compliance with Section 3.05(d) of
the Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) dated May 6, 1981. This is the
first World Bank loan in which the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) was involved as an implementing
agency.   The  US$80 million loan which was approved on March 26, 1981,
was to finance an integrated area development project covering an
area of 18,500 hectares over a period of 7 1/2 years from 1981 to
mid--1988.   The  project  was  originally   under   the   Ministry   of
Agriculture (MOA) with the main implementing agencies being the
Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), the Public Works Department
(PWD)  and  FELCRA.  On  January  1,  1984  responsibility   for   the
nageent  of  the project passed from  the MOA to the Ministry of Land
and Regional Development (MLRD)Ll to be managed by  FELCRA.   Primarily
as a result of changing economic and technical conditions and a
reduction in scope of the project, the project was reformulated and
the loan amount was reduced, initially to US$46.0 million on May 22,
1986 and finally to US$30.65 million on August 11, 1988.   Following  a
half year extension, the loan was fully disbursed on September 15,
1989.
LI Effective from July 1, 1987 Felera was transferred to the
Ministry of National and Rural Development.



- 2 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UMALASI
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
PART I: PROJECT BACKGROUMD
A. Pr9ject Formulation
2.01    The project was one  of  four projects  identified  by a
regional developmet study of the Lower Perak basin undertaken in
1976 by ESAMS (Malaysia), in mociation with Hloward  Humpbreys   &
Sons  (UK).  Project preparation  took  place in 1978/1970 luring
which the  Perak  State  Bconamic  Planning  Unit  (SBPU)  .d  the
Economic Planning Unit in the Prim Minister's Department jointly
prepared the project with aistauec  frm  local consultants  RE"
WKidt Sda. Bhd., in assciation with Snowy Mountain  ginoering
Corporation (SEC) (Australia).  Advisor of  the  UNDP/IBRD  State
and Rurl Develop ant Project also provided substantial inputs
into  the  project preparation.   Fre-appraisal  took  place  in
September/October  1979 with  a  follow-sp  being carried out in
January 1980. Project appraisal by the World Bank  took  place  in
June/July  1980.   Following  loan negotiations from January 22-29,
1981 in Washington D.C. and approval by the Bank's Board on March
26, 1980, the loan was signed on May 6, 1981 for a su of
US*50.00 mdllion and beame effective on October 23, 1981.
B. Froect  Am
2.02   The project is located in the state of Perak  on  the w_t
coast of Peninsular Malaysia. It lies at the south e tern edge
of an 80,000 he ammWy flodplain on the right bank of the Perak
River, some 10 kam inland from the Straits of Malacca and about
80ko from Ipoh, the state  capital.   It has a  tropical climate
charecterised   by   high   rainfall,   humidity  and  teperaturm.
Average annual rainfall is about 2100  -  with  monthly  peaks  in
April and October.   Rainfall  is much  lower  and more variable
during January - February and June - July resulting in two short
but  dintinct   dry   periods   where  evapotranspiration  exceeds
rainfall.
2.03   The project area slopes gently  fro  north  to south and
the  surface  is  generally  flat with  interwoven  ridges and
depression. Distinct old river courses bisect the southern part
of the  project.  The soil  is mainly of riverine sedimento with
the remainder a mix of riverine and marine sedLints, overlain
with sballow peat and organic muck.
C. Proiect Obiective A;nd DescriptioM
2.04    The maib  objectives of the  project were  to eradicate
poverty  by settling  landlem  farers   or  those   cultivating
uneconoic  sized   holdings   on newly  developed  land  and  by
assisting existing farmers to increse productivity and incomes.
The project was also to assist in achieving rice self-sufficiency
and increase foreign exchange earnings from tree crops and also
to achieve a more balanced regional distribution of development.



-3-
2.05    The  project  was to provide for improvement of about 3,700
ha of existing rice land, developoent of about 6,400 ha of new
rice land and 8,400 ha of treecrops. Settlement facilities were
to have been provided for 6,900 families.
2.06    The Project was to comprise developuent activities  over  a
period of eight years (1981-1988) and consisted of the following
main components:-
(a)     improvement of about 122 km and construction  of  about  79
km of main and secondary canals;
(b)    improvement  of  about  73  km and construction of about 12
km of main and secondary drains;
(c)    development  of  about  6,400  ha  of  new  land  for  rice
cultivation, including land clearing and levelling, and
construction of tertiary canals, drains and farm roads;
(d)     rehabilitation  of  about  3,700  ha of existing rice land,
including levelling On 1,000 ha and construction of farm
roads;
(e)     land  development  and  crop  establishment for about 8,400
ha of treecrops, including land clearing, internal drains
and farm roads and bridges;
(f)    improvem_nt of  the  existing 66 km and construction of 29
km of flood embankbent;
(g)    construction of 53 km of project main roads;
(h)    construction of a 27 km section of the West Coast Highway;
(is    construction of a township and improvement of  the  Sungai
Dedap village settlement for 6,900 settler farm families;
(j)    provision   of  agricultural  support  services,  including
offices, workshops, and staff housing; and
(k)    construction of processing facilities for oil palm  with  a
capacity of 40 ton fresh fruit bunch (ffb)/hr and for
cocoa with a capacity of 5 ton dried beans/day.
2.07    ln addition,  the  project  was  to  provide  vehicles  and
equipment   for   agricAtural   support services,  operation  and
maintenance, and consulting services for detailed design and
construction supervision of project works and preparation of
future projects.



-4-
D. Erg9JAL"rghaiamtIQ
2.08    A Project Coordinator wa appointed by the MOA  in  October
1981 to coordinate and manage the project and he was guided on
policy  matters  by  a   Steering   Committee   composed   of   the
Secretar'aus-General of the MDA and the MUM, the State Secretary
of Perak and other  officials.   The  major  implementing  agencies
were:
(a) FELCRA - responsible for land development and settler housing.
(b) Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) - responsible for
drainage, irrigation and flood control works.
(c) Public Works Departaent (PWD) - responsible for roads.
2.09    Tha  other  participating  agencies included Perak S8DC for
settlement services, Department of Agriculture (DOA), Farmers
Organisation  Authority  (FOA), Malaysian  Agricultural   Research
Development Institute (MURDI) and Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM)
for agricultural support services and National Padi and Rice
Authority (LPN) for padi marketing.
2.10    In   an   effort  at  streamlining  the  functions  of  the
implementing agencies, the government felt that the ministry in
charge of the key implementing agency should take the lead in
project coordination. Thus, from January 1, 1984, the government
decided to shift the responsibility for project coordination and
implementation from the MDA to the MLhD to be implemented by
Felcra.
E. Preit_ Qgt 3and Firangcig
2.11    At  appraisal,  total  project cost was estisated at US$4200
million (MS430 million) of which the foreign exchange costs
amounted to about US$67.0 million (M$144 million).   The  Bank  was
to finance 75X of the foreign exchange costs amounting to US$50
million (M$107.5 million) and the government wa tu finance the
balance of the foreign cost nd the full local costs of the
project amounting to US$150 million (M$322 million).
F.    oject.fte.or.ulafion
2.12    The period in which Felcra took over the  role  of project
coordinator coincided with a period of budget restraint in which
world crude oil prices plunged to an all time low for the next
few  years.  Consequently, GaM  decided  to  review  all projects
including  the  Trans-Perak  Project.   Project  reformulation  was
proposed and meanwhile CQM  undertook  a  review  of  the  National
Rice Policy.



-5-
Felcra submitted a reformulation proposal incorporating a number
of changes in project concept, implementation schedule, project
scope and changes in modus operandi affecting the rice areas.
The whole exercise was finalised in February 1986 after GOM
decided that the Trans-Perak area should remain as a granary area
and the Perak State Government decided the number of settlers to
be  4,000.   Major  changes  arising from the reformulation were as
follows:-
a)      The  new  padi  area  was  to  be  nperated  as   a   fully
mechanised   rice   estate   using   contractors   in   all
operations.   This  meant that settlers no longer worked on
their individual 1.2 ha pedi plots but would be employed
as casual labourers and paid wages for work done as in
the tree crop area. rt was decided that heavy equipment
such   as   combine   harvesters  would  not  be  purchased
outright but instead harvesting would be contracted out.
b)      The new township at Changkat Lads  was  scaled  down  to  a
service centre as there would be fewer settler houses and
reduced infrastructure and utilities.
c)      Settler number was reduced from 6900 to 4000L.
d)      The implementation period was extended by 1/2 a year to
7 1/2 years ending December 31, 1988.
e)      Project  cost was  revised  from  M$430  million   (US$200
million) to M$344 million (US$143 million). Subsequently
the Bank loan amount was also revised downwards by US$4
million from USS50 million to USS46 million.
2. 13   About  a  year after project reformulation, the project was
subjected to further review and the project cost was recalculated
at M$252.3 million (IIS$103 million) while the Bank loan amount
was further reduced by USS15.35 million and the final loan amount
was US$30.65 million.
Z2  Of  the  6,900 settlers, 1,700 were already in the project area and
the State Government had given priority for settlement to these
residents. So in effect, only 5,200 were to have been selected
as new settlers. The final figure of 4,000 settlers was based on
the peak labour demand calculated at 4,296 units at reformulation.



-6-
G. Kwg)-dTqn1B2 290rP.sgo Agr9saga
2.14    In  the  course  of project iuplementation, som  amndmnts
were made to the loan/project agreements.  The first  amndmnt  to
the   Lon   Agreemnt   was   made  on  April  1,  1983  when  the
disburseent percentage for Category 2 (civil works other than
settlement  infrastructure)  ws changed from 31* to 40*.  This wa
to  cater  for  force   accosmt   expenditures   which   were   not
reimbursable at the time.
2.15    The  second  amendment  occurred on May 13, 1986 when a sue
of US$4.0 million was cancelled frm the original loan amount of
US$50.0  million  following  project  reforulation.   At  the same
time there were amendments to Schedule 2 of the Project Agreemnt
as follows:-
ParSt     Decrittina                     t    OrljLgje
D     Improvement of existing           ha   3,700 ha    4,370 ha
rice land
C     Development of new                ha   6,400 he    4,500 ha
rice land
-     Developmet of tree crops          ha   8,400 ha    7,600 he
I     Vet Coast Highway construction  km        27 km     24.3 km
Project main roads                km      53 km       52 km
I    Construction of township and   No. of   6,900         4,000
iuprovunt of Sg. Dedap         settler
village settlement for          families
K     Construction of processing    .caacit
facilities for oil palm       tons ffb/hr    40         27
and cocoa                      tons dried
beans/day       5         2
Project  completion  date  was  extended  from  June  30,  1988  to
December 31, 1988.
2.16    Another  amendment  on  August 11, 1987 further reduced the
loan amount by US$15.35 million to US$30.65 million.
2.17    The use of  Statement  of  Expenditure  (SOS)  wEs  allowed
following another amendment to the Loan Agreement on March 23,
1987. This was to facilitate and expedite disbursement for small
direct   purchases   and   force   account  expenditures  for  land
development works.



-7-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
UMALASIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
PART II:: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01    At  project  completion,  the  project  was  brought  to  a
successf'ul close and overall performance of the project had been
quite   satisfactory.    Although   there   existed   a  number  of
constraints  from  the   beginning   for   the   land   development
cozponent, the whole area was aleost fully planted by project
closing with rice yields exceeding the reforowlation target of
4.2  mt/ha.   Inspite  of  cost increases and implementation delays
caused  by  difficult  ground   conditions,   budget   constraints,
contractual   failures   and   revision  in  scope  of  works,  the
performance of infrastructure works were generally satisfactory.
Construction of drainage and irrigation infrastructure by DID was
generally completed on schedule although there were delays in
hand-over of the later phases of the new padi areas. The Went
Coast Highway Section was, despite early izpleentation delay,
satisfactorily  completed  and  the  standard  of  construction was
high.   All  the  access  roads  and  village   roads   have   beeo
constructed  and  part  of  the  Seberang Perak township settlement
infrastructure has also been  completed.   The  project   anagement
team has moved into the new office complex located in the ew
township area while 807 settlers had been emplaced by 1968.
Annex 1 shows the key physical performance indicators and details
of implementation are discussed in the following paragraphs.
A   tuIeMentation of Proje_t CguogMnets
Draj gd rrijp_ ion
3.02    DID was responsibie for the construction  of  all  drainage
and irrigation infrastructure up to tertiary level (farm level)
anti the provision of technical support including water manag_ment
and maLntenance of main and secondary canals and drains.
3.03    Implementation   of   this  component  has  been  generally
satisfactory and according to schedule with the exception of
certain  phases  in  the  new  padi  area.   Planning and design of
civil works for this component were carried out well before the
project coamenced but actual physical works coamenced in 1981.
To  facilitate  work  supervision,  a  DrD   project   office   was
established in Teluk Intan in 1982.
3.04    A  total  of 11 contracts comprising nine Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) and two International Competitive Bidding (IC8)
contracts   was   awarded  to  implement  variour  works  including
construction of main, secondary and tertiary canals and drains,
farm roads, land levelling, rehabilitation and improvement works
to the existing drainage and irrigation infrastructure in the
Left  Branch  Canal (LBC) are.  Physical works progressed soothly
in the early stages of the project period with the first block of



- a -
146 he of new pedi area being handxd-over on September, 1983 and
by the end of 1985 the whole of Phases 3, 4 and 5Z2 consisting of
1,426 ha had been completed and handed over to Felcra ready for
planting.   Meanwhile  drainage works in the tree crop area (Phases
10 to 15) had also been completed and ready for planting with oil
palm  and  cocoa.   Due  to  delay  in  calling  tender  for  a few
contracts, implementation of Phases 6 and 7 comprising 1,520 ha
only  coweaced  in  1984  while  Phases  8 and 9 covering 1,550 ha
started in 1985. Phaoes 6 and 7 were completed and handed over
to  Felcra  over  a period of two years from September 1986 to June
1987, while Phases 8 and 9 were fully handed over by July 1989.
Annex  2  shows the actual hand-over compared to the schedule drawn
up at reformulation.
3.05    Construction of the  29km Flood  Protection  Bund  and  the
internal drainage system in the tree crop area started in mid
1985  and  was  completed  1  1/2  years   later.    Drainage   and
irrigation   facilities   provided   under   the  project  included
independent field offtakes, drainage outlet for each 1.2 ha padi
lots with farmroad frontage on the drain side. The canal and
drain intensity is about 32m per  ha  in  the  Right  Branch  Canal
(RBC) area and 17. per ha in LBC area. Water duty provided at
pre-saturation is 5.60 1/s/ha with scheduling and 1.75 1/a/ba
during normal supply. Drainage module used is half-hour rainfall
with five years return period.
3.06    Annex 3 shows the  physical performance  of  the  drainage
and irrigation component undertaken by DID compared against
appraisal estimates.
3.07    The  expenditure  on  concrete  lining  of  part   of   the
secondary and all the tertiary canals proved to be well-spent
because those that were earth-lined posed a constant maintenance
problem to the project. An additional tidal gate was constructed
which was not recommended at appraisal but found to be necessary
during implementation to provide satisfactory drainage for both
the   tree   and   rice   crop   area.    Problems   faced   during
imple mentation  included   bad   weather,   contractual   failures,
difficult site conditions requiring saoe design modifications and
also budgetary constraints.
/3 Phases 1 and 2 which were developed by Felcra are located in the
rehabilitated padi area.



- 9-
AgrIcu.tural Development
3.08    The  progress  of  this  component had been unimpressive in
the early years as the project was bogged down with countless
problems such as contract failure, pest damage, low padi yields,
delay in land acquisition and  drainage  problems.   Implementation
was delayed by I to 2 1/2 years but towards the last two years
there  was  a  remarkable  turn  around  as   a   result   of   the
perseverance and determination of the project management team to
make it a success.
3.09    ThtLVv_EadL9eA  -  At appraisal the new  padi  area  was
estimated   at   6,400  ha  but  after  final  survey  was  revised
downwards to 4,482 ha at reformulation in 1986. The initial land
clearing works were undertaken by Felcra through contractors.
The whole area was predoainantly jungle and five contracts were
let according to the phasing of the area, i.e. Phases 3,4,5,6/7,
and 8/9. After land clearance, DrD took over the area to do the
design and construction of the tertiary canals and drains before
handing it over to Felcra for padi planting. The construction of
farm roads and land-levelling, though Felcra's responsibility,
was incorporated into DID's contracts for convenience and because
the budget allocation was provided by DID. As each phase was
completed, DID handed it over each area to Felcra ready for
planting.
3.10    The   original  plan  for  the  agricultural  area  was  to
introduce the 3+3 system whereby each settler family would be
allocated 1.2 ha (3 ac) of padi to be farmed individually and 1.2
ha of tree crops area to be managed on an estate  basis.   However,
based on the success of its share system or group farming style
of operation in its oil palm and rubber schemes, Felcra decided
to apply the same concept to the new padi area as well. In line
with the changes made, new rice technology such as direct seeding
in place of transplanting and large scale mechanised harvesting
were adopted.
3.11    The first phase of 146 ha in Phase 4  was  handed  over  in
September 1983, 9 months ahead of schedule. The first planting
took place  in  the  main  season  of  1983.   A  host  of  initial
teething   problems   were   encountered   among  which  were  poor
drainage, poor land levelling and water management/distribution,
insect damage and low soil pH. Only 124 ha were planted and the
yield achieved was half of the appraisal estimate, 0.74 mt per ha
compared with the targetted 1.5 mt per ha. As a result of the
poor performance, the World Bank supervision mission in 1984
stressed the need for recruitment of expertise and training of
field staff to improve management standards, ensure the timely
hiring of contractors and facilitate close adherence to the
cropping   schedule   to   ensure   successful  operation,  as  the
production of padi on an estate basis was a highly specialised
activity.



10 -
3.12    By  1985  all contracts for padi land development works had
been let and a total of 1,602 ha made available for  planting.   As
of December 31, 1988, a further 2,242 ha had been made available
for planting, bringing the  total  plantable  padi  area  to  3,844
ha.   This  represented  85.7%  of the reformulated target of 4,482
ha.  Tht balance of 638 hectares were handed  over  by  DID  before
the start of the 1989 main season.
3.13    In  October  1985  the  Bank  recomended the conversion of
the remaining new padi area (which had not been planted) to oil
palm in view of the fact that padi eoa not economically viable.
However, this recoceendation was rejected because the Trans-Perak
area had been gazetted by the government as a rice granary area.
It was also a time when the rice self-sufficiency target had been
reduced  t'rom  85% to 55* and. nil other now-grunary irrigsit-d amrens
were being considered for possible conversion to other worn
economically viable crops.
3.14    Rehabilitated Padi A   a -  At  appraisal,  about  :i,700  ha
of existing  rice  land  in  Blocks A,B,C and D in the Left Branch
Canal  (LBC)  area  were  earuried  for   improvement,   including
relevelling of about 1000 ha (FeLcra managed Phases I and 2),
improvemt/rehabilitation of the irrigation system  and  upgrading
of  farm  roads.   Rehabilitation  works  on  the area were to have
started in 1982/83 but were delayed due to land acquisition
problems, austerity   easures introduced by the government in 19W3
md the emergence in Block A of a group eL.rauraging farmers in
the  area  to participate in large scale padi cultivation tmder the
management of a conultancy firm.
3.15    Despite several dialogue sessions, the  farmers  could  not
be persuaded to join Felera and bence in  '*,tember 1984 it was
decided to exclude the rehabilitation of tns area from the
project. However, improvements to the drastvge and irrigation
infrastructure were included under the project and it was not:
until   after   l988   that   reconstruction   wd,ris   began.   TwO
tenderswere called, one for 3lock A and the othez for Blocks  B,  c
and  0.   The  contract  for Slock A wa completed ilt November L987
and that for Blocks B, C and 0 was completed in July 1988.
3.16    Tree._Cr2y_,Pgv9lo"     -  The total land area  estimated  at
appraisal was 8,400 ha but was subsequently revised downwards to
7,585 ha at reformliation comprising 6,464 ha of oil palm dmnd
1,121  ha  of cocoa.   The land which was originally jungle was to
be cleared for oil palm and cocoa.
3.17    Felling and clering works had actually  startedt aw  early
aS 1079 in Phases 10 and lOA, before prp.ject formulution, but
expenditures  incurred  from  October   1980   onwards   could  be
reimbursed  as  the  loan  provided  for retroactive financing from
that date. Land clearing works for the other phases took place



- 11 -
in 1981 (Phase 14), 1983 (Phases 109, lOC, 13 and 15) and 1986
(Pht...  11  and  12).  The reason for the delay in the developuent
of Phaoes 11 and 12 was that the original aEea was  taken  over  by
the State Government for a banana project covering about 200 ha
in whose manageament Felcra wa involved and as a result an
alternative area had to be found. Another reason was that soe
area involved alienated land and since the farm owners wished to
develop the land theselves, these areas were left out.
3.18    Planting  of  oil  palm comenced in 1981 and by the end of
1989, a total of 7,110 ha had been cieared of which 6,979 hu had
been planted and 5,000 ha brought into production. Remaining
plantings will be in 1990. In terms of achievement, the oil palm
hectarage is lOX higher than the reformulation estimate.
3.19    Palm  Losses  had  been  quite  high  in  tbe initial years
largely because of contractual failures, water logging and dumage
by  wild  animals.   In  the  early  years,  wild  boar  damage was
particularly rampant in Phases 10, IOA and l4, while phases 1i
and 15 encountered contractual and drainage problem as well as
wild elephants damage.  As a result,  a  high  level  of seedlings
supply had to be carried out and was the cause of uneven stands,
particularly in Pases 10 and 14.
3.20    Planting of cocoa started  in  1981  and  by  end  1989,  a
total of 996 ha had been planted. Another 112 ha will be planted
In 1990 bringing the total planted area to 1,108 ha, slighlly
below the reformulation estimate of 1,121 ha. Clonal planting
mterials and selected hybrids were used solely in the last two
years.   Sae  cocoa  established earlier were budded with improved
clones to ensure high yield potential. By end 1989, about 186 ha
of cocoa  had  come  into  production.   Annex  4  shows  the area
cleared, planted and in production for each crop compared against
appraisal and reformulation targets.
rtoje£t Main Ri8
3.21    About  53km  of  main  roads were to have been built by the
PWD within the proJect area, of which 27km  were  to  be  metalled.
The main or access roads were tendered in two packages called
Access Road Phase I involving 17.6 km and Access Road Phase II
involving  34.3km,  making  up  a  total  of 52 km, one km short of
theappraisal target. Only Access Road I was metalled during the
project  period.   A  subsequent  revision  in  1987  included  the
financing of the construction and metalling of Access Road 11[, a
9 km stretch of road in the township area formerly classitied :s
village  road.   However,  metalling  could  not be done during the
project period and so financing  was  included  in  the  F#!Icrn  Il
Project (Loan No. 2917 - MA).



- 12 -
3.22    AccesapRod  I -   Coamencement of design for the project
*ain  roads  was  targetted  for  mid  1980  with   coopletionA  of
coistruction  at  end 1984.  Survey works for Access Road I started
in mid-1981, one year  behind  schedule.   The  actual  design  was
done departmentally and was completed in mid-1983. Construction
coouenced in September 1983 and was to have been completed on
Decenber 27, 1984 but the contractor was given an extension of
time end the works were eventually completed on March 27, 1985.
3.23    During a site visit  to  the  area,  the  Bank  supervision
mission  was  dissatisfied  with  the poor standard of construction
caused by lack of supervision and the contractor  not  adhering  to
the  work  specifications.  There was also a spell of unusually bad
weather at one point which resulted in delay in construction.
Consequently,   the   Bank   mission   rocoonended   suspension  of
disbursem_nt until the situation was rectified.   PWD  subsequently
took   the   necessary   action  to  ensure  adequate  supervision,
rectified  the   situation   to   the   Bank's   satisfaction   and
disbursement was finally resumed.
3.24       csJRosdJ I  -  Design for this road and four concrete
bridges started in late 1982 and was  completed  in  October  1984.
Construction work started On March 18, 1985 and war to have been
completed in March 1987 but was eventually completed 13 monts
later  in  April  1988.   The  delay  was mainly due to contractual
problem. At project completion, this laterite - finished road
wm in a satisfactory state after final greding and shoulder
shaping had been cowpleted.
3.25    Access Hje-III -   Initially,  Access  Road  III  was  not
financed   under   the   project  as  it  formed  part  of  village
infrastructure. But during the June 1988 supervision mission, it
was agreed that the road shoula be considered a true access road
as it was the link road between the Sungai Dedap village along
the  new  township at Changkat Lada and the already metalled Access
Road  I.   The  Bank  agreed  to  finance  the   construction   and
metalling of the 9 km long access road. However, at loan closing
only  the construction cost WaS  disbursed.   Metalling  w    still
to be done when the loan was fully disbursed. Annex 5 shows the
length of access roads completed compared against appraisal.
Welt Coast Hi           ion
3.26    The West Coast Highway section  stretches  from  the  newly
constructed   Perak   River  Bridge  near  Teluk  Intan  along  the
southern perimeter of the  project  area  to  Kampung  Kayan.   The
work was well executed by a capable contractor and construction
supervision was satisfactory. It was scheduled for completion in
mid  1985  but was completed in February 1986.  The original length
of the highway section was to be 27 km but the final length was
24.3 km, shorter by 10.



- 13 -
3.27    The  West Coast Highway section was built across very soft
coastal swamp and through virgin  jungle.   Some  of  the  problem
encountered  included  land  subsidence  and  riny  season causing
delay in project work, and changes in design and construction
method.
3.28    The  highway  is  important  in  that  it serves an a major
link between the Trans-Perak area and the surrounding towns aaid
significantly shortens the route from Kuala Lumpur to Lumut ijy
about 100 km. A new bridge (not financed under the project) over
the Perak River was constructed which connects the West Coast
Highway section with the major road in Peninsular Malaysia.
Acceos to the project area is now more convenient following the
couple.ion of the bridge.
Settler Houses
3.29    Following the reduction in the number of  settler  families
expected  to  be  emplaced  in  the  project  area (para 2.10), the
number of settler houses was also scaled down as well.   The  first
350  units  were  completed  in  September  1983  and the first 300
participants were emplaced in January 1985.
3.30    Originally the construction of settler  houses  was  to  be
in three packages following ICB procedures but Felcra requested
and the Bank approved in November 1985 tendering in five packages
using LCB procedures since experience bad shown that tenders of
low cost single-storey timber buildings usually failed to attract
international bidders and that local bidders were competitive and
local materials easily available.
3.31    A total of seven LCB contracts covering  2,510  units  were
let  but  two  contracts  involving   600  units  failed  and  were
terminated when the contractor failed to coaence work. One
contract involving 600  units  was  partially  completed.   Another
contract  was  reduced  from  300  to  180 units.  The final actual
number constructed at project completion was 1,434 units (Annex
6) of which 1,290 were actually completed and 144 units partially
completed. Details of the contracts are shown in Table 1.
Proect  uildings
3.32    DID constructed its office complex and  staff  quarters  in
1982.   A  three  storey  office complex for the project management
conmenced construction in February 1987 and was completed in
October  1988.   A  total  of  174 units of staff quarters was also
constructed and  completed  in  June  1987.   Other  buildings  and
facilities provided during the project period included a padi
store, two chemical stores, garages and workshop for the vehicle
pool,   kindergarten,   community   hall,   children's  playground,
football field and a cooperative store. Details are at Annex 7.



- 14 -
TA_BLE 1: CONUCTIQN OE-_SETTLER HOUSES
Contract   Date of    No of    Actual No.       Progress of Work
Package  Completion   Units    Construe-
--  ___ggracted __t-1                        -
I        1983      350          350    Completed  and   occupied
sinceJanuar 1985
2        1987      360          380    Completed   on  March  5,
1987
3         -        600          244    Contract  terminated   on
December  8,  1988.   100
units completed and 144
units           partially
completed
4         -        300           -     Contract  terminated  due
to       failure        of
contractor to camenc
work.
a        1988      300          300    Completed      On      July
16,1988.
6         -        300          180    Contract reduced to 180
(180)                units only.
7          -        300           -     Contract  terminated  due
to contract failure.
Total                2,510        1,434
3.33    A  palm  oil  will  with  an  initial  capacity  of  4W ton
ffb/hour  wm   to  have  been   built   in   1986   and   a   cocoa
fermentary/drier  with  a  5 ton dried beans/day capacity wb.    be
established by the Federal Agricultural and Marketing Autho.-ity
(FAMA)   in   1986.   Due  to  implementation  delay  in  oil  palm
development, ffb production ws also delayed and hence it was
decided to delay the construction of the mill during the project
period as the fruits produced could be sent to the nearby
Nasaruddin  mill  for  processing.    The   oil   palm   mill   was
subsequently included for financing in the Second Felcra Land
Development Project (1988-1990). Design work for the mill wa
completed  and  tender was  called  for  civil works in 1989 while
tender for proprietory iteam was called in early 1990.



- 15 -
3.34    A simple cocoa drier of 2 ton/day  capacity  was  built  in
1986  instead  of  a  5  ton/day  drier  originally  planned.   The
production of cocoa fell below target and as such did not warrant
the construction of a  drier  of  bigger  capacity.   As  for  padi
milling facilities, no padi mill was set up during the project
period but steps are being taken by the appropriate authority to
ensure the provision of adequate milling facilities under the
Sixth Malaysia Plan (1991-1996).
1SMeunpt _and Vehicles
3.35    At appraisal a whole List of  equipment and  vehicles  was
prepared for procurement under the project totalling MS20.20
million.   During  the course of implementation, upon the advice of
the Bank's rice crop specialist, a review was undertaken on ma.jor
it m nent for use in the rice area and it was devided to
exclude  such  items  as   combine   harvestors,   excavators   and
transplanters which should be rented/leased or the job contract,ed
out rather than purchased outright as the maintenance costs would
be too exorbitant for the project to bear. As a result of this
change in policy, the vehicle and equipment list was triamed down
to include only four-wheel drive vehicles, tractors, trailers,
graders, other light utility vehicles, agricultural equipmeAt,
tools  and  implements.   This  has  proven  to be a cost-effective
decision. Three umits of land-levelling equipment have also been
procured  to  date.   Annex  B  shows  the  list  of  vehicles  and
equipment purchased for the project.
Townahin and Settleent Infrastructur
3.36    Although   this   component   form   part  of  the  project
package, the works carried out in the township including the
construction of settlement infrastructure were not financed by
the World Bank loan except the construction of settler house.
The proposed township and the existing village of Sungai Dedap
wa  to accoodate 6,900  settler  families,  about 5,500  in  the
township and 1,400 io the village. Each settler family was to
receive a timber house complete with water supply, electricity,
roads, drains and sewage disposal. In addition, three secondary
schooLs, seven primary schools, a recreation centre, a health
centre, and three clinics were to have been provided.
3.37    Changes  in  T_ oaiL Plan  -   The original township plan
was designed to accomodate 6,900 settlers, including 1,700 from
the  RUC  areas.   At  reformulation, rice cultivation was switchtei
from the lot system to mechanised padi estate cultivation which
meant  that  much less labour was required Yor the project and with
the State  Government's  decision  to  accommodate   only   4,000
participant families it was therefore decided to scalet (own the
township plan to that of a service centre.   This  caused  a  delay
in carrying  out  the  physical  works of other departments in theb
service centre. The plan also provided for the construction of a
project office complex, schools, health centre, clinics, post



- 16 -
office, social centre, mosque, shops and a whole range of urban
facilities complete with water supply and electricity supply.
The average size of each settler housing lot is 0.05 ha, half of
that provided  for  at  appraisal.   Annex  9  shows  the  physical
performance of settlement infrastructure.
3.38    Villageg  oads  -   Co mencement  of  design of the village
roads was targeted for mid 1980 with completion of construction
by  end  1985.   Actual design, however, started two years later in
aid 1982 with co pletion of  construction  in  January  1989.   The
design for the 19 Im Village Road I started in mid 1982 and was
completed  in  September  1983.   The  road  was  tendered  by  LCB
procedures.   Construction  took  place  in  March  1984  and   was
completed on schedule in July 1985. The econd package involved
Villag- Roads Ila, Ilc and the Changkat Lads Road covering a
total nf 52.90 km. The tender was also by LCB procedures with a
tender period of two years. Construction coinenced in the last
quarter of 1984 and was completed in July 1987, one year behind
schedule. The delay was attributed to land acquisition problems
arising  during  the  construction  stage.   The  third  and  final
package of the village road was the 55 km Village Road Ilb and
the Sg. Dedap road.
3.39    The change in the location and amendment  to  the  township
plan to downgrade it to a service centre led to a redesign of the
road plan and caused a delay in carrying  out  the  physical works
in the village area. As such implementation of the village roads
wa also delayed. Moreover, as the area rs very flat, suitable
sources   of  earth  for  the  road  -eSankmt  construction  were
limited. The only source available in the area, the Changkat
Lads   hill,   was   soon   depleted.   All materials  needed  for
construction had to be brought in through the Bota Kiri - Telok
Sena road which was inadequate to carry the cumulative axle
weights of' the material supply traffic.
3.40    The township area was situated on very low-lying  land  and
as  no  platforming  of  the  area was done, the village roads were
higher than the  lovel  of  the  houses.   In  the  beginning,  the
drains constructed were limited in deptlh to avoid slope failure
and  so  as  not  to  encroach  upon  the  designated  lot   areas.
However, with the reduction of the housing lot size and the
nbder  of  housing  lots,  the  PWD  was  able,  as   construction
proceeded, to incorporate monsoon drains as well as concrete
lined drains  into  the  design.   This  relieved  the  problem  of
flooding of the township area.
3.41    Schools   -    The   6ducation  Department was  given  the
responsibility  to  establish  schools  in  the  project  area.   A
temporary pruBary school with 8 classrooms was built and opened
for the first term in February 1985 with a total enrolment of 309
pupils. Another primary school consisting of 10 classrooms. was
completed in August 1988 to supplement the existing school.



- 17 -
Construction work on a 16 classroom secondary school at Sungai
Dedap was completed and the school opened for enrolment in May
1986.   Construction  work on two blocks of hostel with dining hall
was also completed.
3.42    Hegalth_Centres -   A  rural  health  centre  was  built  at
Sungsi Dedap and is in service whilst another health centre
(Phase I) has just been completed at the new township area.
3.43    Electrici5y SUDPRY -  NEB was responsible  for  the  supply
of electricity to the township centre and the Sungai Dedap
settlement.   Tho  original  schedule  had  to  be  revised  during
reformulation mainly because of a change in the layout and a
reduction in area of the new township coupled with the fact that
it had to be coordinated with the new schedule of the village
road program. This component waJ divided into several phases to
enable efficient task execution and to achieve supply target date.
3.44    The  construction  of  a  33  kv  line  from  the  existing
Iampong Gajah switching station to the new township sub-station
was completed in June 1986.   The  construction  of  the  33/11  kv
main intake at the new township centre was postponed to a later
date  because  of  low  load  demand.   Meanwhile  the   33/11   kv
distribution  main  intake  at  Selat Pulau Kg. Gajah was completed
in July 1988. The present electricity supply for the Seberang
Perak township centre comes from this main intake.
3.45    Water  _gWply  -   The  source  of water  supply  for  the
township is from the Dindings Water Supply sch8me at Kg. Teluk
Kepayng. Water is pumped through a 25 km concrete-lined and
externally   bitumen-wrapped   steel   pipeline   to  a  reinforced
concrete reservoir. The township is supplied by gravity from
this  reservoir  through  a  500  - diameter pipeline.  All houses
and buildings in the township area will be provided with the
necessary tappings complete with fittings and stop valves ready
for meter connection.
3.46    A total of eight contracts  were  involved  of which  five
contracts had been completed covering the construction of the
storage reservoir, laying the steel mains from the reservoir to
the   township  and  laying  of  reticulation  mains.   Two  other
contracts which are in progress involve the laying of steel main
from Kg. Teluk Kepayang treatment work to the Changkat Lade
reservoir and the supply and installation  of  pumping  plant.   As
for the last contract, preparation is being made to call tender
for the supply of pumping plant.   When  these  two  contracts  are
completed by August 1990, the township will have its own pumping
water system from the clear water tank at Kg. Teluk Kepayeng
treatment works to the storage reservoir.



- l& -
3.47    Settler  Intake  -   A  total  of  10,404  candidates  were
interviewed between 1982 and 1984. Of these  the  first  batch  of
300  settlers  was  taken in on January 14, 1985.  The second batch
of 507 was emplaced in November 1988 bringing the total emplaced
to  807.   Although  the  total  number  of  participants  has been
decided by the Perak State government to be 4,000, for the time
being the number to be explaced will be based on the actual
number that can be fully employed by the project which has been
estimated at reformulation to be about 29000.
B. Pr2ject Cost
3.48    Total  project  costs up to 1989 were M$263.9 million which
amounted to 77% of the reformulation estimate and 61* of the
appraisal  estinste.   The  annual  project costs compared with the
reformulation and appraisal estimates are sumarised below:-
TABLE 2: ANNUAL PROJECT CQSiTS      MILLION
'/ear      L981  1982  1983  LM    18   L986  1987  1988  1989  Totga
Appraisal      36.9  82.3 102.8  88.3  62.7  40.4  14.5   2.1   -    430.0
Reformulation   3.6   8.3  26.2  49.0  53.0  68.6  67.8  67.7   -    344.2
Actual          9.6  10.9  31.8  32.3  39.5  50.5  32.9  33.7  22.7  263.9
The detailed annual costs for each of the components are  shown  in
Annex 10.
3.49    An  analysis  of  expenditures by components shows that the
access  roads  and  the  West  Coast   Highway   Section   exceeded
appraisal estimates by almost. 100*. The cost of settler houses
was only 17S of appraisal estimate and 26X of reformulation
estimate   as   only   about   35%   oi  the  physical  units  were
constructed. Palm oil mill construction which was estimated to
cost MSll.O million at appraisal was postponed. The settlement
infrastructure cost wm also greatly reduced because of reduced
sized  of  the  township.   Vehicle  cost  was  less  than  10*  of
appraisal estimate due to contracting out of major on-far. works
like land preparation and harvesting. As for the consultancy and
studies   cost,   the  USS2.0  million  allocated  for  consultancy
serviLces  for  the  preparation  of  future   projects   were   not
utilised.   Due  to the highly inflationary situation at appraisal,
over-provision was made for price contingency.
C.  Procurement
3.50    Certain  procurement  procedures  stipulated  at  appraisal
had to be reviewed during implementation in order to ensure the
smooth  implementation  of  the  project.   This primarily involved
the construction of settler houses and Access Road 11.



- 19 -
3.51    The   three   packages   for  settler  houses  and  project
buildings were to have been tendered by ICE  procedures.   In  1985
Fe1era  proposed  to  have  this  sub-component  tendered  in  five
packages  using  LCB  procedures  based  on  the justification that
low-cost  single  storey  timber  buildings   failed   to   attract
international  bidders  am  materials  were  available locally, the
nature of work wsm labour intensive,  there  was  an  abundance  of
competent  local  contractors   nd  hence  prices tendered by local
contractors would be very competitive with those tendered by
foreign   bidders.    Moreover,  project  buildings  could  not  be
packaged  together with  settler  houses  as  the  two  types   of
buildings involved different quality of work and prices tendered
would be higher if the  two were  packaged  together.   Also,  the
construction of settler houses depended on the intake of settlers
and as such three packages would not be  adequate.   Based  on  the
above justification, the Bank finally agreed to the tender for
the settler houses in five packages and also allowed the settler
houses and project buildings to be tendered separately. Seve:n
tenders were finally called for the settler houses.
3.52    Access  Road  $I,  which  was  to  be   tendered   by   ICB
procedures, comprised two sections, one located in the new padi
area and the  other  in  the  rehabilitated  padi  area.   PWD  had
proposed to tender the road by LCW in two packages as delay was
expected in land acquisition for the section located in the
rehabilitated  padi  area.   The  World Bank rejected PWD's request
and insisted on ICB procedures using the two envelope system.
The road was subsequently tendered in one package by ICB
Frocedures.
D. Disbursement
3.53    Full disbursement of the loan  was  achieved  on  September
15, 1989 when the last disbursement was made. The breakdown by
Category of actual loan amount disbursed compared to the original
loan amount and the revised loan mount is presented in Table 3.
Table 3 - Loan Disbursement
_ __ulljQgi
Category                Original     Revised    Actual Loan
Loan        Loan         Amount
___Aount     Amount      _Disbursd_
1. Vehicles & equipment           9.50        0.71          0.72
2. Civil works other than
settlement infrastructure    34.70         27.44        27.25
3. Consultants' services          4.80         2.50         2.68
4. Unallocated                    1.0           -            -
Total loan amount         50.0       30.65         30.65



- 20 -
3.54    Disbursement was  slow  in  the  early yeers due mainly to
unfamiliarity with Bank's disbursement procedures as well as the
restriction    of    reimbursable   items  to   only   contractual
expenditures.   However,  from  1987  onwards,   disbursement   was
greatly speeded up when the use of SOB procedures was approved by
the  Bank  as   a   considerable   amount   of   land   development
expenditures   consisted  of  force  account  expenditures,  direct
purchases and casual labour wages.
E.  Institutional   Er!r 9Sf
3.55   &E_oJct M 9Dg   -   The  project was originally  under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) which
established  a  project  anagement unit  headed  by   a   Project
Coordinator to umnage and coordinate the project. On January 1,
1984, when Felera assumed responsibility for the project, it
appointed a Project Director to head the Project Office, assisted
by three senior officers in charge of agriculture, engineering
andadministration.   The Project Office was temporarily located in
Teluk Intan but later shifted to the new office complex at the
now tomnsbip in 1987 when it wa completed.
3.56    A   Project   Steering Coamittee  guided  Felcra  and  the
Project    *aage_ent    on         policy     matters     and       a
T.chnical/mplementation   Comittee,   which  was  headed  by  the
Felcra Director Gineral, guided  the  project  managemeot  on  the
technical plaming and implementation aspects.
3.57    The   Project  Director  held  monthly  meetings  with  the
implementing agencies to discuss the operational and day-to-day
running  of  the. project.   Implementing  agencies  involved were
Felcra, DID and PWD while other participating agencies provided
the necessary support services.
Chart I shows the organisational structure of the Project.
3.58    Eembop'm  of    l        ti B_D AgenCies  -   As  mentioned
earlier, the main implementing agencies were the DID, PWD and
FKLCRA. Generally, the DID component performed satisfactorily
well.    The   PWD   component   for   roads   was   also  executed
satisfactorily except for contractual problems and poor weather
conditions which led to delay in project implementation. The
Felcra   component,   primarily   for   agricultural   development,
en-ountered numerous problems in the first half of the project
period  but  the  end  result was  favourable.   Relationship  and
cooperation among the iuplemnting agencies were excellent and on
the whole the project was well-coordinated.



- 21 -
3.59    P!f9rD5o-gOe- ..f_bTs-        -    In   the   early   years,
relationship between the Bank supervision missions and Felera
were not so smooth as miesion ounbers were rather rigid in their
supervision and vigorously enforced what was spelt out in the SAR
without due considerations for requests made by implementing
agencies to review certain conditions to suit changing situations
arising from project impleinntation. It was only later after the
same supervision personnel were assigned to the project and they
became familiar with local culture and working conditions that a
smooth and  fruitful  working  relationship  was  established.   In
fact, the Bank's senior rice agronosist who had been assigned to
supervise the Project since 1983 had contributed significantly to
the  project,  in  particular,  the  rice  component.   Through his
valuable advice and auggestions, Felcra was able to overcome
problems related to large scale mechanised rice cultivation.
Therefore,   for   Bank   to   contribute   positively  to  project
performance, it is important to assign supervision personnel who
are specialists in the relevant fields and who are familiar with
local culture, eavironment and working conditions.
3.60     bnjit-oring-jPA mdogng    -    Project   progrm     was
monitored   by   the   Project Office  and  monthly  reports  were
submitted   to   the   Agriculturo   Division   (later    to    the
Implementation  Division)  at  Read  Office.   For reporting to the
Bank, quarterly progress reports were prepared and forwarded to
the Bank witb updated status reports being prepared for each
supervision mission.
3.61    Accounts__and  Audit   -   Prior  to  1984,   the   Project
accounts were prepared by the Project Coordinator's office under
the  Ministry  of  Agriculture.   Since  then   Felcra   has   been
submitting Felcra's audited accounts to the World Bank and in
addition, since 1987, separate SOB accounts have been prepared,
audited and submitted to the Bank following approval of the use
of SOB procedures for small and force account expenditures.
F. Co     easc e W _ Le     oyeants
3.62    Project  performance  as  regards  loan  covenants  is   as
follows:-
CoveBknt                                      Rat-ML0 rks
a.    Borrower shall employ a suitably
qualified and experienced Project
Coordinator                                   Complied



- 22-
b.    Establish and maintain a Steering
C omittee for the Project composed
of the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Land and Regional
Development, the Perak State
Secretary and other officials
representing all goverment agencies
having Project responsibilities, to
guide the Project Coordinator on
policy matters related to the Project.       Complied
c.    Furnish to Bank, by December 31,
1981, the criteria for the selection
of settlers and the draft agreement          Covenant deleted by
with the settlers for Bank's review          mutual agreement
and coment.                                  between Bank and Felcra
d.    Furnish to Bank, by Decmier 31.
1982 a detailed proposal for the
monitoring and evaluation of the
Project for Bank's review and commot.        Cowplied
a     furnish by December 31, 1981, a
detailed iuplmeintation schodule for
the provision of township facilities
for the Bank's review and coment.            Coaplied
f.     i) DID to prepare a designer's
operations manual covering the
works under the Project.                 Complied
ii) DOA to prepare, by 31/12/84, an
agricultural services operation
manual    a guide for field staff
and to develop the rice Seed
Production Center at Titi Gantong
to meet the requirsvent of the
Project.                                 Complied



- 23 -
PROJECT CQMPLEION REPORT
WAAYSZ
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960 -H)
PART IV: PROJECT IMPACT
4.01    The  project  has  developed  12,700  ha   of   new   land,
comprising 4,482 ha for irrigated padi. 7,110 ha for oil palm and
1.108 ha for cocoa, and provided improvements to the drainage and
irrigation infrastructure of 4,000 ha of existing rice lard
(Table  4).   About 4,000 settler families would be shareholders of
the project, 807 of whom have already been emplaced.
TABLE4:                 DEVELME
Hectarage Developed         At           At         Actual
--- -ehraisL G   CRe_ X
RehabLlitated Padi Area    3,727          4,370        4,035L4
New Padi Area               5,215         4,482        4,482
Tree Crop Area              8,438         7,585        8,218
Oil Palm               7,223         6,464        7,110
Cocoa                  1,215         1,121        1,108
4.02    At full development, the annual  production  of  pedi,  oil
palm   and   cocoa   would   be   73,000,   166,000  and  1,300  at
respectively.    These   provide   substantial   foreign   exchange
earnings and savings.   Rousing,  social  amenities  and  caom  ity
facilities  are  provided  in  the  township for the settlers.  The
settlers' cooperative is already actively engaged in economic
aetivities  such  as  participating in works like land preparation,
field  maintenance  and  harvesting  in  the   agricultural   area.
providing  services  to  transport  the  project's  outputs  to the
processing centres and operating a petrol kiosk as well as a
canteen in the project area. Settler dependents, especially the
womenfolks are also encouraged to produce native handicrafts for
sale.    Other  income-generating  projects  run  by  the  settlers
include sheep and cattle rearing, orchard farming (starfruit and
guavai   and   noodle   making.    All   these   create  employment
opportunities for the settlers and their depeadents.
Apart from economic objective, this settlers' institution has
been established for the purpose of ultimately assuminLg the
responsibility  for  project  management  when the developmont loan
has been repaid and Felcra withdraws from the project, in line
with Felcra's divestment policy.
4  For   purpose   of   calculating  incremental  rice  production  to
determine the economic rate of return in Part V, it is assumed
that the whole area of 4,370 ha can be fully cultivated by 1994.



- 24 -
4.03    The project impact on the development  of  pedi,  oil  palm
and cocoa is discussed in detail in the following paragraphs.
A. Pdij
4.04   flehkjJjta .d_f i   Areas   -   While  Felcra  has  been
monaging the sem-si_tatised areas of Phass 1 and 2 located in
Block   B  and  part  of  Block  C,  the  DOA  ha   been  providing
agricultural extension services to the individual farmers in the
rest of the Left Branch Canal areas. Sinee project oeisencesent
until the end of 1989,  there  have  been  major  changes  in  far.
cultural and agronomic practices such as the introduction of dry
ploughing,  direct  seeding  and  aechanised   harvesting.    These
changes have helped to improve yields from 2.8 mt/ha to 3.7 mt/ha
for the individual farmers in the area and to 4.2 ut/ha in the
case of the semi-estatised areas under Felcra. In the future
padi yields in the rehabilitated padi areas could be increased to
more than 5.0 ut/he subject to the following conditions:-
a)      Continued  application  of  new  rice  technology  by  padi
farmers including the use of new and certified padi seeds;
b)      good water management  practices  supported  by  a proper
field drainage and irrigation system;
c)      indepth   technical   knowledge   in   controlling   pests,
diseases and weeds;
d)      cooperation asong the farmers  in  the  use  of water  and
close adherence to crop planting schedules;
e)      land planing for every season;
f)     maximuS  utilisation of land; and
g)      close  lia.son  with  FOA  to  ensure sufficient and timely
supply of agricultural inputs.
4.05    N Padi j4&Mg   -  Up to  2/87  (wet)  seaon  yield  levels
achieved in the new padi area had only been aoderate and had
stagnated  at about  3.5  at/ha.   Problems  comonly  encountered
included pest damage, land subsidence which resulted in poor land
levelling, acidity, poor water control and the use of agronoaic
practices largely suited  to  transplanting  techniques.   However,
fru 2/88 (wet) season onwards, performance of padi turned around
and, by loan closing in Deceber 1989 average padi yields in
thenow padi areas .ncreased substantially when compared to the
targeted yield at appraisal and reformulation (4.2 mt/ha).



- 25 -
The ave age yields increased to 5.5 st/haLo, an increase of 31l
over  the  appraisal  target.   It is anticipated that with further
refinements  to  agronomic  practices  and  intervention   of   new
technology that the yield potential could be in excess of 6.0
at/ha, especially in the dry season. The following factors have
been found to be essential for the achievement of high padi
yields:-
i)    Micro-levelling of  far.  lots  thereby  facilitating  good
water depth control;
ii)    improvements  to  field  hygiene  and  effective control of
rodents;
iii)    ixprovements to  weed  control  with  chemicals  augmenting
agronomic measures;
iv)    implementation   of   the   "semakan  padi"  or  rice-check
technique  to  achieve  agronomic  objectives  which   will
ensure high yields; and
v)    improvements    to    methods    of   seeding,   seed-rate,
seed-germination and manuring.
4.06    Micro-Le_ellinz   -    Although   initial   macro-levelling
specified tolerance of + 5 co difference in level, in reality,
subsidence of filled areas after application of irrigation water
resulted in differences in water depth far in excess of 10 co.
Micro-levelling had to be carried out at farm lot level to bring
the tolerance level to ± 5  co.  This  greatly  improved  seedling
establishment and also weed control.
4.07    Field__ygie_e _and__dent  Control  -   Excss spoils and
oversized bunds were trimed while weeds along bunds, reserves
and  boundaries  were  sprayed  out.   Keeping bunds, reserve lands
and roads to their  mini-mU  width  denied  rats  breeding  grounds
while keeping such areas weed-free ensured that they do not
provide a santuary for rat movements or intermediate hosts to
pests to tide over the fallow period.
4.08    VgW__ Cl_ trol   -    Orasses  especially  Schinochloa  and
Leptochlos becaee the dainant weeds when direct seeding WaS
practised.    In   addition   to  effective  water  depth  control,
propanil  sofit  and  other  herbicides  were   used   to   control
competition  from  these  grasses.   Broad  leaves  and sedges were
easily controlled with 2,4-D Butyl Ester or Londax.
ZS The yields mentioned in this para are not based on crop-cutting
but on actual weight delivered to LPN mills.



- 26 -
4.09    Mo__Check  Techn_oue -  Under the "semakan-padi" concept,
farm managers were required to achieve certain field objectives
to ensure target yield was achieved. Beginning one week after
sowing, census are carried out periodically to check and ensure
that targeted numbers of seedlings, tillers and panicles are
achieved.   Final  yields  achievable  could  now   be   accurately
predicted right after seedling establishment.
4.10    Tbh_e_Use    Mttorised Mist Blowers for _Sowing.  frtilizing
&_ heical                -   Comencing  from   seaJon  2/83  (wet)
dry-sowing with the "sekinchan seeder" was practised until season
l/EAS (dry) when hand-sowing of pe-germinated seeds into water
was  practised.   However,  beginning  season 1/87 (dry) wet-sowing
of pre-germinated  seeds were   carried   out   using   motorised
mist-blowers   which   greatly  improved  uniformity  of  seedling
establishment.   The  mist-blowers  were  also   being   used   for
fertilizer   and   chemical  applications  which  greatly  improved
evenness of distribution as well as  coverage.   With  improvements
made to farm-level and agronomic practices, yields in excess of 6
mt/ha for the coming seaso, could be expected.   The  use  of  the
motorised mist-blower has proven its effectiveness in not only
improving yields but also has resulted in considerable savings in
labour requirement  by  about  8 mandays  per  ha per season (See
Annex  16  Table  1),  equivalent  to  a  cost saving   of  about
M$100/ha/season.
4.11    CrgXScjeduig  -  Another significant achievement made by
the project management had been the close adherence to cropping
schedules  which  had  enabled two crops to be planted consistently
every year beginning 1986. In addition, 200% cropping intensity
was  also  consistently  achieved.   The  single  factor which had
enabled close adherence to crop schedule was the farming-out of
works such as land preparation, harvesting and land-levelling to
private  contractors   instead   of   carrying   out   such  works
departmentally.   As  most  of the padi planting activities need to
be completed  in  a  very  short  and  also  time  requiring  large
nuabers of machinery at any one tim, farming out such works to
private contractors proved wise and enabled management  and  staff
to concentrate on other crucial activities. Another important
decision made was to abandon the season 2/85 (wet) cultivation
when it was realised that by October 1985 the crop would be
off-schedule. In fact, only one crop had been planted for 1983
and  1984.   By  abandoning  the  2/85  crop,  it was  possible to
consolidate and start the 1/86 (dry) season on a proper cropping
schedule which eventually made double-cropping possible frac 1986
onwards.



- 27 _
4.12    qroppingA...Jngptr   -    Although   targeted   cropping
intensity was 180% to allow for I0O  of the land  to  remain  fallow
or for relevelling every season, it was found that if relevelling
and  any  fam  improvements  were   done   ie_ediately   following
harvesting, and advantage was taken of the dry period prevailing,
100% of plantable areas could be cropped  every  season.   Seberang
Perak is fortunate to have two short but distinct dry periods of
January/February and July/August which enable harvesting and land
preparation to be critically acheduled to fall into these dry
periods. This makes possible the planting of two crops a year.
4.13    TgQ &logical _.IBQg_ya *  -   In   line   with   Felcra's
estatised type of padi operation, the following innovations which
were suited to direct seeding technique were introduced, namely:-
i)   Seed-rite  -   To  ensure  adequate  plant  stand,  between
80-100 kg/ha of seeds are currently being used compared
to  the  recomended  40-60  kg/ha.   Under the Trans-Perak
conditions, it was found that at least 80 kg/ha of seeds
are   needed   for   broadcasting   so  as  to  ensure  the
successful establishment of a minimu, of 200 seedlings/mZ
one week  after  sowing.   Frm   these  500-800 tillers/i2
should  be   achieved   and   eventually   at   least   400
panicles/=2   to   be  expected  and  yielding  6-8 mt/ha.
Another  important consideration  was  the  use  of  fresh
seeds for each season so that only vigorous seedlings
with high genetic potential would be grown to achieve
high yields. Towards this end, Felcra has set up its own
seed-farn to supply its own seed requirement.
lii    Fertilizer  Rate  -   As the subsidised fertilizers (198 kg
of- NPK + 40 kg urea) are insufficient to ensure vigorous
plant growth, the application of supplementary urea of
between 50-100 kg/ha was found to be necessary based on
technical requirements.
iii)   MechuniLsatiog  -   Padi  cultivation  in Seberang Perak hcs
largely been mechanised  or machine-aided.   For  example,
land preparation is now done with tractor-rotary tillers,
land  levelling with   back-bucket   pushers   and,   more
recently, with land planers while harvesting is carried
out with large combines. Even seed sowing, broadcasting
of fertilisers and spraying of pesticides utilise the
same motorised mist-blowers. Mechanisation has helped to
increase productivity and reduce labour requirement.
Seed Production
4.14    At  appraisal  DOA  was  made responsible for the supply of
padi seeds to the Project and has been supplying seeds from the
Titi  Gantong  seed  station.   However,  due to increased usage of
seeds (para 4.13) the station can only supply 40% of the



- as -
project's seed requirement and the rest of the  supply  comes  from
the Crop Production Branch in Teluk Chengai (Kedah) and Bumbong
Lima (Penang). To ensure adequate and uninterrupted seed supply
of   the   right   type  and  quality,  another  seed  station  was
established  at Sungai Dedap  by  Feicra  to   supplement  DOA's
supply.   At  full  production,  total  seed  requirement  for  the
project is estimated at 800 at/ha per season. Meanwhile, about
7?0 of the farmers in the rehabilitated padi areas are using
certified seeds produced by DOA.
fgts and Diseesm
4.15    For  the  estate  operations, DOA has also assisted in crop
protection,  i.e  pest  surveillance.   The  padi area  had   been
attacked by diseases and pests such as the brown plant hopper,
white-backed plant hopper, and leaf cutter, and there had been
rodent   attackz   every   season.   These  pest  occurrences  have
decreased  since  the  implee ntation   of   an   integrated   pest
manogement and pest surveillance/forecasting programme by the
plant protection unit of the DOA. Monthly meetings are held with
DOA and MURDI to assess the pest situation, and to enable MARDI
to present its survey and research findings.
4.16    In  the  early days at the planting stages of the tree crop
area, wild boars and elephants posed a serious threat to the oil
pals  seedlings.   As  a  result,  crop  protection  brigades  were
formed,  electric   fencing   was   put   up  and  the  Wild  Life
Department's  help  sought  to  drive  away   the   elephants.    A
considerable am was expended by Felcra and other concerned
agencies to relocate the elephants to the National Park. As a
result of the  heavy  damage,  seedling  supplies  were  very  high
which  partly  contributed  to  the  high cost of land development,
and difference in the age of the palm.
WatgrMr_ e ent
4.17    lrrigation water is apportioned  using  the  constant  head
orifice (C.H.O.) and the field offtake (F.O.) control boxes. The
quantity of water entering the individual fields can be adjusted
using the butterfly flaps of the F.O's. To accommodate the use
of modern farm equipment on the padi fields, three ma,jor changes
were made which differed from that recoamended in the DID
Designer's  Manual:-
a)      the duration for  peak  water  supply  has  been  increased
from 7 days to 11 days;
b)      there is no staggering in the tertiary blocks:



- 29 -
C)      presaturation  of  25-50  -  of standing water is found to
be  sufficient  for  padi  planting  due  to  better   land
levelling.    Originally,   the   water  duty  provided  at
pre-saturation was 5.60 I/s/ha but following the changes
in agricultural practices, it can now be reduced to 3.85
I/s/ha.
4.18    The depth of water  in  the  field  is  controlled  by  the
drainage outlet boxes (D.O) and, more importantly, for adjacent
fields of different levels, through the strengthening of the
dividing  bunds.   With  the  purchase of land-levelling equip  nt,
micro-levellings were carried out and these resulted in a more
uniform water-depth and plant growth. Where it was possibles the
1.2 ha fields were combined into 2.4 ha fields to facilitate
machinery manoeuvering.
4.19    Field  drains  were dug along the field bunds to facilitate
the distribution of water into the field and for rapid removal of
surface  water.   One  month  after  drainage,  fields would be dry
enough to accoodate harvesters and hence there would be less
damge  to  the  field  surface.   With experience, the field staff
should be able to manage the use of irrigation water more
efficiently.
Ope,.a9      .±_ain__tenance
4.20    As originally planned, the Perak State DID  is  responsible
for  the  operation  and  maintenance  of  the  main  and secondary
canals and drains and the  flood  embankment.   However,  the  main
drain in Phase 12 of the tree crop area has been handed over to
Felcra for operation and  maintenance.   The  tertiary  drains  and
canals as well as farm roads are the responsibility of Felcra and
their operation and maintenance are treated as part of land
development/crop  production  costs.   The  PWD  is responsible for
the maintenance of the West Coast Highway Section, the project
main roads and the village roads. An annual sum of MS1,500 per
km is required for the periodic maintenance of gre.0el roads while
MS15,000 is required for the maintenance of metalled roads. The
maintenance   of   the   township   roads   and   drains   is   the
responsibility of the PWD. However, as no local administrative
machinery   has   been   established  and  while  waiting  for  the
enactment of local by-laws and legislations to enable the various
state agencies to play their respective roles, for the time being
Felcra is carrying out the operation and maintenance of the
service centre.
Padi Production
4.21    Rehabilitated  Padi  Areas  -   Individual  farmers  in the
Left Branch Canal area have benefitted from the improvements done
by DID to the drainage and irrigation facilities in the area.



- 30 -
During the 1/89 (dry) season, a total of 3.515 ba were planted
while in the 2/89 (wet) sesoon another 205 ha which were managed
by Felora were brought into cultivation bringing the total area
in production for 1989 to 7,235 ha (for 2 seasons).   This  is  92%
of the reforsulation target of 7,870 ha and 78t of the appraisal
target of 9,300 ha.
4.22    Total production attained for the two seaons  amounted  to
24,255   at,  representing   en   achievement   of   75*   of  the
reformulation target of 32,180 at and 65* of the appraisal target
of  37,100  at.   The  shortfall  in  cropped  hectarage _  due to
abandonment of part of Block A e a result of the failure of a
consulting company engaged by the Block A farmers' cooperative to
operate the area.  The average yield attained in  the  1/89   (dry)
season   wa   3.36   mt/ha.    Compared   to   the  appraisal and
reformulation  target  of 4.2  mt/ha,  this  represents   an   80t
achievement.    For   the  2/89  (wet)  season  the  average  yield
obtained was slightly lower at 3.34 ut/ha which is 12$ lower than
the  appraisal  target  of  3.8  mt/ha.  However, the highest yield
attained by individual farmers in the area was 3.7 mt/ha in Block
C   during   the   2/89   (wet)   season.    Meawhile  farmers  in
Folera-anaged Phaoe 2 recorded 4.2 mt/ha during the 1/89 (dry)
seon.
4.23    The  actual  production and yield attained in comparison to
the appraisal and reformulation targets are sumarised in Table 5
while the detailed production and yield attained by each block
for the last two seasons are  shown  in  Annex  12  Table  1.   The
increase in yield and production were made possible by the
improvements made to the drainage and irrigation infrastructure,
use  of  farm  mechanisation  for  land  preparation,  sowing   and
harvesting, better water management, and the use of high yielding
seed varieties.
4.24    New -adi   Areas   -    Initial   yield   increase   were
encouraging but had stagnated at about 3.0 - 3.5 mt/ha up to 1/88
(dry) season. Perfor hance however, turned  around  fro, the  2/88
(wet) soaon  onwards.   During the 1/89 (dry) season, the averge
yield attained was 5.37 at/ha with a total production of 20,594
at.   This  compares  favourably with the appraisal estimate of 4.2
at/ha and 19,700 at. production representing an achieveoment of
128S   and   104.5S   respectively.    The  slight  improvement  in
production  despite  the  much  higher  increase   in   yield   was
attributed to a lower planted area of 3838 ha comparedwith the
appraisal estimate of 4,700 ha. Although the total area handed
over  by  DID  was  4482 ha, the plantable area at present is 4,353
ha a there are still some areas that are too low lying and
cannot be cultivated. It is not impossible to anticipate that



- 31 -
TABLE 5: PADI CROPPED AREA, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Cropped Area (ha)               Yield lIt/ha)               Production (ot)
ApPraisal  Reforeu- Actual   Appraisal Refornu-  Actual   Appraisal Reform- Acnal
lation   at PCR              lation   at PCR              latin   at PCI
---------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -----  -------   --------.. -- ........ .......   .............  ..........
Left Branch Canal
System (Individual)
Wet season                   4,900     4,370    3,720       3.8       4.0      3.34    18,600    17,480   12,443
Dry season                   4,400     3,500    3,515       4.2       4.2      3.36    18,500    14,700   11,812
Sub-total              9,300    7,870    7,235                                  37,100    32,180  24,255
.... ----   .......                                            _.. 
Cropping Intensity (1)         190       180
Right Branch Canal
Systee (Estate)
get season                   5,200     3,505    4,353       3.8       4.2   4.75 /a  19,800    15,000  20,695
Dry season                   4,700     3,585    3,838       4.2       4.2   5.37 /a   19,700    15,000   20,5O
Sub-total             9,900     7,170   8,191                                   39,500    30,000  41,289
Cropping Intensity (1)         190       160      200 /b
TOTAL               19,200    15,040   15,426                                 76,600   62,180  65,544
/a These are actual wet yields in 1989. The dry yield equivalent
is 3.7 at/ha for the wet season and 4.1 it/ha for the dry
season as shou in Annex 12 Table 3.
/b Vet season area is larger than dry season area due to nev area
being included under the wet season.
Cropped



- 32 -
with further improvement made to the drainage, the whole area
could be cultivated at some future dateL§.
4.25    The 2/89 (wet) seacon average yieid was 4.75 at/ha  with  a
total padi production of 20,695 Ut. The area planted increased
to 4353 ha with a cropping intensity of 200*, 10 percentage
points  higher  than  the  appraisal  projection  of  190*  and  40
percentage points higher than the reformulation projection of
160*. The changes in cropping area, yields and production are
sumwarised in Table 5 while the gross production and average
yield for each season since 1983 are presented in Annex 12 Table
2.  The  projected  yield  profile baed on dry weight is shown in
Annex 12 Table  3.   Annex  12  Table  4  and  5  show  the  actual
(1983-1989) and estimated (1990-2010) production based on dry
weight of the new podi areas and the incremental production of
the rehabilitated padi area from 1983 until the year 2010.
B. Oil Pals
4.26    Details  of annual  oil  palm  plantings,  production  and
yields are presented in Annex 13 Table 1 and are sUmarzsed in
Table 6.
4.27    The actual performance of oil  palm  production  froa  1983
to  1968  fell short  of  appraisal  estimates due to poor initial
development caused mainly by severe pest damage and flooding
leaing to a high degree of supplying.
Sal                          Production
Yewr                   Area      Total FFm      Average Yield
Production       (mt/ha)
Appraisal (1983)         680           3,300           4.9
Actual    (1984)         166             466           2.8
8
Appraisal              6,450          94,200          14.6
Actual                 3,176          16,000           5.0
Appraisal (1992)       7,220         158,000          21.5
Projected (1997)       7,110         166,000          23.3
goo0
Appraisal              7,220         131,400          18.7
Projected              7,110         158,000          22.2
L   For  purpose  of  economic  analysis  in Part V, it is assumed that
the whole area of 4,482 ha will be brought under cultivation by
1994.



- 33
Despite the poor performance in the early years, the yield
profile   adopted  for  the  economic  auaiysis  of  the  oil  palm
component (see Annx  13 Table 2) has a higher peak  compared   with
the  appraisal  estimate  because individual block's performanco in
the area has demonstrated that the area is capable of achieving a
higher  yield  than  that  projected  at  appraisal.  In fact, the
average yield by year 6 of production had shot up to 21.3 at/ha
compared to the appraisal estimate of 19 at/ha. Furthermore, a
report prepared by a private consultant on the area stated that
at peak production, the yield could easily exceed 25 at/ha.
Annex 13 Table 2 shows the actual yield profile from Year I to
Year 6 by year of harvest and the projected yield profile.
AnAual oil palm production is expected to peak at 170,000 at ot
flb in l199 compared with the appraisal estimate of 156,000 at in
1992 as indicated in  Table  6.   From  then  on  Lt will  decline
gradually due to aging of palms. The 30 ton ftb/hour palm oil
mill about to commence construction will be adequate to serve the
entire production from the oil palm estate and the capacity can
be extended to 60 tons ffb/hour when the need arises.
C. Cgoeo
4.28    Cocoa planting began in 1981 with 48 ha.  and  by  the  end
of   1989   about   190  ha  had  been  established.   Shade  trees
(Oliricidia) have been established in all  cocoa  areas.   By  1992
the total cocoa area planted will be 1,108 ha instead of 1210 ha
projected at appraisal. Some of the established cocoa ho been
oe- udded  with  improved  clones  to ensure high yield potential
while the new area. are being planted with selected hybrid and
laonal cocoa.
4.29    Harvesting  began  in  1984 with a total production of 7 at
and, at the end of 1989, 186 ha bad coma into production
producing 107 at. Full production will be reached as projected
in 1992 but production is expected to be only 522 mt, well below
the appraisal projection of 1,330 at because of the smller area
and late planting of cocoa. Peak production will be achieved in
1999 with 1,380 at and a yield of 1.28 mt/ha.   A  2 mt/day  dried
beens  cocoa  drier  has  been built in the project area to dry the
cocoa beans. The dried beans are sold in batches by open tender
to ensure that the beet prices are offered to Felcra. Annex 14
Table I and 2 shows the cocoa production  and  yield  profile  uasei
for projection.



- 35 -
PROJRCT, COTI0MN UL
nmLMflQIII
TRANS-PERAR MAR DEVELOPMDCNT PROJECT
(LOAN- 1960-lEA)
PART Vs FIC   AN D CONCIC  anSS
5.01    The derivation  of rice,  palo  oil and cocoa price  ar
presented in Annex 15.  The projected  finacial ex-will price
for pals oil, palm kernel and cocoa are bed oan the Beak's
Januay 1990 cmindty price forecats in  contat  198  dollars,,
djuuted  to  1989 ctant dollars using the Banks Man aturing
Uuit Valu' (WV) Index.   enrally, thme price  ar  mac  lower
tha  tiht projected  at  apprail and at rafofdlation.  Ti
ecnomic price  of ach crop wc derived by ajust g for tae,
dutie ad subsidies ag well as applying  conversion  factor. (as
shsm  in  Ane  15 Table 4) on the finacial barn  stimtes. As
for the prics for r2ce and cocoa, they wewe deived with  a  10l
discout for grade differential.  A gilling  ratio  of 65*
assumed for rice and the finacial price oa  basd  on  the  local
Goveammt controlled  price  which averaged  $496  per at plus a
price subsidy of $165 per at.
5.02    For purpose  of e      ic   alysi,   the   cats  for
draine,  irrigation  and  lad  delopment cotract  hae been
speifically allocated to the n   peadi,  rehabilitated  Vadi ad
tree crops.  Costs for acco    roa,  building, equipmt ad
vehicles,  coaultancy  for  roads.   ad  adeinistration   ad
eingerirg  wer  allocated  to  each  crop  based   a   planted
e and/or frequncy of usage a follom:-
Costs                      Padi   oil   cocoa   Soial
__ - _
(M    M(S)    (S)       (*)
a. Acces Roo               25      21      4        50
b. Access Road II         100      -       -        -
c. Equipment and Vehicle   SO      42      8        -
(For padi related vehicles and
equipment, all allocated to padi).
d. Buildis                 50      42      8        -
e. Administration ad
Enginering           50      42      8        -
f. Consultancy            As in Acces Roads I and II for
cots related to thm.



- 36 -
Conversion factors were also applied on capital costs, production
costs (see Annex 16),  operation  and  maintenance  costs,  and  for
actual costs incurred fr,o 1981 to 1988, these were inflated to
1989 constant terms by using the Consumer Price Index as indicated
in Annex 15 Table 5. In arriving at the economic rate of return
for the agricultural component (Annec 18), the costs and benefits
of all the three crops were included. Both new and rehabilitatedj
padi were  included  in  the   economic   analysis   and   a    for
rehabilitated padi, only incrmmental costs and benefits were taken
into cons ideration.
5.03     As Felcra's land development and  production  accounts  are
kept by scheme or phase and not by crop, the actual development
costs for the tree crops have been allocated at 80S for oil palm
and  202  for  cocoa.   Development  cost  for new radi was directly
traceable.   Costs  for  drainage  and  irrigation  maintenance  and
other DID expenses were estimated at S1.0 million per annum.
Felcra  costs  for  administration  and  maintenance  were  based on
$2.00  million  per  annum.  Maintenance  costs  for  vehicles  and
equipment directly attributed to agricultural operations were not
allocated as it was assumed that these costs were accounted for by
the rentals charged to the development and operational costs of
each phase as and when they were being used. The rentals credited
to the Vehicle Pool Systm are used to finance the pool's expenses
such as drivers' salaries, vehicle maintenance and replacement.
Faru level crop benefits and costs were calculated based On the
whole  project.   The estimated crop production cost per hectare for
each crop is presented in Annex 16.
5.04     In  Annex  16  Table  1.  the   rehabilitated   padi   crop
production budget for the 'With Project' cost is lower than the
'Without Project' cost due mainly to the tremendous savings in
labour cost as a result of changing technology and increased
mechanisation such as the use of the motorised mist blower for
direct   seeding,   fertiliser  and  chemical  application  and  the
increased usage of chemicals replacing manual labour for weeding
and  bund  maintenance.   Labour  savings in water management is the
result of increased canal density which allows water to be tapped
directly from the canal whereas in the past water had to flow from
one plot to another. With direct seeding, the fields need not be
flooded  right  from  land preparation but instead water is let into
the fields progressively in accordance with plant height.
S.  Settlers' Incomes
5.05     Settlers derive incomes mainly from  two  sources,  namely,
wages from working on the project and dividends from the surplus
derived from the sale of project outputs net of all costs.
Additional family income will be in the form of participation in
economic projects such as sale of handicrafts, milk from dairy
farming (feedlot), sheep, fruits and vegetables raised in the
houselots or poul*ry rearing in the backyard (See para 4.02).



- 37-
The  average  annual wages  received by the settlers since 1988 and
tle advance paymnts made to the during festive seasons  are  show
in  Table  7.   However, the advances were debited to the Profit and
Loss Accoumts and treated as an expense.
(MOS)
1W  1W      L~987    1988     W
Annual Wages           3,576   4,213   6,154   5,220   5,618
Advanes                  -       300      568     300     600
Total                  3,576   4,513   5,722   5,520   6,218
Average Monthly
Income Per Settler       298     376      476     460     518
(351)   (430)   (435)   (468)
(Figu"es in parenthese exclude advances)
5.06  For the  derivation  of  settlers'   annual   incomes,  the
financial cash  flow  for  all  the  phas_s  aggregated together is
presented in Annex 17. For the purpose of calculating income from
wages,  it  is assumed that about 2,000 ettlers, the maximu  number
required to work on the agricultural area, derive wages from the
project   but   the   dividends   are   distributed   to  all 4,000
participants. The proJect will be able to distribute its first
mual dividend to the settler from an estimated surplus of $2.93
million in 1991. It is assumed that any surplus msde after all
deductions, including loan repayment and accumulated losses, will
be distributed as dividends. At full development after 1994, the
total  schem   income  from  Iabour would exceed MS8.0 million or an
average of' MS4.280 per  settler  per  year.   (Based  on  about  300
mondays per settler per annum and a daily wage rate of $12).
bnnual income per settler after loan repayment and after all
goveroment   charges   are   calculated  at  about  $5,618  in  1989
increasing to a maximum of $10,094 in 1998 and then stabilising at
about  $9,500.   Total  settler  income  from  both  wages  and  the
shareholding will therefore exceed the poverty line income of
N$4,200 per annum.
C.  Eon  pic_,Rte_of_etup
5.07 At appraisal the economic rate of return (ERR), for the
agriculture component was estimated at 18t while at reformulation
in 1985 the ERM was revised to 9*. A recalculation of the ERR in
1989  constant  terms  with revised estimates of yields for padi and
oil pali shows that the ERR is  now  10*.   The  Net  Present  Value
(NPV) discounted at 10 is MS2.4 million.



- 38 -
The  ERR  for  the  agriculture  compoet  is  calculated  from the
economic costs and benefit flows presented in Annex 18 while the
result  and   the   ERR   by   crot  compared  with  appraisal  and
refomulation estimates are suarised in Table 8 below.
1980 Appraisal
Apprai-  Reformu- At   Comodity Price
gal      lotion  PCR  Projections Adjusted
-- -- ~to_Constant Termn
At Reform-   At
Agriculture                     18         9    10        19         31
Rice                        20         7     6       23          36
Oil Palm                    18       n.a    13        n.e        28
Cocoa                       12      noa      4        n.a        13
Tree Crop                   17        10    12        15         26
5.08     Using  the  1980  appraisal  comodity  price   projections
adjusted to 1989 constant term yield a such higher VS of 31X.
This show that the comparatively lower ERR at loan completion is
due to the lower world comodity prices. The other resons for
the lower rate of return are due to project implemetation delays
as reflected in the long strem of negative cash flow and higher.
cost of devlopmnt.
5.09     The  MRR  for. the  Wet  Coast  Highway   could   not   be
calculated as no traffic counts survey has been carried out to
determine  the  benefits  of  the  Highway.   However,  from  visual
observations end interview  with K1D and Project  Office  staff,  it
was obvious that the construction of the Highway and the new
bridge in the project area waS a boon to the economic and social
development of the project area, surrounding townships and rural
areas.
D. gt acove
5.10     Government capital outlays for  the  project  total  $263.9
million.   The  land  development  costs  for  the new padi and tree
crop  areas  totalling MS75.7  million  would  be  recovered   from
repayment by  settlers  over  16  years  after  10  years  of grace
period.  The interest  charged  varies;  loan. signed  before  1981
were charged at 6 1/2S p.a. and repayable over 9 years after 6
years of grace period in  which  interest  was  capitalised.   These
louis have since been rescheduled and repayment is now over 15
years with interest reduced  to  4x  p.a.   The  interest  on  loans
signed from 1981 to 1984 were waived but in 1985 it was reinstated
at 4X p.a.



- 39 -
5.11     Settlers housing cost for  the  project  which  amounts  to
M$5.6  million  is also repayable at 4X p.a. but over 13 years after
two years of grace period. A religious tithe, Zakat, is imposed
by the State Government at the rate of iO of the gross value of
padi production. The total amount expected to be recovered from
zakat   over  the  lifespan  of  the  project  (from  1981-2010)  in
constant 1989 terms is about M$45.2 million.   At  the  moment  land
tax and water charge are not levied on the project but provision
has been made in the settlers cash flow in Annex 17 to deduct a
nominal  charge  of  $5  per  ha  per season for the padi area and a
land tax (consolidated amual charge or C.A.C.) of $30  per  ha  per
annuM.   In  fact,  for  the  land  tax,  provision bhs been msde by
Felcra in the settlers  loan  accounts  for  payment  to  the  State
Government. An estimated MS9.3 million would be recovered from
water charge and land tax.



- 41 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1960-MA)
PART VI: LESSONS LEARNED AND CONCLUSION
6.01     The Implementation  of  the  Trans-Perak  Area  Developmeot
project (in which Felcra began an a component implementing agency
and later a lead agency) posed a great challeoge  to  Felcra.   For
the  first  time  Felcra  was thrust with  the  responsibility  to
undertake such a big and complex project involving three crops
including a padi component, townuhip development and coordination
with   other agencies.   Up  to  then  the  largest  single  Feicra
projects were the youth settlement schemes of about 2,000 bectare
in size and manocrop in nature. The experiences dream from the
impleaentation of this project  and  the valuable  lmsom   learned
have   given   Felcra  management and  staff more  confidence  and
strength in embarking on new ventures and future challenges.
a.  ipsLooordinat.ign ad Mnaggnt
6.02     In implementing a deelopmt project that consists  of a
number of components,  it  is  esetial  to appoint a           le and
strong  coordinator to  the  project to  emure  smooth  project
implentation.  The         sPera   project mad little program  in
the  early  stages  of implementation  but after  1984 with  the
mplacmet   of  a   more  technically  oriented  and  experieced
anagemt team  the  project progresd  much  more  soothly  md
achieved considerable headway in its implementation. To anure
effective  coordimtion, oter   implemeiatig   md   participating
agencie  providing  the  releat  support sevice  to the project
should report to and be _ae directly responsible to the Project
Coordinator. The budget allocation of these agencies which are
meant  for  the  Project  should  be  provided  for  and   alloca.ted
directly  to  the Project Coordinator's  Office  end not be placed
under the  respective  agencies' overall budget  so  as  to  avoid
pussible redirection of these funds to finance other projects,
especially in the event of a budget cut faced by these agencies.
b. Applicability of Estate System
to Pd_Cltsalion
6.03     The Project has  proven  that   the   estate   style   of
management so successfully aosociated with tree crops is also
applicable to other crops such as  padi.   In  the  beginning  there
were scepticisom from certain quarters an to the workability of
the estatised padi system and indeed the project did not perform
too well until after the last few years but since then it has
proven the critics wrong with the above average padi yields
obtained since the 1/89 segson and savings in labour requirement.



- 42 -
For the successful implementation of large scale mechanised padi
estate, the following factors must prevail:-
i)     Strict adherence to cropping schedules.
ii)     Land-planing every season.
iii)     Good and efficient water management.
iv)     Effective weed, pest and disease control.
v)     Timely application of the opti us quantity of fertilisers.
vi)     Efficient  and  effective  control and supervision of field
operations and privatising of mechanised farm works to
avoid high holding costs caused by idling of machinery
and high maintenance costs.
c. Technical Training and Exposure
to TechnologicalLDSM9lovugnt
6.04    lIplementing agencies should be  responsive  and  receptive
to technological developments taking place not only from within
the country but also from other countries  as well.  The  exposure
given to some of Felcra's technical staff has shanm that the yield
perfornce of padi could be greatly enhanced with the  adoption  of
appropriate  technology.   Learning  frow  the experiences of others
which have a proven track record of succ$ess in a particular area
of operation could open the doors to greater opportunities for
exc,llent performance.
d. Capability of Staff Assigned
19_§BeciaIised_Proiect____
6.05     The success  of  a  project  depends  considerably  on  the
experience and capability of the staff assigned to it. For a
project of this magnitude and nature where the ground working
environment was harsh and hostile, it is imperative that only
capable, experienced and well-trained staff with the relevant
years  of  related  experience   be   assigned   to   the   project.
Additionally,  the  staff  should  be  cimmitted  and motivated  to
contribute to project performance.
e.  Infrastructure Precedes Agriculture
Develop ent
6.06     The    Trans-Perak  'sxperience   has   also   shown   that
infrastructure development must precede agriculture development in
an  area  development  project.   Large  scale development of swampy
tracts of virgin jungle land must be provided with the basic
infrastructure like roads to facilitate ease of access and



- 43 -
drainage and irrigation facilities, before any form of agriculture
development could take place. Otherwise the cost of agricuJtural
development would be too costly and render the econoaic rate of
return to the project unviable. With agricultural development as
an economic base, village developaent could then proceed to enable
large scale settlement of new sottlers in the project area.
f. §QLfr_offures
6.07     As with Felcra I Project  (Loan  2013-MA),  SOB  procedures
were   only  introduced  towards  the  later  part  of  the  project
period. If it had been identified at project formulation that
small direct  payments,  force  account  works  and small contracts
were  a  con  feature  of  land  development,  the  use  of   SOB
procedures would have been allowed by the Bank and would have
accelerated disbursement right from the start of the project.
CONCLUSIQf
6.08     Project objectives of  improving  incomes  and  alleviating
poverty have been achieved as reflected in the improved incomes
obtained by the settlers which were beyond the poverty inca.e
level.   Psdi  yields  attained  are  higher  than that projected at
appraisal and the project has consistently  attained  doublecropping
of padi since 1986. The project as a whole is economically viable
- reflected by its ERR of l0S. In addition the project hes also
demonstrated that large scale mechanised rice cultivation managed
on  an  estate  basis  can  be  successfully  implemented  in   this
country.   Apart  from  economic benefits, the unquantifiable social
benefits and spill-over effects from such a development project
can also be enormous. All the settlers are gainfully employed on
the   pro,ject   and   through   the   settlers'   institution,   the
cooperative, participate actively in the day-to-day operations of
the  project.   In  line  with  Felcra's divestment policy, they are
also being groomed to eventually take over  the  management  of  the
project.
6.09     The  whole  area is almost fully planted and the tree crops
are growing well  and  giving  good  yields.   With  good  effective
management the padi crop should be able to continue to improve in
yields. Presently, there are no major problem being faced by the
project and it is anticipated that the project should be able to
sustain itself in the future.



-      -                                                           Awl I
TRANS-PERAK At   DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
... ........
KEY PERFORNANCE INDICATORS
6oal                                Achieve ments as
Indicator                      Unit     Appraisal Reformulation  Actual           I of               I of
19E1       196          1989        Appraisal         Reformulation
Target             Targpt
..............               .   .   ..........               ..      .  ----             -   ------
Nain and secondary canal  - imprwoveent        km             122           122      34.0           27.9                 27.9
- construction      ke              79            79      94.0          119.0                119.0
Tertiary canal construction                    km           -           -           148.0            0.0
Nain and secondary drains - improvement        km              73            73        58           79.5                 79.5
- construction      km              12            12     192.0        1,600.0              1,600.0
Tertiary canals                                km           -            -          135.0            0.0               -
Ne Rice                                        ha           5,215        4,482   4,402.0            85.9                100.0
Rehabilitated Rice                             ha           3,727         4,370   3,720.0           99.8                 85.1
Oil Palm                                       ha           7,223         6,464   7,110.0           98.4                110.0
Cocoa                                          ha           1,215         1,121   1,108.0           91.2                 90.0
Flood emtnokment                               km              29            29      29.0          100.0                100.0
Project main roads                             km              53          60.6      54.6          103.0                 90.1
vest Coast Nighuay                             km              27          24.3      24.3           90.0                100.0
Settler houses                                 No.          6,900         4,000   1,434.0           20.8                 35.9
Palo oil mills                                 No.              1             1      -               0.0                  0.0
at ffb/hr          40            40       -              0.0                   0.0
Coco fermtary                                  No.              1             1       1.0          100.0                100.0
at dried
beans/day           5             5       2.0           40.0                  40.0
Right Branch Canal
Padi yield - #et season                    mt/ha              3.8           4.2       4.7 (3.7)   123.7   (97.4)        111.9  (.
- dry season                    It/ha              4.2          4.2        5.4 (4.1)   120.6   (97.6)        120.6  (
Cropping intensity                              Z             190           160       200          105.3                 125.0
Left Lranch Canal
Padi yield - vet season                     t/ha              3.8           4.0       3.3           86.8                 82.5
- dry season                    itiha              4.2          4.2        3.4          81.0                  81.0
Cropping intensity                              S             190           180       165           86.0                 91.7
N.B: Figures in parenthesis indicates dry veight.
LPN deducts 22S for moisture and dirt content.



-46 -                                                       AMNEX 2
MALAYSiA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
HANO-OVER SCHEDULE FROM DID TO FELCRA
HAND-OVER
Phase           ---------- ------------------------------------------------
DATE                DATE (Ha)
Area (Ha)    Planned    Actual       Planned    Actual    Plantable
At PCR
--------  -- ---  -------     ........    ------      ----       -----
KEN RICE AREA
3                500    Feb 85      Feb 85            117      124.8
Apr 85     sep 85            383      370.7
500      495.5      495.5
4                376   Jul 1984    Sep 83             134      134.0
Jul 1984          242       229.0
376      363.0      363.0
5                550   Jul 1984   Jul 1984            289       89.0
Feb 1985   Feb 1985           198      198.0
May 1985   Sep 1985            63      260.0
550      547.0      535.0
6 £ 7            1,517   Jun 1985   Sep 1985            202      197.0
Apr 1986   Jul 1986           405      333.1
Jul 1986   Jul 1986           405      176.1
Dec 1986   Aug 1986           202      119.2
Jul 1987   Jun 1987           303      697.0
1,517    1,522.4    1,430.5
8 a 9            1,539   Apr 1986   Jun 1987            202      245.2
Jul 1986   Jul 1987           405      412.9
Dec 1986   Feb 1988           100      190.7
Jul 1987   Jul 1988           710      238.0
Dec 1987   Jul 1989           122      467.5
1,539    1,554.3    1,529.0
GRAND TOTAL                  4,482    4,482.2    4,353.0
Anne2



- 47-                                                            ANEX 3
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION -
PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE OF WORKS
Cumulative Progress
Itea              Unit Apprai-   Existing  --------------------------------------------------------   Overall
sal      Before   1981  1982  1983  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989  Project
Target     1981                                                             at PCR
A. Irrigation Works
Main and secondary
canal isprovesent           kn        122      65.5      0     0  20.3   24.0   34.0   45.3   55.3   62.4    62.4  127.90
Nev main and secondary
canal construction          kg         79)
Tertiary canal construction    kr         125 )    59.4      0     0   4.0   12.0   41.0   60.9  103.5  123.5   143.1  202.44
Sub-total                      326      124.9      0     0  24.3      36     75  106.2  158.8  185.9   205.5  330.34
B. Drainage Works
Main and secondary drain
improvement                 km         73)   155.4       0     0  15.6   42.4   66.5   80.0   94.5   94.5    94.5  249.91
Nev main and secondary
drain construction          km         97)
Tertiary drain construction    km         200      63.7      0     0   4.0   16.0   40.5   50.5   83.8  111.3   131.3  195.03
Sub-total                      370      219.1      0     0  19.6   58.4    107  130.5  178.3  205.8   225.8  444.94
C. Structures
Bridges                        No.         10          0     0     0      3      4       8      9      10     10      10       10
Constant Head Orifice          No.        n.a         48     0     0    10      30      70    108    168    205      205      253
Drainage End Control           No.        n.a         37     0     0    10      67      89    161    196    221      221      258
Irrigation End Control         No.        n.a         10     0     0      2      5      19     27     42      42      42       52
Checks                         No.        n.a          0     0     0    10      18      51     81    118    118      118      118
Tidal Control Gate             No.          2          4     0     0      1      1       2      3      3       3       3        7
Control Drop                   No.        n.a         11     0     0      1      5      11     14     15      15      15       26
Field Offtake                  No.      3,020          0     0    60   181    598  1,083  1,462  2,514  3,141   3,141   ',141
Drainage Outlet                No.      2,570          0     0    60   181    659  1,120  1.511  2,477  2,957   2,957   .,957
Guillotine Offtake 1'-0        No.        n.a          0     0     0      0      0       1      1       1      1       1        1
Drainage Control               No.         40          0     0     0      0      3       8     23     23      23      23       23
Intake/Bifurcation             No.        n.e         2      0     0      0      0      0       0      0       0       0        0
Sub-total                                 112      0   120   399  1,390  2,462  3,400  5,567  6,736   6,736   6,846
D. Fare Roads
Secondary farm roads            km      -           6.5      0     0  10.0   20.0   30.0   53.5   96.8  104.7   104.7   111.2
Tertiary fare roads             ke      -          17.9      0     0  20.0   69.1  105.9  202.3  255.6  322.8   324.0   341.9
Sub-total                                24.4     0      0    30   89.1  135.9  255.8  352.4 427.46  428.67   453.1
E. Flood Protection Bund            kg        29             27.0  27.0  29.0   29.0   29.0   29.0   29.0   29.0    29.0    29.0
Annei3



- 48 -
AMUE 4
NALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AREA CLEARED, PLANTED AND IN PRODUCTION
AS AT 31/12/89
(Hectares)
Area        Area       Area In
Phase        Appraisal  Reforoulation      Cleared       Planted   Production
(Ha)         (Ha)             (Ha)        (Ha)         (Ha)
NEW RICE
3                580             500             496        496          496
4                410             376             363        363          363
5                930             550             547        535          535
6 & 7            1,700           1,517           1,522      1,430        1,430
8 & 9            1,510           1,539           1,554      1,529        1,529
Total            5,130           4,482          4,482       4,353       4,353
TREE CROP
Oil Palo
10                580             531             511        511         324
1OA               455             319 J
108             -                  95             504        504          464
lOC             -                 122)
11                770             510            374         374          152
12              1,270           1,160          1,589       1,539        8O
13              1,490           1,402          1,788       1,707       1,707
14              1,520             830            693         693         511
15              1,100           1,495          1,651       1,651        1,651
Total            7,185           6,464          7,110       6,979       5,609
Cocoa
10                100             101             88          80          88
lOA               100             101             142         90          30
11                240             160             165      -          -
12                200             180            380         320      -
13                200             208        -             -          -
14                180             121            200         200          68
15                180             250             133        133      -
Total            1,200           1,121          1,108         831          186
GRAND TOTAL        13,515          12,067          12,700     12,163       10,148



- 49  -                                                          AUEX 5
MALAYSIA
tRANS-PERAI AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROADS COMPLETED
(kg)
START DATE               COMPLETION DATE
Appraisal  Reformulation   Actual   Planned    Actual       Planned   Revised    Actual
A. ACCESS ROADS
1. Access Roads I (incl. oetalling)            18           17.6      17.6   1980    April 1981  Dec 1984  Aug 1987   Mar  1985
2. Access Roads If                             35           43.0       34.3   1981     May 1982   Dec 1986  May IM    June 1989
TOTAL                         53           60.6       51.9
S. VILLAGE ROADS
1. Village Road 1                             19            18.8      18.8  Mid 81   April 1982    1984    Jan 1985   Jul 1986
2. Village Road 2A, 2C a Chaogkat
Lada                                  53            52.9      52.9  Mid 81    Nov 1982       1984    Jan 1985   Aug 1986
3. Village Road 28 and Sg. Dedap
Road                                  55              55        55   1981    April 1985    1987    Feb 1988   Mar 1989
TOTAL                        127          126.7      126.7
C. NEST COAST HIGHWAY                           27             27       24.3   1980     Nov 1982   nay 1985  May 1985   Feb 1986
A= S.                  .
Annex S



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IJON$ S'TRUCO  II:)N OF SETTLER HOUSES
SETTLER HOUSES
Year    original  Reformulation  Actual No.
Target      Target       Completed
1981
1982
1983                      350            350
1984
1985
1986                    1,117        -
1987                     1266            360
1988                     1267            300
1989                                     424 *
Total       6,900         4,000          1,434
* 144 units partially completed under original
contract which had failed.
Tender is being called to complete these units in 1990.
settlers



- 521 -
Annex 7
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
...... .......... .  ..... .......
WUILDIN6S CONPLETED
Types of Buildings        Appraisal Estiaate  1   Reformulation    !         Actual             a
Felcra   DID Others IFelcra   DID  Others WFelcra   OID  Others
.. . , . ..........------.....           .........    ----  ----     -----  ----  ---     ----
Project office buildings         5   LS         5    1      LS        2    1          I    -
Laboratory                     -       -        11                   I1      I    -
Vorkshop                         I    -                                     I       -
Garage                         -       -        21   -       -      -          I l    -    -
Store                            I   lS         3       1 LS          21       4      1      1  /a 
Peat station building          -          -                           I1   -  -  l         -       5
Grain drying ban               -       -        1     -      -        1      -      -      -       5
Drying yards                   -          -     31  -        -        1I     -      -      -
Ramps                          -      -      LS   O  -       -     lS   1  -        -      -
Staff quarters                 536    122      25     260     30      51   174       47     13 lb 1
Social centre                    I    -       -   l                      a                         a
-----_     -  --- - _     ----  - -- - 5 -     - - -   
TOTAL                544    122     44 1   262      30     13     183     49      14     1
_-_ ___..___  -------
/a    LPN store
lb    10 for teachers
3 for JKR
Building



- 52 -
ANEX B
HALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEYELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
VEHICLES AND EQUIPHENT LIST
~~~,. .. . ........... .................... ..... ......... .... . ... .. ........... ........
Type of Vehicles/Equipment         I   No. at   ,      Actual No. Procured
I Appraisal I ---------------   TOTAL
I Felcra      DID    Others
a~~                                         ~ I   I..      ......    ..
Coabine harvester                                    21 1                         -                0
Tractor 40D, lOOhp                                                I               -                1
Tractor 40D, 70-80hp                                129 1        23               -               23
Excavator                                             31       -                  -                0
Backhoe                                               21       -                  -                0
Ditcher                                              10 1         3               -                3
Forklift Truck 3 ton                                  I       -                  -                0
Saloon Car                                        -      I        1
Rotor 6rader                               1          21       -                  -                0
Nid  ounted 6rader                                -               4               -                4
Vibratory Roller                           1          11       -                                   0
Rear Grader                                       -               2               -                2
tanker                                    t          201          6               -                6
Lorry/Tipper                               I         481          2                  3             5
Nobile Plant Protection Unit                          11       -                  -                0
Pick-up Van LOB                                       31       -                  -                0
Field Vehicles, LOB                        I          31          5                   1            6
Field Vehicles, SEB                        I         28 1        16                  3            19
Trailer                                   1         181 1        17               -               17
Transplanter                               5          2 1      -                  -                0
Bucket                                            -              18               -               18
Notorcycle 125 c.c                                -            -                     5             5
Land Planer                                I      -               3               -                3
Rotovator                                         -               7               -                7
Harrov                                            -      1        4               -                4
Plough                                            -               6               -                6
Seederator                                        -      I        2               -                2
Sprayer                                    I      -      I        6               -                6
Rotoslasher                                I                      2               -                2
-             -
vehicles



- 53 -
AMNEX 9
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SETTLEhENT INFRASTAJCTURE - PHYSICAL PERFORHANCE
Appraisal    Reforeulation       Actual            Remarks
Settler Houses                        6,410           4,000            1,434   See Annex 6
Roads and drains                   LS                    96              55   See Annex 5
Electricity                        LS              LS              LS
water Supply                       LS              LS              LS
Primary Schools                           7                7               2   (Both temporary)
secondary Schools                         3                3               3   (2 temporary)
Recreation Centre                          1 l                      -
Health Facilities                         1                1               2
Clinics                                   3                3
Sewerage                           LS              LS
settinfr



"UECI ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1
actual costs (nu)U
198     1992    196     Igo84       1965 36      296     t9o     1M6     Actual times  ot    cms           fOefarla- .1fswal-
TOW ts
A. in  FADI AREA                     ------- --- ----- ------  ----- ------                   --------           ---
I kbrang  aid Irrigation             -     2,471   3,305   3.46?   4,767   C.M     4.529   1,623   2.494   V1.4N         21.0        18.6           101        2I1
2 laid klewlpst                    2.212   2,069      41       28a            421  1.719   2.52?        54    9,577      12179        9.1             is         99
I WMve  aid lovetigatios               71      21    -       --      -                -       -       -          96       0.30        0.5            100         20
sob-total 1*1           2,343   4,573   3,192   3,45   4CM0    5.230   6.248   4.149   2.546   31.676         39.95       26.6            93         329
3. ff3331L1111131101 AREA
I kaisag  aid irrigatla                      -       -              2,236   2.559   2.661      166    -       7.606       9.64        5.1            17         149
2 Suris ad lavstigatios               15     -       -               -       -        -       -       -         1I5       0.10        0.5            110         34
3 Aeeulalebbltto                      59    -        -               -       -       -        -       -         899      -            5.5              0         Is
AtLad cgaisitioo                      -      -         24    -        300      is    -          24     22       441       3.06        0.8             42         55
5.2.-total (5)          1.634    -          24    -      2.518   2,637   2.663     192      21    9,06        11.02       12.9            92          76
C. IRKE Cw  REA                                                                                                                                                                      I
I Draioae aid flood Protection        99      393     350    1I8   1.202   2,522      33     -        -       4.091       1.67       49.8            219          6                4
2 Lad Deveo,ut                     3,5$4   3.114   5,361  4.101  6.695  12.06    9.719  13.241   6.290   66.I3           55.2         1.1            120        932 
3 Sumevead Isessigation               19       s0    -       -       -       .        -       -       -         270       0.21        0.5            100         54
Sub-total (C)           3,643   3,567   5,711   4.299   1,897  13,560  10,656  23,241  6,296  10.504          51.42       57.4           123         223
O.  Acces  loads hiod. aetalliag)s    -        -      1,664   1,766   4,520   6.007   2,046   1.923   2,388   19,716       27.52        9.4             12        22
f.  lest ftoat Mion.a                   - .          14,617  17,532  10.770   4.931    -        -       -      42.920      47.60       24.6            lo1        In3
F.  Settiler House                      -      -      1,614    -       -       2.102     646   1.654     602    5,619      21.23       32.0             26         Is
S. luuldiogs                            -       131   1.133     471     246   2,563      S19    621      632    ?1.29      13.18       25.4             52         26
N.  Processiag Facilities               -      -                       -        209    -        -         16      221      16.20        12.2             1          2
2. Settleset lnlrastr.cture            -       _       -      1,161   6,295  10,134   6.512  6,796   3.241   35,175        56.49       80.4             62         44
J. Eqoipmet aed 9ebicles                 62     124   1,260      82     141     120      163      91            1,958       6.95       20.2             22         to
1.  Cmsultase  ad Stodies               -      ,356   2,174     690     693     424    -         941     17     6,630       3.63       10.3            Joe         66
L. Adshistuation ad Engiseeia    2,30           500     680   2.91    1,985   2,96    3,974   3,933   4,153   22,70         9.02        5.6            290        322
N.  COPHtOitgois-                                      -       .       -        -       - -  -  -                          28.10      111.4
Subtotal  (0-3)           2,368   2,711 22.200 24,497  24.462  29,067  33.84  16.165  31,633  241,26?          235.83      J33.9            62          44
GR    IOAJI ii         9.566  10,671 31,607  32,29   39,584  50,534  32,649  33,738  U2,672  263,934        344.22      430.0            11         61
Ie sw ot isclude wess road 3 cots vbirb kav bee
inclued in Settlemet IntrastrKctwe.
Emid



Annex 10
MAAYSIA-----
TRimS-PE RU  Ru   VEL     I PROJECT                                           table 2
PROJECT COUTLETJO1I REPORT
DID - AWAl PROJECT coStS
(10
Component                      1981       1982         >83        1984        1985         1986         1987        1988        1989       TOTAL
a) Rev Padi Area
i1 Irrigation lorks              I    -        2,476.560   3,304.853   3,467,234   4,707,153     4.809,300   4.528,600   1,613,263   2,494,334  27,401,297
it) Drainage a Irrigation         1
iii) Survey a Investigation              70.550     27.260      -           -           -            -            -           -           -           97,810
SWIV-TOTAL                      70,550  2.503,820   3.304,853   3,467.234   4.707,153     4.809.300   4,529,600   1,613,263   2.494,334  27.499.107
bI Reabilitated Padi Aea
il Irrigation Works              I    -                       -           -        2,218,481     2.559,000   2,661,433     167.492      -        7.606.406
ii) Drainage 6 Irrigation
iii) Enad Acquisition                    -                      24,458      -          29S,667        77.722      -           24,033      21,003     446.883
iv) Survey I Investigation            14.765                              -           -            -            -           -           -          174,765
SU0-IfliAL                     174,765      -          -           -        2,518,148     2,636,M    2,661,433      191,525      -        8,228,054
r) tree Crop Area
i) Drainane $ Flood Protettion         98,700    393,137     349.538     197,850   1,201,550     1,512,000     337,228      -           -        4,00,o003
iil Survey a Investigation            1J09 0       79,eO0      -           -           -            -            -           -           -          270,200
5IJ- trITAL                    289.300      -          -           -        1,201,550     1,512,000     337,229      -           -        4.360.203
4) Ruzldings                                -         3,5/0   1.137.200       452,100      18,016       -            -           -           -        2,3J7,886
el Etquiont 5 Yides                         60,728    124.535      69,921                  -            -            -           -           -          255,184
IlAt                        ,5951343  3,358,925   4,511,974   3,919,334   8,444,867     ,958,022   7,527,261   1.604,798   2,494,334  42.680,434
DID



Annex 10
RALASIA
TlUJIS-PEl AMEA tEIELOPIEIIT PROJECT                                                  table 3
PROJECI COltETIlN REPORT-
PM) - AntI Om  COSTS
CoZwooe,t                    1982         1'83          1984           1985          1986          M987           988         19           TOTAL
1. West Coast Nigiay                      -        14,677,400.00 17,531,741.56  l0,770,O00.00  4,930,898.81       -            -            -       47.910,040.37
2. Actess Road I                           -        1.064,115.50   1,518,593.59   1, 781.6. 91  1.214.068.84      -            -            -        5.578,t68.84
3. AEcess Road 2                           -             -          247,200.00   2.738,500.00  3,309,000.00    94s,300.00  1,522,000.00  2,387,664.00  11,229,664.00
4. Access Road 3                           -                        317.495.00     363.980.00  2.570.643.00       -            -                     3.2S2.118.00
S. Netallinq of Attess Road I              -             -             -                       1,404,302.97   1,102,204.00   401,145.23     -        2,907,652.20
TOlTA                                1,064,115.50  203.288.59   4,84,170.91  8,579,014.81  2,047,504.00  1,923,145.23  2.387,664.00  22,967,03.04
--
as~



lah 10
NALASIA
TAS-fERl UFA  DEVELOFIEJIT  1031Ctl                                                           Tabl 4
RmOJECT CIPLEJICI REP0it
FELCI - AMAL PRO tt COStS
Cowonnt                        1981           1982          1983          1984          1985           1986           1987           1988           1989          TOTAL
a) New faoPi Ae tand Develoent         2.2)2.120.51  2.069,427.90    4::.136.22     2i,619.77        -           421.174.00   1.719.227.00   2.527.344.00     53,963.00   9,57P.012.40
bI tree Crop Area Land Developuent     3.554.014.35  3.114.352.37  S.3SI.613.93  4.100.684.32   6,694.,99.33  12.068.061.24   9,719,138.10  13,240.873.49  9.289.896.48  66.143,533.61
ri Rehabilitated Padi Area               858.712.00       -                                                                        -                                        858.712.00
dl Settler Ibouses                          -                      1.614.00b.01       -              -         1,101.255.55     649,344.00   1.653.806.00    602,451.00   5.619.862.56
e) Building                                 -             -              450.00     25.039.61     229.8598  2   2.563.344.80    519.364.4      821,000.00    631.730.50   4.790.788.17
ft Processing Facilities                    -             -             -             -              -           208.929.00        -              -           18.227.19     227,156.19
ol [uwpaent A Vhicles                       -             -        1.09,654.16      82,275.50     140,745 35    109.569.14      183,075.50      97.321.40       -         1.702.641.05
tOIAt                    6,604,846.86  5.13 788.27  8.552.868.32  4,235.619.20  7t065,503.40  16,472.333.73  12,789,149.14  18.340.34.89  9,5%.268.17  88,920,705.98
felcts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lekta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Awl 10
NALAYSIA
TRM-RAI AE REVELIOlt PROJECT                                                         1ab1  5
POlJEt COLETIIVIIU REMP-R-
SETTEIEIrI IERASTRUClTUE COSTS
(at)
ACItVIIt                1982          1983           1984            1985           1906           1987          1998          1989          TOTAL
1. sos                             -              -              16,000         150I.OD        10890           84,456       113.316       23.368        645.930
2. HEALtH FACILIIIES               -              -              -               -                            189,494        96,503       -             285.997
3. MTER SILl                       -              -              -              978,861      2.309.668      2.034.569       6S9.662    2.912.473      9,895,232
4. ELECTRICITY SlMT                -              -*                            460,648         93,873        -           2,423,118        12.435     2,990,074
S. VILLAGE ROADS *                 -              -            1,601.500      4,515,407      7.798,832      4,055,452    3,503,000        293,035    21,767.226
6. LAND aChsIlie                   -              -              -               -             442,47?        149,008       -             -             590,477
lOlA                    -              -            1,767,500      6,104,916     10,753,640      6,S11.970     6,795,S99    3,241.311    35,174,936
Includes Ace   Rod 3 cost.                                                                                                                             O
SETILE



tl.ATYSIA
lawS-PEW  ANA KVELOE       M PECI
"MCI COulETIlU uEl    O
REINBUR8EU
InS,,
YEAR
AGENCY     CATEGORY        1991         1982          1993           1984            185           1996           1981            1998           1999            TOTAL
. .                        . -   - -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- --  - -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -    -  -- -- -- -- -- --
DID          I                          -             -              -              -              -               -              -            50,58.92         50s,s5.92
2             -        202,209.27      66,956.66     874.9.79       986,021.89   1.149,630.91   1,701,007.56     471,590.76       71,596.54    6,126,001.37
3             -        143,141.86      88,200.78        -              -              -              -              -                            231,32.64
Sub-total         -        345,350.13     757.157.44     874,988.78     986,021.89   1,149,630.91   1.101,007.56     471,590.76      122,186.46     6,407.933.9J
------ ------ ------ -    --- ------ ------ ------ ----- ------ ------ ------ -------- - - - - - - ---  -  -- - - - ---   -  ---- -   - - _- __ -   -- -
P2D          I                          -            5,439.77        -              -              -               -                                             5,439.71
2             -            -        2.609.439.06   2,172.928.24     601,305.03   2.94.512.39   1.679,745.97      494,244.83     903,345.77    10,906.181.28
3             -            -          613.529.5$     234.501.24     366,724.93        -              -           206.339.03      740.S21.72     2.161,61S.'.
Sub-total                      -        2.628,409.42   2,407,429.48     961.029.96   2.945,172.38   1,679,745.97      700,592.86   1,S43.867.49    12.973,236.56
fEICeRA                      - I                        -                           148857.22        -            170,745.74      34.496.58     305,896.00       659,995.56
2             --                       73.563.13     610,223.90     443.433.59     242,703.00   2.965.526.49   3.117,779.38   2.066,099.24    10,319,328.81
3             -1-                        -              -              -              -              -              *28535b                      289,515.16
Sub-total         -            -          873,563.13     610,223.98     59,290.81      242,703.00   3,136,272.23   5.813.776.36  13,930339.91    11.26,829.51
Al  AGENCIES      I             -                         5,439.7          -           148,857.22       -            170,45.74      34,M46.58      356485.92       716.015.23
2             -        202,208.27   3,551.958.85   3,658,141.00   2.030,760.51   4.337,506.29   6.346,290.02   4.083,614.97   3,041,041.55    27.2514,11.46
3             -        143,141.86     701,730.37     234.501.24     366,724.93        -              -           206,338.03   1,030,036.88     2,682.473.31
GRAND ltAL         -        345,350.13   4,259,128.9   3,992,642.24   2,546,342.66  4,337,506.29   6,517,025.76   4,324,439.58   4,427,564.35    30,6.0000.00
oISIVRSE



- 60 -
Annex 12
Table I
MALAYSIA
fRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
PADDY PRODUCTION IN THE RENABILITATED PADI AREAS
FOR THE 1/89 AND 2/89 SEASONS
Season 1/89 (Dry Season)            Season 2/89 (Met Season)              Total 1989
Planted  Production  Av. Yield    Planted  Production  Av. Yield    Planted  Production
BLOCK                    Area (ha)    (et)        (at/ha)    Area (ha)    (at)         (it/ha)    Area (ha)    (at)
A                            639       1,757        2.75          639       1,815        2.84       1,278       3,572
0 - (Felcra Ph. 11           629       2,567        4.08          629       2,094        3.33        1,258      4,661
C - (individuals)            883       3,029        3.43          803       3,285        3.72        1,766      6,314
C - (Felcra Ph. 2)           420       1,762        4.20          429       1,561        3.64         849       3,323
(Felcra T.  16)        -           -           -              196        658        3.36          196         650
D                            944       2,697        2.86          944       3,030        3.21       1,088   . 5,727
TOTAL                        3,515      11,812        3.36        3,720      12,443        3.34       7,235      24,255
Pady



- 61 -
Annex 12
rable 2
MALAYSIA
I RANS-Pf'E RAK AREA D)EVELOlPMENT P ROLJECT
IJROJECT COMIPLET ION REPORT'
PADI PRODIJC1ION IN 1HE NEW PADI AREA::
Season                      Area        Gross        Avereage
Planted  Production        field
(ha)        (mt.)       mt/ha)
1983 - Wet                   134.3       98.1e .7       0.74
1984 - Wet                   376.S      787.27          2.10
1985 - Dry                   734.4   l,989.56           2.70
1986 - Dry                 1,391.1   3,614.00           2.60
1986 - Wet                2,134.1   6,158.99            2.90
1987 - Dry                 2,095.0   6,413.0/           3.06
1987 - Wet                 3,385.0  10,214.58           3.02
1988 - Dry                 3,562.0   fl,497.02          2.39
1988 - Wet                 3,825.0  14,435.39           3.78
1989 - Dry                 3,837.7  20,5c94.34          5.37
1989 - Wet                4,353.0  20,694.67            4.75
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _-- - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 62 -                              Annex 12
table 3
MALAYSIA
I RANS-PEHAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROCJEC-I
PRoJECT COMPLETION RE POR r
Pro.iected Yield Profil e
Padi
Year           Dry           Wet
Season        Season
1983            -C. SE:
.1984                          1.64
1985             2.11
1986             2.03          2.26
1987             2.39          2.36
1988             1.86          2.95
1989             4.19          3.71
1990             4.30          3.75
1991             4.40          3.85
1992             4.50           4.0
1993             4.60           4.1
1994             4.65           4.2
1995             4.70           4.2
Note: 1983-1989 figures are derived from actual
gross yields less 22% for LPN deduction
paditab3



NAILAYSIA                                                                                                   Annet 12
IR41S PEIUA AREA KVELOC41 PROJECT
PROJECT COPIIETION REPORT                                                                                          Table 4
AMNA  PADI PIOUCTION                                                                                              (PaMe 1
(Si)
1983     94         1 1988 1986          1980 198e             1189       190        199        1          1          1          1995       19"6       1997
A. Iev PIdl Area
Dry Season
Cropmed Area (ha)                           -         734.4  1.391.1    2.095.0   3,562.0    3.037.1   4.353.0    4.353.0   4,353.0    4,353.0    4,482.0    4.482.0   4,482.0   4,482.0
Averaqe liold (at/ha)              -        -          2.11      2.03       2.39       1.86       4.19       4.30       4.40       4.50        4.60       4.65       4.70       4.70       4.70
Production (et)                    -        -         1,550     2,824      5.007      6.625      16,080     18,718     19,153     19,588     20.024     20.84      21,065     21.065     21.065
Net Season
Cropped Area (ha)                 134.3   376.5       -       2.134.1    3,385.0    3,825.0   4.353.0   4.353.0    4.353.0   4,353.0    4,353.0   4,482.0    4,482.0   4,482.0    4,482.0
Aeiwage Yield (et/hal              0.58     1.64      -          2.26       2.36       2.95        3.71      3.75        3.85        4.0        4.3        4.2        4.2        4.2        4.2
Production lIt)                     /R       617          0     4,823      7,989     11.284      16.150    16,324     16.759     17,412      17,847     18,824     18,824     18.824     18,824
TOMAl P@oUCTIoN ltt                  78      617      I.S50     7,647     12.996     17,?09     32.230     35,042     35.912     37.001     37,871     39.666     39,890      39.890     39,890
8. Rehabilitated Aea
lrnetnlal Pr.duttion (of) /I       -                                       ,915       2.295     11,415     12,462     14.880     16.173     18,880     19.760      19,760     19,7/6     19,760
TOTAl  RENARI  N FIF  PADOt AREA     70      617      I,550     7,.647    14.971     20.204     43,645     47,504     50,792     53,174     56.751     59.426     S9,650     59.650      59,650
/I  PIea.e reter to Anne: 12 lable S
Rentet it'



Arnnex 12
Table 4
(Paqe 2)
1998       1999       200o       200l       2082        2003       2004       2005       2006        2007       2008       2009        2010
A.  en Padi Area
Dry Season
rCropped Apea lhai               4.492.0    4.482.0    4.482.0    4.402.0    4,482.0    4,42.0    4,482.0    4,487.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0
Averae iteld lot/hal                4.;0        4 70       4.70       4.70        4.70       4.10       4.70       4.70        4.70       4.70       4.70       4.10        4.70
Produ(tion (it)                   21,065      21,065     21.065     21,065      21,065     21,065     21,065     21,065      21,065     21,065     21.065     21,065      21.065
Net Season
;rowped Area tha)                4,482.0   4.412.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,482.0    4,42.0    4,482.b    4,48? .
Averaqe field (utthba                 4.2        4.2        4.2        4.2         4.2        4.2        4.2        4.2         4.2        4.2        4.2        4.2         4.2
Produrtion lit)                   18.824      18.824     18,824     18.824      M8.OM4     1t.824     18,824     18.824     18,824      18,824     18.824     18.824      18,824
tritAl PRODMC1ION (stl            39.890      39,80      39,890     39."O      3.890       39.R9t     39,890     39,890     39,890     39,89o      39.890     39,890     39.890
I. Rehabilitated Area
... . ....   ... .
Inrrearntal Produttion 'itl /I    10,1?60     19,60      10.1 60    19);6O     19.760      lMl?be     19,760     19,760     19,760     19.60      I0,760     19,760     29,760
TOTAt RPHAS t MEN PADDY ARtA      5S.650     s9.e.50     59,650                59,50      59.650      59,650     59,650     59.650     59.650      59,650     59,658     59,650



- 65 -
Annex 12
MALAYSIA                                                      Table 5
TRANS-PERAK 4REA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       -------
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REHABILITATED PADI AREA - INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
1987      1988        1989       1990       1991        1992       1993  1994-2010
Withou'. Project
Cropped Area (ha)
dry season               1,200     1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200
wet season               3,000     3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000       3,000
Total                   4,200      4,200      4,200       4,200      4,200       4,200      4,200       4,200
Yield (et/ha)
dry season                 3.2       3.2         3.2        3.2        3.2         3.2        3.2         3.2
met season                 3.0       3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0
Production (et)
dry season              3,840      3,840      3,840       3,840      3,840       3,840      3,840       3,840
wet season              9,000      9,000      9,000       9,000      9,000       9,000      9,000       9,000
Total                  12,840    12,840      12,840      12,840     12,840      12,040     12,840      12,840
'ith Project
Cropped Area (ha)
dry season              3,280      2,875      3,515       3,515      3,600       3,600      3,600       3,600
wet season              3,280      2,875      3,720       3,720      3,900       4,035      4,150       4,370
Total                   6,560      5,750      7,235       7,235      7,500       7,635      7,750       7,970
Yield (at/ha)
dry season                 3.1       2.6        3.4         3.6        3.8         4.0        4.2'        4.2
wet season                 2.9       2.7        3.3         3.4        3.6         3.8        4.0         4.0
Production (at)
dry season             10,200      /,335     11,812      12,654     13,680      13,680     15,120     15,120
wet season              9,615      7,800     12,443      12,648     14,040      15,333     16,600      17,480
Total                  19,815    15,135      24,255      25,302     27,720      29,013     31,720     32,600
Intreaental Production     6,975      2,295     11,415      12,462     14,880      16,173     18,880      19,760
invest



O          a      ± X
to       w                                                                     I
a~~~~~~~N                                               -~ -                  I  
-:                                                             !-    i  !~~~-:
-  I                                                                               I i                l   IiI    -
-,   N)                                                                                               *9   . -,.   
je *   - -  iaXe *                                                                                      !
o 8 8 , ~~~~~~~~~~*                                             I     I 
i       )                           S                                         *  S         1   ° -i   
i~~~~~~~~~~ 10 i                                                              It .
-~~~~~~X>. :3. 
~~~~a*    *     -   , 
'4                                                                               .     AImv      o9!, 'i
*0                             1       lw4 _)   _I    V  *   *
i4      - o   °                                                   
i-    - _                        $o-  -       *g!s  
, Go_go*                                                                       : tw   
_                                                              -  * £_ 



bAe  13
table I
(Page 2)
4nnual Oil Palm Plantings, Prodction and Yield
Plantino   Area     Iear                                                        Projected Production (it)
oat r  Planted    Of    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Ha)    Harvest      1998    1999    2000    2001    20e2    2003    20           205    2006    2007    2009    2009   201
14-08i      It.6   J934      *3486   3,403    3.320    3.237    3.154    3,071    2,988   2,905   2.822   2,739   2.656   2.656   2,656
1481182     107   1985        2,301    2.24?    2.1°4   2.140   2.087   2,033   1,980    1,926    1.873    1.814   1.766    1.712   1.712
lIPB2I83    246   193         5.412    5.289    5,16     . 5.043   4,920   4.797   4.674    4.551    4,428    4,305   4.182   4.059   3.936
1'83I84    453   198,       10,193   9,966    9.740   9,513   9.287   9.060   8,834    8,607   8.381    8.154    7.928    7.701   7.475
14S5     2.204    1988      50,b92   49.590   48.488   47.386   46,284   45,182  44,080  42.978   41,876  40.774  39,672   38.s70  3r,468
1986     2.433    1989      57.176  S5.959  54,743   53.526  52.310  51.093  49,a77   48.660   47.444   46,227   45,011   43,794  42.570
1487     1.040    19Q0      26.160   25.615   25.070   24.525   23.490   23.435  22,890   22.345   21,80    21.255  20.710  20,165  19.620
1988       182   1441        4,368   4.368    4.2!7   4.186    4.095    4.004   3,913    3,822    3.731    3,640   3.549    3.453   3.367
149         98   1942        2,254   2.352   2.352    2.303   2.754   2.205   2,156   2,107   2.058   2.009   1,960   1,911   1.162
19"        131   1913        2.017   3.013   3.144   3,144    3.079   3,013   2,948   2.882   2,317   2.7S1    2.686    2,620  2.555
Strd lotal         7.110             164,857  161,802  158,493  155,003  151.448  147.893  144.338  140.783  137.228  133.673  130.118  126.646 123,228
Hetartae planted Wha                   7.110    7.110    .110    7,110    7,110    7,110   7,110    7.110    7,110    7.110    7.110    7.110   7,110
Average annual field (mt/hal          23.19    22.76   22.29   21.0    21.30   20.90   20.30    19.30   19.30    18.80   18.30   17.81   17.33
-- . - . -   - . -   .   .   - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- -   -; - - -- -   -- - - - -- - - -- - . -- - . -- - - -- - - -- - -  - - - -



- 68 -
Annex 13
rable 2
MALAY SIA
rRANS-PERAK A REA DEVELOPMENT FPROJECT
PROJEH.U T CO:::MPLETIC(IN RtPEP(R T
ProJieXted Yield Protile
QIL PAl M
Ac:tual Yield
Year From       Year of        Projected   ---------------
Planting      Production        Yield         BY Year of
(mt/ha)       Production
I              -
3              1                    3.0             2.9
4              2                    5.0             4.9
3.0           7.8
6              4                   13.0           13.2
7              5                   17.0           12.2
:3             6                   21.5           21.3
9              7                   23.0
If             a                  24.0
11             9                  24.0
12             10                 23.5
13             11                 23.0
14             12                 22.5
15             13                 22.0
16             14                 21.5
17             15                  21.0
18             16                 20.5
19             17                 20.0
20             18                  19.5
21             19                  19.0
22             20                  18.5
23             21                  18.0
24             22                  17.5
25             23                  17.0
26             24                  16.5
27-30          25-28                 16.U
-- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -_
OPPROFIL



AnI  14
WUYSIA                                                                           Table I
TRANS-PERAK ARDEVELOPHET PROJECT
PROJECT COlPlEETHO  EPORT                                                                (Page 1)
Annval Cocoa Plantings, Production and Yields
Planting  Area      Year               Actual Prmduction (at)       .                 Projected Production (at)
Year  Planted      Of   -------------------------------------- ;--------------------------- - -            - -------------------- - ----
(Ha)   lHrvest  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988   1989  I  1990    1991    1992    1993    1994             195       199        m7
1I01        45   1984                                             , 53.10   55.35   58.05   58.05   55.35    53.10    50.40    47.70
1983        43   1986                                              I 38.70   45.58   50.74   52.89   55.47    55.47    52.99    50.74
1984        30   1988                                                16.80   21.90   27.00   31.80   35.40    36.90    38.70    38.70
1o.85       68   1989                                                23.12   38.08   49.64    61.2   72.08    80.24    83.64    87.72
1986/88      321   1990I 54.57   109.14  179.76  234.33   288.9   340.26   378.78   394.83
1988/89      324   1991                                                    0   55 08  110.16  181.44   236.52    291.6   343.44   382.32
J990       277   1992                                                                 47.09   94.18   155.12   20.21   249.30   293.62
Grand To   1,108             7.15  16.06  37.40 29.68  24.67  107.04 1186.29   325.13  522.44  713.89  89.84  1,059.78  1,197.15  1,295.63
Area In production (ha)        45    45    88    88   118    186     507          831   1,108   1,108   1,108    1,108       1,108    1,108
field tot/ha)               0.16  0.36  0.43  0.34  0.21   0.58    0.37    0.39    0.47    0.64    0.81             0.%       1.08     1.17
N.8: Fiqures trou 1984-1989 are actual production.
Cocna



AuR    14
Table I
(Pop 2)
Planting   Area      Year                                                                  ProjecteiJ Production (at)
Year   Planted      Of    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
(Ha)    Harvest       1998      1999      2000      2001       2002      2003      2004      2005     2006     2007      2008     2009     2010
1931         45    1984       45.00     42.30      39.60     36.90     34.20     31.50     28.80     26.10    23.40    20.70    18.00    18.00    18.00
01Q3         43    1986       48.16     45.58      43.00     40.42     37.84     35.26     32.68     30.10    27.52    24.94    22.36    19.78    17.20
1984         30    1988       36.90     35.40      33.60     31.80     30.00     28.20     26.40    24.60    22.80    21.00    19.20    17.40    15.60
1985         69    19I9       a7.72     83.64     80.24      76.16     72.08        68     63.92     59.84    55.76    51.68      47.6    43.52    39.44
1986/88       321    1990      414.09    414.09    394.83    378.78    359.52    340.26        321    301.74   282.49   263.22   243.9%    224.7  205.44
1988/89       324    P91       398.52    417.96    417.9%    398.52    382.32    362.98    343.44        324   304.56   285.12   265.68   246.24    226.8
1990        277    1992      326.86    340.71    357.33    357.33    340.71    326.86    310.24   293.62   277.00   260.38   243.76   227.14   210.52
Grand To    1,100            1,357.25  1,379.68  1,366.56  1,319.91  1,256.67  1,192.96  1,126.48 1,060.00   993.52   927.04   860.56   796.78   733.00
Area In -7oduction (ha)         1,108      1,108     1,108     1,108     1,108     1,188     1I 108 10           18    1,108    1,108    1,108    1,108
Yield (mt/ha)                    1.22      1.25       1.23      1.19      1.13      1.08      1.02      0.%      0.90      0.84     0.78     0.72     0.66



- 71 -
Annex 14
rable 2
MAl..AVY.A
I MAN- l'-KAK AREA 1t)LVtL.OPMENrT PROJECT
z:)^[L.- I' I:)MIrIPLTTI(:JN IREPORT
I-rn I(c tod   Y i.ldl Protilt?
(JG(JA
nt/t:ha)
Actual Yield
Year From          Year F1 r om        Projected-                  -
Plant.i-c:P F'raduc t.i on              Yield              By Year of
(mt/ha)            Production
j                   1.                     0.1/                  .20
4                  2                       0.34                 0.33
3                  ;                       0.56                 0.43
4                      0. 73                U.34
/                                          0, 0.90              0.21
1.06                0.87
.,  ,7                 1.10
I U                r13                     1.23
1i1                -O                      1.29
12                 10                      1.29
1.3                11                      1.23
14                 121 1. 11
15                 1  i                    1.12
14                     1.06
17/                15 .;                   1.00
1::  16                0.94
19                 1/                      U. a8U
20                 13                      0 . 8i:2
.21                1w?9                    0.76
22                 20                      U.70
23                 21                      0.64
24                 22                     0U. 513
25                 23                      0.52
2hb                24                      0.46
27-30              25-28                      0.40
_____.______--             .  -  -_ - _ _ _ _    - -__________
oppcoc:oa



Anl 
tlWjtSl Aff IEROPIll MIECltO 
Etm   l Cla LEIIhIu REPO  T                                                                                  -
(Page 1)
Eissu     mm  ptci svlUIEi
adi                                       1991       982        3     1984       1965     1996     1987     196M198    6       1990     389      12       1993     1984      1995 9M9%
In Us53too
txort prite, 55 broion,/)
F.O.B. 0 nD ok                           633      389      378      351        297      246      246      300      321       271      249      223      231       231      231      228
Srode differential lIm  lo:)                570      350      340      316        267      221      221      270      289       244      224      201      208      208       208      205
km ea tl    ins rance                      30       30       30       30         30       30       30       30       30        30       30       30       30        30       30       30
C.l.F. price, Port Elan,                    600      380      370      346        297      2S1      251      30        319      274      254      231      238       238      238      235
ForeigEcatngeh ate                          2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3        2.6      2.6      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7
C.lF. Port King                           1.379      874      851       76        773      654      679      810      961       740      686      623      642       642      642      635
Port bAdiog                                  14       14       14        14        14       14       14       14       14        14       14       14       14        14       14       14
transOrt cost, Port lig to !poj              20       20       20       20         20       20       20       20       20        20       20       20       20       20        20       20
liolesale pritce, IpoA                    1,413      908      985       3         8o7      688      713      84        8        774      720      657      676       676      676      669
tess transort, proect area to IpoII          16       16        16       16        16       16       16        16       16       16       16        16       16       16       16       16
Es oill rice price project area           1.397      892      869       814       791      672      697      829       879      758       0       b41      60        660      660      653
Padi equivalent                             9"       580      565      529        514      437      453      539       571      492      458      417      429       429      429      424
lillingt ost /2                              57       57       57        57        57       57       57       57        57       57       57       57        57       57       57       57
Er-gill cadi price /3                       851      523      508      472        457      380      396      48       s14       435      401      360      372       372      312      367
/1  1I8D's Jan ry 1990 CotWdit, Prices and price projectionr io
constant IM dollars adjusted to consstant 1989 dollars
using PIUV index.
12  Adjusted free linanrial price using the standard coersion
factor of 0.88.
/3 Deterinsed by ajostiug financial base estimate using standard
conmvrsion factors in Annel 15 lable 4.
peOov 'cP



Annel 15
Table I
(Pagp 2)
Padi                                     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007          2008     2009     2010
In US$Iton
Export price, 53 broken,/I
F.O.0. Bangkok                         228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228      228
Grade differential (less 101)             205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205      205
Ocean freight & insurance                  30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30       30
C.I.F. price, Port llang                  235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235      235
In "$/ton
Foreign Exchange Rate                     2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7
C.l.F. Port llang                         635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635      635
Port handlinq                              14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14       14
lransport cost, Port Klang to Ipoh         20       20       28       20       20       20       20       20      20        20       20       20       20       20
Wholesale price, Ipoh                     669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669      669
Less transport, proiect area to Ipoh       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16       16
Ix-mill rice price project area           653      653      653      653      653      653      653      653     653      653       653      653      653      653
Padi equivalent                          424       424      424     424      424       424     424      424      424      424      424      424      424      424
Hilling cost 12                           57       57       57       57        57       57       57       57       57      57       57       57        57       57
Et-sill pMdi price 13                     367      367      367      367     367      367      367       367     367      367      367       367      367      367
--~--           - - - - - --  - - - - --- - - - - - -- - - - - -  - - --- - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - -- - - -     - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -  



anex Ab
I3ALAISIA                                                                                  !T!
RIlM  PEIAU AREA DEYVELPttIl PROJECI                                                                   fable 2
PROJECI COIIPtETIOU REPORI
(Pap II
PAiN Olt PRICE SIRtIIURE
Palo Oil                                       1989    ;992    1993       1994      3985     1986     n87      1988     1989    1990       ;99;      1992     1993    I194      19"5
In USI/ton
l'sia5. 5S bulk. C.I.F. N.M. Europe 11       749.92   591.68  683.87  1,014.11    689.38  A01.34   366.02   436.19    350.88  337.12   357.76       378.4   438.94   438.94   438.94
Orean lrtj0t a insurance /2                   6s.50    60.12   63.25     74.48     63.44    50.25    52.44    54.93    51.93    51.46     52.16     52.87    s4.92    54.92    54.92
f.O.B. Foir llan1                            684.4?   531.56   620.62   939.63   625.94  251.09   313.58   381.36    298.95  285.66    305.60   325.53    384.02   384.02   384.02
In ff5/Ion
foreign Etcbae Rate                             2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3       2.6      2.6      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.1       2.7       2.7       2.1      2.7     2.7
f.O.O. Potl Slang                          1.574.17? I2.59 1,427.43  2.161.15  1,627.44   652.83   846.67 1,029.67   807.17  771.28   825.12    878.93  1,036.85 1,036.85 1,036.85
fEterl Duty                                  393.54   134.49   151.02   S40.29    406.86    0.00   42.33   113.26    40.36    38.56       41.26     43.95    114.05   314.05  314.0S
Port cbarges a transport               IF)   32.00   32.00    32.00    32.00    32.00   32.00    32.00    32.00    32.00   32.00          32.00    32.00    32.00    32.00   32.00
IE)   23.52    2J.52    23.52    23.52      23.52    23.52    23.52    23.52    23.52    21.52    23.52    23.52      23.52    23.52    23.52
Es-fill Price Project atea             (f) 1,349.62 1,056.10 1,238.41 1,588.86  1,188.58   620.93   772.33  884.41    734.81   700.72   151.86   802.99   890.80   890.80  990.80
(f 1.550.651,199.07 1,403.91  2,137.63  1603.92   629.31  823.15 1.006.15    7P3.65   747.76   801.60    855.41  1,013.33 1.013.33 1,013.33
Palo teroel
In 0t55/3.t
Niverian, C.!.F. 3J..                        415.55  352.26   49M.11    734.78    400.42   166.S0   194.02   265.57   250.43   238.05   247.68    255.94    282.08   292.08   282.08
Ocean hteight 6 insurance                     54.13   5l.98    56.94      64.99    53.61   45.66   46.60   49.03    48.51    40.09    48.42         48.70     49.59    49.59   49.59
F.O.B. Part lagn                             561.42  300.78   441.17    669.80    346.81   120.94   147.42  216.54    201.92   189.96    199.26    207.24    232.49   232.49   232.49
F.0.0. Forl Kiang                      IF)  831.27  690.65 1.014.70  l.40.53    901.69  314.18   398.04   $84.66   N45.17  512.88   538.00   559.54    621.72  627.72  627.72
E port Dult                            If)  249.38   103.60   152.21    462.16    270.51     0.00    31.84   87.70     43.61    41.03     43.04     44.76    94.A6   94.16    94.16
felt ctidmes a transwrt                IF)   46.00   46.00    46.00    46.00    46.00    46.00    46.00   46.00    46.00   46.00          46.00     46.00     46.00    46.00    46.00
IEt   33.81    33.81    33.81     33.81     33.81    33.81    33.91   33.83     33.81   33.81    33.81      33.81     33.81    33.81   33.81
fr sil price project area             IF)  535.89  541.05   816.50  1,032.37    585.19  268.18  320.20   450.96    455.56   425.85    448.96    468.78    487.56  487.56  t87.56
tfi   71746   650. 1 s  'JO."  1,s06.J2    W.5'   280.37  364.23   550.85   511.36   470.07   S04t.9    525.73    593.91   593.91   593.91
fresh Fruit luncb h tIton)
201 ol oil £ 4.51 ol Worne!            If   253.84  235.SI  284.42   364.23    264.05   136.23   168.88   197.17    167.46   159.31    170.58    181.69   200.10  200.10  200.10
(El  546.03   269.37   324.92   495.33    359.84   138.48   181.02  226.02    179.14   171.11    183.01    194174   229.39   229.39   229.30
Pruresqlnq cost                        If)   30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00   30.00   30.00   30.00    30.00   30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    3wAM
IEl   26.40   26.40   26.40       26.40    26.40   26.40   26.40    26.40    26.40   26.40    26.40    26.40    26.40    26.40   26.40
Ft sill prire proicti  area            (f)  223.84   205.57   254.42   334.23    234.05   106.23   138.88   167.17    137.46   129.31    140.58    151.69    170.10   170.10   110.10
(IE   319.61   242.97   299.52    460.93   333.44   112.00   154.62   199.62    353.34   I44.71    156.61    168.34    202.99   202.99   202.99
/i  15UD's Jan 1990 Coodity Prices I price projeclious in constant 1985.
Dollars adusled In cofnstant 3989 dollars using M1 indls.
/7 Cowises freight liorlding btaherl - 1S540.00, fioanrial charges - 2.75t ijspte - 0.40t antd corml arrival loss - 0.251.
insurance - 0.401 and norial strival loss - 0.75t
IFI financal cost/price
III ttinn uc cvot/pite. deterined by applying conversion tattors
in Ancer 15 [able I on tbe tinancial estisates.
rconpals



awl 15
Taile 2
(hp 2
Pall oil                                      19%      1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    20        2003    2004    2001    2006    2001    2009    2009    2010
. ----                                 -------------------------- -- --- - --                            ------ -------------------  - ------- ------------------ -------------
In 0151/ton
N sian. 51 bulk. C.I.F. N.M. Furope It      403.1?  403.17   403.17  403.1/  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17  403.17   403.17
otean freight a ijosrance /2                 53.71   S3.71   53.71   53.71   53.71   53.71   53.71   53.71   53.71   53.71 I         3.71   53.71   53.71   53.71   53.71
F "A. Port tlano                            34Q.4&  349.46   349.4b   349.46   349.46   349.46   349.46  349.46  349.46   349.06  349.46   349.46   349.46   349.46  349.46
In  /ton
Foreign Etchange PAtp                          ?.7      2.1      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7
F.0.S. Port llanq                           943.54  943.5   943.54  943.54  943.54   943.54  943.54  943.54  943.54  943.54   943.54  943.54  943.S4   943.S4  943.St
Erport Duty                                  47.19    47.18   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.10   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.18   47.10
Port charges S transport               IF)   32.00    32.00   32.00   32.00    32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00   32.00
(IE    23.S2   23.S2   23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52    23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52   23.52
Et-sill  rice Protect area             (F)  864.36  864.36  864.36   864.36   864.36   064.36   864.36  864.36  864.36  864.36   864.36   864.36  964.36   864.36   864.36
(1)  020.02  920.02   920.02   920.02   920.02  920.02  920.02  920.02   920.02  920.02  920.02   920.02  920.02   920.02   920.02
Pals ternel
In ;st$t Ion
Nigerian, C.l.F. U.K.                       243.55   243.55  243.55  243.55  243.55  243.55  243.55  243.SS   24355  243.55  243.55  243.55   243-55  243.55   243.55
Otean freight I insuranpu 48.28   48.28   49.28   48.28    48.28   48.28   48.28   48.28   48.29   48.28   48.28   48.28   48.28   48.28   48.29
FV.I.F. Fort tlano                           P15.27   1952 7  195.27  195.27   195.2,   105.27   195.27   195.27   195.27   195.27   195.27   195.27  195.27   195.27   1Q5.27    un
In Htiton
F.0.B. Port liano                      (F)  527.23   52W.23  527.23  527.23  527.23   527.23   527.23  527.23  527.23  527.23  527.23  527.23   527.23  527.23  527.23
Iwort Duty                            II)   42.18   42.18   42.18    42.18   42.18    42.18   42.18   42.18   42.18    42.18   42.18   42.18   42.18   42.18    42.18
tt.rt chatps S tvansPtort              (F l   46.00   46.00   46.00   46.00   46.00    46.00   46.00   46.00   46.00   46.00   46.00   46.00   46.0   46.0   46.00
III    33.81    33.81    33.81    33.81   33.81    3 8!   33.81   33.81    33.81    33.81   33.81   33.81   33.81    33.81   33.81
t1 sill P:frp protept area             IFl  439.05  439.05   439.05   439.05  439.05   439.05   439.05  439.05   439.05   439.05  439.05   439.05  439.05  439.05   439.05
(E)  413.4?   43.42  4`3.42  403.42   493.42   443.4?  493.42  493.42   493.42  493.42  493.42  443.42  493.42  493.42  493.42
fresh Fruit Bunch Iltttonl
20fl of oil 6 451 of kptnel            IF)  192.63  192.63   192.63  192.63  192.63  192.63  192.63  192.63  192.63  192.63   192.63   192.63  192.63   192.63  192.63
(F)  206.21  206.21  206.21  206.21   206.21   206.21  206.21  206.21   206.21  206.21  206.21  206.21  206.21   206.21  206.21
frocesstnq cost                       (F)   30.00   30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00   30.00   30.00   30.00   30.00   30.00   30.00   30.00    30.00   30.00   30.00
IE)   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40    26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.4    26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40
Ftslal price  rrtPtcrt a:ea            (F)  162.63  162.63  162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63   162.63
IEI)  179.81   179.81   179.81   179.81   179.81   179.8!   179.81  179.81   179.81  179.81   179.81  179.81   179.81   179.81   179.81



Asz Is
table!X
FRO-FEWI MA MOsUPIr   oM1Ti
PiOJECT CIPtLEtON REPORT
coca NICE stracrIua
roroa (Dry Bean)                                 19JI     hf2       1983      1984     1919 19M6                   19      3        399      1991     1992  1993-95  M996-2000
In UstUton
.. ... ...
Daily average price, lln lork/Ltndo  /a         2.739    2.3M2    2.993     3.330    3.096    2.422    2,133    1.582    1.238       949      949      97     I.046      1.55
tuality differenlial (less 10)                    274      231      2S0        333      310      242      213      158      124       95       95       98      105        156
"rea freiqbt  insoraute                            68       68       68        68        68       68       68       68       68       68       68       68       68         68
F.0.6 Port Kiang                                2,396    2.013    2,S45     2.929    2.718    2,112    1.052    1.356    1,946       786      786      8l       973      1.331
In "/ton
Foreio  Exchange Ratn                             2.3      2.3      2.3       2.3      2.6       2.6      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7        2.7
f.0.I Port aim                                  S,SI,   *.630    5854       6.737    7.W67    5.491    5,000    3.661    2,824    2.122    2,122    2,199    2.357       3.594
Port handlino & transport b              IFI       50       So       50        50       S0        50       S0       s5       so       so       50       50       so         so
(I)      37       37        37        37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       5t         37
El dill price                             IF)    5,461    4.5* 0    5,.84   6.687    7,017    5,441    4,950    3,611    2.774    2,072    2,972    2.140    2,307       3,544
(EI    5.474    4.593    S.817     6.700    7,030    5.454    4,964    3,624   2,787    2.       2,085    2,153    2.320      5,557
Frocessino cost                          If)      350      350      350       350      3         350      350
IE)      308      308      308       308      308      308      308
Processinq naro  ir                      (F l     546      459      580       669       702      544      495
(EI     311       311     3m         455      471      370      337
1I  eill price                           IF)    4,565    3.772   4.873      5,668    5.965    4.547    4.IOS
IEI    4,7as    3.474    S,314    5,937    A.245    4.776    4.319
/a  1IlD's Jmanry 13    Conodift Prices and price vrdi'ections in constant 1985
dollars adjusted to constant 1989 dollars using Mff inder.
lb Port handling is J25Jnt and transport is also 225/et
kc 10 of output price.
(F) Fiawial cost/price
(El Ecl mic tostlprice. determined by aplvinq conversiot tactors
in Anet IS table 4 on the financial estimates.
eutmOtorn



- 77 -
Annex 15
Table 4
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Conversion Factors
Labour                                    0.88
Land Clearing                             0.82
Agricultural Inputs                       0.91
Transport Equipment and Parts             0.85
Capital Equipment                         0.86
Transport                                 0.79
Port Handling                             0.68
Construction (general)                    0.84
Road Construction                         0.82
Harvestins                                0.78
Fertilizers                               0.89
Chemicals                                 0.88
Government Administration                 0.82
operations During Economic
Life of Estate                         0.75
All Goods and Services (Standard
Conversion Factor - SCF)               0.88
Source: National Parameters for Project Appraisal in
Malaysia, M.D. Veitch, January 1986.
factors



- 78 -
Annex 15
MALAYSIA--
TRANS-PFERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             Table 5
PROJECT COMPLETION IREPOR 1
Consumer Price Index
for Peninsular Malaysia
(1980 = 100)
1981                109.7
1982                116.7
1983                120.3
1.954               125.1
1985                125.5
1986                126.4
1987                127.8
1988                131.3
.1 .9t39R           136 .13
Source:  Economic Report, Ministry of Finance Malaysia
1983/4, 1985/6 and 1989/90.
Price



- 79 -
Annex 16
HALAYSIA                                                            -----
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          Table I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Crop Production Budget - Rehabilitated Padi
(MS per hectare)
Itess                                                          With Project  I   Without Project
Contract uperations                                           Finan.  Econ./1i Finan. Econ. /1
O--
Land Preparation                                                  125   103         130   106
Harvesting                                                        148   115         126    98
Transport                                                        104    82          190     1
Sub-total                                                  377   300   1    346   215
Labour                                Mandays  /2
Hlater Management                       2.0   (8.0)
Bund Maintenance                        0.5   (5.0)
Seeding (motor blower)                  0.5   (0.5)
Fertilizer Application                  1.0   (1.5)
Pest Control                            1.0   (2.0)
Weeding                                 1.0   (3.u)
Sub-total                         6.0  (20.0)x$12/sdy       72    63         240   211
Inputs                    Unit  .'plication        Unit
Rate /2         Cost
Seeds                     kg/ha    80 (50)             0.95        76          1     48
NPK Mixture               kg/ha   189 (200) Subsidy  0.62    -                     -
Urea l/II                 kg/ha    99 (100) Subsidy  0.46    -                 I
NPK Compound              kg/ha    50 (-)              0.55        28          1
Paraquat                  I/ha       3 (3)             6.20        19          1     19
2,4-D Asine               1/ha    1.5 1-)               7.00       11          1   -
Furaowq 26                kg/ha    -  (20)             2.25    -               I     45
Sevin 85                  1/ha      -  (1)                 9    -                     9
Propanil                  1/ha       5 (-)             13.00      65               -
Carbofuran                kg/ha    20 (-)               1.87       37          1   -
Zinc Phosphide            kg/ha   0.3 (0.2)            8.24         2                 2
Sub-total                                                  238   364          123   266
TOTAL                                                   687   727          709   752
/1 Conversion factwrs applied as follows: land preparation - 0.82,
harvesting - 0.78, transport - 0.79, labour - 0.88,
agriculture inputs - 0.91).
/2  Figures in parentheses show the 'without project' labour requ--ement
and input application rates, taken froa Reformulation Report,
Annex 3 Table 3.
annexl6a



- 80 -
Annex 16
MALAYSIA                              rable 2
1RANS-PE.RAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PRO'ECT
i'RUJ :XT COMPLETION REPORT
Irop Production Budqet - Mechanised Padi
wost per hectare)
Ltems
Coritract Operat.ions                                      Ms/ha
Land Preparation                                              190
Land Le--ailing                                                60
Water & Bund Management                                       110
seeding                                                        30
F ertilizing                                                   42
Weed Control                                                   90
Pest Control                                                   88
Harvesting                                                    185
Transport & Handling                                          190
Sub-total                                            995    (739)
Inputs                       Application        Unit
Rate          Cost
Seeds                         80 kg/ha             0.95        95
Limestone Dust              2 tons/2 season       50.00        50
NPK Mixture                 198 kg/ha        Subsidy         -        (112)
UJrea I/II                   99 kg/ha        Subsidy         -         (41)
Urea Supplement              50 kg/ha              0.48        24
NPK Compound Supplement      50 kg/ha              0.70        35
Paraquat                    2.0 lit/ha             6.22        12
2,4-D Amine                 2.0 lit/ha             6.40        13
Thiobencarb                  33 kg/ha              2.20        73
Londax                      0.4 kg/ha                125       50
Carbofuran                   20 kg/ha               1.87       37
Zinc Phosphide              0.5 kg/ha              8.24         4
Drat                        0.2 lit/ha            41.00         8
Sub-total                                            401    (518)
TOTAL                                            1,386  (1,257)
N.B: Economic cost in parenthesis.
(Conversion factors applied as follows:-
contract operations - 0.75, inputs - 0.91).
annexl6b



- 81 -
Annex 16
MALAYSIA                                           --------
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                              Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Crop Production Budget - Oil Palm
("$/ha)
Years
4      S        6       7        8      9-10   11-15   16-20   20-25
operating Costs
material Inputs (HS)
Fertilisers                    220     250      280      300     330      330     300      250     200
Chesicals                       70      50       50       50      40       40      30       20       15
Tools                           20      20       20      20       20       20      20       20      20
Transportation of ffb           45      85      135     220      290      350     390      340     305
Sub-total                 355      405      485     590      680     740      740     630      540
(311 )   351 )   417 )(  502        576     623 )   619 )(  526 )   450)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Maintenance                     40      35       35       35      30       25      20       15      15
Harvesting                       5      15       20       20      25       35      35       30      30
Sub-total (mandays/ha)    45        50       55      55       55      60       55       45      45
Vaws  at S12.00/mdy            540     600      660     660      660      720     660      540     540
(475 )(  528 )(  581 )(  581        581)4  634 )(  581)4  475         475
Total Operating Costs          895   1,005   1,145   1,250   1,340   1,460   1,400   1,170   1,080
4786 )   879)4  998 )(1,083 )(1,157  (14,257 )(1,200 )(1,001 )   925)
N.B: Economic cost in parentheses (derived by applying conversion factors of
0.89 for fertilizers, 0.88 for chmeicals, 0.90 for tools, 0.79 for
transportation and 0.88 for labour).
cropbgt



- 82 -
Annex 16
HALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT                                 Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Crop Production Budget - Cocoa
(N$/ha)
Years
4       5       6        7       8       9-10   11-15   16-20   21-25
Operating Costs
Haterial Inputs (H$)
Fertilisers                   640      b40     640      640     640     640      640     640      640
Chesicals                     250      250     200      200     150      150     120     120      120
Transportation of cocoa
beans                          5        5      10      10       15       15      20      20       20
Sub-total                 895     895      850     850      805     805      780     780      780
793 )(  793 )(  753 )f  753 )(  713 (  713 )(  691 )(  691 )I  691)
Labor Inputs
(ian-days/ha)                  55      55       55      55       60      60       60      60       60
Wages at S12.00/ady           660     660      660     660      720     720      720     720      720
581 )(  581 )(  581 )(  581 )(  634 )(  634 )(  634 )(  634 X(  634)
Total Operating Costs       1,555   1,555   1,510   1,510   1,525   1,525   1,500   1,500   1,500
(1,374 )(1,374 )(1,334 )(1,334 )(1,347 )(1,347 )(1,325 )(1,325 )(1,325
N.f: Econosic cost in parentheses (derived by applying conversion factors of
0.89 for fertilizers, 0.88 for chesicals, 0.79 for transportation
and 0.88 for labour).
bgtcocca



NlkAYSIA                                                                    ADM  17
JRANS-PEW  RUEA KVIEt81I PFOJECt
PROECT tCftEEION REPORT                                                              (FMes 1)
Settlers CasA  Flu
2S'000)
1985    1986    1927      1988    1989    199D      1991     1992      93       1i94     195S     1996      1997     19C.     199
1. REWfIIIJI
1.1 Fadi
total Production lot)                                                              35.042   35,912   37,901  37.871   39.666   39.890   39,890   39D,0    39.89e   39.89D
Sal"e  Value al tSrdOIl                   1,399   1.801   6.573    9.60.   25,ttl  2.1?3   23,702   24.421   24.995   26.180   26.327   26.327   26.327   26.327   26.327
Flo Frodscteia  (Idl                                                               49,257    5,547  10.971  128,048  148,445  160.555  166,003  166.743  164,057  161.802
Sales Value Illtl                           374     500   1,211    2.63,   6,192   5,61S    9.519   14,641   20,872   24,197   2s.047   25.0R6   26,012   2S,71^   25.2t1
2.3 Cocoa
lotal Production ()tu                                                                 186       32S      522      714       899    1,060    1.197    1,296    1,357    1.380
Sales Value (I21)                                                                     280       490      819    1,227    1,S45    1.822    3.390    3.670    3.843    3.908
VItA  RfvEAtt                                 1.773   2.301   7,184   12,?44  21.903  29,023   33.711   39,881   47.094   51,922   53,196   55,613   56,009   S5.888   55.476
2. Lapeoses
2.1 PFruution  eosl ltaterials                  878   3,6J41    ,097    5.714  14.770  14.080   14,30    14.520   15.300   IS,SS   IS ,363   15.342   15.173   15,359   IS,326
- tabour                 1,073   1.264   1.546    4,213   4,534   4,930    6,128    7,1S    7.518    7,681    8,46         8,55      8.S75    8.575    8.S7$
2.2 lakat (IC! of padi sa!l% valuel             140     180     657       961   1,571   2,313    2,370    2.442    2,500    2,618    2.633    2.633    2.633    2,633    2,633                               co
2.3 later charqes and land tax                                   106      186     106      420      420      420       420      425      42S       425      425      425       425
2.4 Advanes                                              9       [ 170    242     484
2.5 Sub-total                                 2.,01   5,175   7.576   11.316  21,465  21,743   23,218   24,49?   25.738   26,309   26.885   26,958   27.f08    26.992   26,959
3. Cash flot Seinte filfitill
frpmetq                                    13291 10,9742    20?       2:      CH   1,2M0   20,493   15.384   2t.357   25,613   76.111   20,655   29,003   28,096   78.517
4. tess: laos repaveent
4.1 Land Develoonaet                            363     858      I a    1.566   1,304   2.341    2.341    3.103    3.103    3.103    3.103    5,399    S,39    5.399    5.39
4.2 Settler bouunq                              432     432     702       701     701     701       72l      702      701       701      702      701       701      269      269
4.3 Sub-lolal                                   795   1,210     804    2.267   2,005   3.042    3.042    3,804    3,804    3.804    3,804    6.100    6,100    5,6&8    S,668
S. net iocose after loan repayment              (1,1131 (4.144)   1596)  (1,3391 (1,5671  4,238    7,451   11,S5O   17.553   21.,09   22.507   2 ,555   22,nts  23,228   22,849
6. islaae (/I                                     -     (,1132 65,25,)  (5.853) (7,1,92  (8,759)   4,521            -             -        -         -        -        -         -
t. Disiribution ol dividends                              -       -                                  2,930    1.580   17,553   22,809   22.507   22,555   22,903   23,228   22,849
v. Per Setitler Amual Infcoe tiJ)
. . .... ..... .. .. .......
v.  Oivideud.                                                                                       732    2,895    4,388    5,452    5.627    5,639    5.726    5,807    5,712
' 2 MaQe'                                     3,576   4,213   5,254    5,220   S.618   6,109    7,593    4.143    3.59    3,841    4,232    4.279    4.28)    4,287    4.280
'.; tolal                                    3,5tt   C,M1    5,154 S5,220   5.618   6.109    8,325    7,638    8.147    9,293    9,859    9.918   10,013   10.094    9.999
..   ... ...... .. ... ... .... .. ....... ........ ..... ...    .............  ... . ........... ....   -- --   -- - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ttP-1. f tiqes frog 19S-19"9 are based ot attual data.
2. Sales valuec tor fF8 Ironm 1985-I98  include cocoa value.
J. Settile  labor req.irewent is assued to be -        t00roa I198-519A7;
80l froe l90 2992: 2500 for I12  and assused to be ?OxiO trom 1293 onvards.
4. Ptvadpnde are distrit.uled t600r 4.00!' shateholel r.



bAnn 1
(Pag 2)
2000    2001    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2003   2009   2010
1. REVEtil
1.1 Padi
Total Prodwctiom (at)                39,890  39s8s   39,s00 39.890  39,890 39,89  39.6s0  39,990 39,100 39,990 39s990
Sales Vatle at S66Oiat.              26,327  26.327  26.327  26.327 26,327 26,327 26.327 26.327 26,321 26.327 26.327
1.2 FFi
FFS Prodetioa fatl                  158,493  15c,003 151,448 147893 144,338 140,783 137,228 133,673 130,118 123,990 118,860
Sales Valuie nl)                     24.725  24,180  23.62o 23.071 21,893 21,962 21,40  20,853 20,299  19,342  18.542
1.3 Cocoa
Total Production (at)                 1.367   1,320   1,257  1.193  1,126  1.060    994    92)    861    797    733
Sales Value (of)                      3,871   3.738   3,560  3.379  3,189  3.002  2,8S  2,625  2,438  2,25)  2.076
I'lAI REWIFfE                           54,923  54.245  53.513 52.777 51.409 51.291 50.550 49,805 40,063 47,926 46.945
2. ErPsses
2.1 Production yost - taterials          15.190  14,842  14,729 14,682  14,644  14,444  14,237 14.144 14,129 14,121  14.109
- labour               8,575   8,575   8.575  8,575  8.575  8.575  8,575  6,575  8.575  8.S75  8.575
2.2 lakat (1ot of padi sales value)       2.633   2,633   2.633  2.633  2,633  2.633  2.633  2,633  2.633  2.633  2.633
2.3 later cbairqas and land taa             425     425      425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
2.4 Advances
2.5 Sub-total                            76.733  26.415  2i.362  26,315 26.277 26.077 25.870 25.777 25.762 25.754 25.742
3. Cash Flou leSefe Financial
Expenses                             28s190  27,770  r7.151  26,40.  2c.132 25,214 24,690 24,028 23,301  22,172 21.203
4. Less: loan repraset
4.1 Laad Developent                       5.399   5.399   5.39   5,399  5,399  3.8219  3.29  2,154   2,154   2,154  1.303
4.2 Settler housino
4.3 Sub-total                              ,39    5.399   5.399  5.399  5.399  3.829  3,829  2,115   2.154  2,154  I.8
5. Net iocose after loan repavyent          22.791   22,371  21.752 21.063  19.733 21,385 20,851 21.874 21,147  20,018  19.820
6. Salue cit                                  -       -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -
7. Distribution of dividends                22.m7   22,371  21,752 21,063 19.733 21,385 20,851 21.874 21.147 20.018  19,820
9. Per Settler Annal Incone (NAP
". I ivid#nd                              5,698   5,593   5.438  5.266  4,933   5.346  5.213  5.469  5.287  S.OP   4.9SS
9.2 hes                                   4.287   4,287   4.287  4.287  4,287  4.287  4,207  4,287  4,287  4.27  4.287
9.3 total                                 9.985   9.880   9.125  9,553  9,220  9,633  .SIIQ   9,756  9.574  9.2M2  9.242
..-   I-------    ----- ---- .. --- ---- ----- ----- ----------------  -- ----- -------- ---  -  --_------- ----------



- 85 -
Annex 13
MALAYSIA
[RANS-PERAK AhEA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Costs And Benefits: Agricuitural Component
(t$1$000)
Cost                                Benefits                     Net
rear   -----------------------------  ----------------------------------            Benefit
capital id  U & N  /b   Total       Padi    OIil Pale   Cocoa    fotal
1981     7,465       2,365        9,830      -         -          -         -          (9,830)
1982     8,930         482        9,412      -         -          -         -          (9,412)
1983    11,527         385       12,412         40     -          -            40    (12,372)
1984     2,115       2,101       10,216        291       219        39        549      (9,667)
1985   1l,692        1,395       18,087        709       864       100      1,673    (16,414)
1986    25,276       o,661      31,937      2,903        559       178      3,640    128,297)
1987    18,388      10,590       28,978      7,907     1,547       128      ',582    (19,396)
1988   1F.177       12,036       29,213     9,722      3,186        89    12,997    (16,216)
1989    1i.643      19,636       31.279    22,450      7,337       298    30,085       (1,194)
1990     1,313      22,8W5       24,178    20,683      7,128       388    28,199        4,021
1991     1,991      24,307       26,298    20,350    11,518        b78    32,546        6,248
1992       697      25,430       26,127    19,120    16,997    1.125    37,242         11,115
1993       378      2t,527       26,905    21,124    25,993    1,656    48,773        21,868
1994                27,383       27,383    22.119    30,133    2,086    54,338        26,955
1995                27,612       27,412    22,203    32,592    2,459    57,254        29,842
1996                27,308       27,308    21,920    29,849    4,258    56,027        28,719
1997                27,289       27,289    21,920    29,982    4,608    56,510        29,221
1998                27,218       27,218    21,920    L9,643    4,828    56,391        29,173
1999                27,140       27,140    21,920    29,093    4,907    55,920         28,780
2U00                2b,684       26,684    21,920    28,498    4,861    55,279         28,595
2001                26,189       26,189    21,920    27,871    4,695    54,486         28,297
2002                25,973       25,973    21,920    27,232    4,470    53,622         27,649
2003                25,911       25,911    21,920    26,5S2    4,243    52,755         26,844
2014                25,8b6       25,866    21,920    25,953    4,007    51,880         26,014
2005                25,671       25,671    21,920    25,314    3,770    51,004         25,333
2006                25,466       25,466    21,920    24,675    3,534    50,129         24,663
2007                25,382       25,382    21,920    24,035    3,297    49,252         23,870
2008                25,368       25,368    21,920    23,396    3,061    48,377         23,009
2009                25,361       25,361    21,920    22,294    2,834    47,048         21,687
2010   t32.398) /c 25,351        (7,047)   21,920    21,372    2,607    45,899         52,946
IRR         10.24%
NPV at 10  X: M$         2,375
/a Excluding cost of housing, settleient infrastructure,
and West Coast Highway.
/b Includes administration and engineering costs.
/c A salvaqe value equai to 25Z of original capitai cost is
assumed.



am-n aIU smwnut ot,iCt
nuu ot mes l$stlXt alt"
ItUs
poin
3111101 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~UCI0163SUAIO  33
1219~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
... 1iv I  _as                                         no t   siccr
Z 1MAIAL    s,les              aLt             0                   I$1 sitpol    Itn                                                SEIIol attlnas
TE1ICIUAIL        'Inl                                      _F__
I                                        OFFICE all?                                                         I clivi't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~wuo~ie
4 flTifiS              I ulmn                               I OIT  UES]SETLEhIImET                 IITEIOEVOFEU
__APPI       - .                                 '$                                                                                                    Of E TPI
sfle 1?PtIL              11153tCU    IWn   Itt                      alV
4~It.l                                                   I__~~"~                                                                          I_.___IUIA
2~~~          2 5 91 A       SJI "tE.                               I   Cll f,F I



IBRD 22846
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA
Non-FELCRA Areas
tC(P  h   41lSl         '      ', ;'/                                     Lililli't\j==\%  |   <  Rehabilitated Pct i Area  4015'
_J9* L~. J <A) t  New Pcdi Area
K                     r "~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                  1~~~~~~~~~j  ~~~Tree Crop Area
Iumoas1*                 (                          )2  - .- . '  -  i S '.i\\                                   Main Roads
/< f\ t V \  } ttZt--- - -  Access Roods
'.1\  /    ',t//,o,,', [      J  1l                  ^   ^   New Flood Embonkment
nd         10                                     o- h                                                 Old Flood Embankments
r c      _  ¢-& td A.                                                                                          AMLES
IS.t                                                 / ...d..4iA1                                                        2        2         4
D m_~~                             ~       ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                 3'  4 I
A-* C=, ..y                                         10  KLOMETERS
5L-                                                                                               d Kg. GZa-h
-4.10                                                                                                                                                40lO-
/Townshi
/~~~0 1" '1'gs/
To Teluk Intan                                  4°eo
FEBRUARY 1991



