Document of                      F"EECOPIY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2917-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 5, 1981
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00       =      M$2.15
M$1.00        =      US$0.46
M$1 million   =      US$465,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m) = 10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m) = 35.31 cubic feet
= 1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
DID    = Drainage and Irrigation Department
FELCRA = Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA  = Federal Land Development Authority
PWD    = Public Works Department
UNDP   = United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFF'ICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of Malaysia
Amount:                US$50.0 million
Terms:                 17 years with 4 years grace at 9.6% per annum.
Project Description:  The proposed project would provide for development of
14,800 ha of new land for rice and treecrops, and
rehabilitation of 3,700 ha of existing rice land in
Perak State, on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia.
It would also include roads, housing, community
facilities, palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting
services for agriculture and community development for
about 6,900 settler families, presently la,ndless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and
other states. The project focuses on one of the major
identifiable groups of rural poor, the rice small-
holders, and addresses two of the main factors respon-
sible for their poverty, the small size of' holdings
and the low productivity of rice land.
All of the direct benefits to be derived from the
project would accrue to the settler families, about
35,000 people, whose present income is about US$230
per capita, well below the 1981 absolute poverty
level income of US$320. With the project!, average
incomes of settler families are expected to reach
US$560 per capita. Additional benefits would accrue
to the settlers through improved housing and community
facilites. Indirect benefits, e.g., increased
employment in the public and private sectors,
increased commercial activity and better quality of
life, would accrue to most of the project area
population, projected to be about 47,000 people at
full development in 1992.
There are no unusual risks associated with the
project. However, coordination among the implementing
agencies would be crucial to project execution. There-
fore, the appointment of a Project Coordinator has been
made a condition of effectiveness. Adequate funds for
consulting services have been provided to assist with
project implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                            Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
--- US$ millions ----       %
Irrigation, drainage            10.9      8.0    18.9      42
& farm roads
Land development                16.3      8.4    24.7       34
Settler houses                  11.9      3.0    14.9      20
Settlement infrastructure    27.2    10.2    37.4          27
Project main roads               2.9      1.5      4.4     35
Buildings                        9.2      2.6    11.8       22
Processing facilities            3.4      2.3      5.7     40
West Coast Highway section    7.5         4.0    11.5       35
Equipment and vehicles           1.4      8.0      9.4      85
Land acquisition                 2.0      -        2.0       -
Administration & engineering  2.7         -        2.7       -
Consultants and studies          3.1      1.7      4.8     35
Base Cost                 98.5    49.7   148.2        34
Physical contingencies
(11% of base cost)           11.0      5.6    16.6       34
Expected price increases
(21% of base cost plus
physical contingencies)       23.5    11.7    35.2       34
Total Project Cost /_   133.0    67.0   200.0          34
Financing Plan:
Bank                             -       50.0    50.0
Government                     133.0      -     133.0
Co-financing being sought                17.0    17.0
Total                    133.0    67.0   200.0
Estimated         Bank FY       1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Disbursement:
Annual        7.6   9.7  10.6   8.5   6.7   4.3   1.6   1.0
Cumulative   7.6  17.3  27.9  36.4  43.1  47.4  49.0  50.0
Rate of Return:  18%
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3220-MA, dated       February 27, 1981.
/1 Exempt from all known taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$50.0 million for a Trans-Perak
Area Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years grace, with interest of 9.6% p.a.
PART I - THIE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977. Since that
report was circulated, a book has been prepared at the request of the
Government, which reviews the overall performance of the Malaysian economy
since 1960, discusses current issues and assesses future prospects.
Entitled "Malaysia: Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society," the book
was published in July 1980. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown
in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past.
The per capita income of US$1,320 in 1979 is among the highest in Southeast
Asia. During the past two decades, the Malaysian economy achieved an
average real growth of GNP of about 7% a year. This sustained high growth
rate is basically a reflection of the country's wealth in natural resources,
especially its ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth
strategy; good, albeit cautious, economic and financial management; and, not
least, stable social and political institutions. Three specific factors
were important: sharp rises in productivity in the rubber sector - rises
which cushioned the effects of steep price declines and helped maintain
the Malaysian share in the world rubber market; a big push for export
diversification through rapid expansion of the production of palm oil and
the extraction of timber; and rapid manufacturing growth, which has averaged
about 13% a year since 1968 and has been increasingly oriented toward exports.
4.        A look beyond the macroeconomic aggregates reveals that Malaysia
has been trying to overcome a serious poverty problem. Since 1960, signi-
ficant improvements have been made in raising production in agriculture,
diversifying output and improving social services. However, the impact of
these improvements on the incomes of the poor has been offset to a
/1 Part I is essentially the same as the corresponding section of the
President-s Report No. P-2705-MA, dated August 7, 1980, on the Kelantan
Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1899-MA), which was approved on
August 26, 1980.



- 2 -
significant extent by other factors. Continuing rapid population growth has
substantially reduced the impact of production increases on per capita
incomes. In addition, Malaysia suffered a serious and sustained terms of
trade loss during the 1960s which further reduced average real income growth
during the period. As a result, a serious poverty problem persists: the
Government estimates that almost 40% of the population have incomes
insufficient to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter, clothing and
other basic needs. Further, this problem is complicated by considerable
racial inequalities in income and employment. Malay income on average is
only about 40% the income of Chinese and about two thirds the income of
Indians. Malays still predominate in employment in agriculture and
non-Malays in the industry and services sectors.
5.        Because the problems of poverty and racial inequalities are both
serious and persistent, the Government has given top priority to solving them.
Thus, the twin objectives of the New Economic Policy, introduced by the
Government in 1971, are to eradicate poverty and to reduce the racial
imbalance in income, employment, and the ownership of assets. More
specifically, it is targeted that by 1990 the incidence of poverty will be
reduced by two-thirds, that the pattern of employment will reflect the
racial composition of the population, and that the share of bumiputras /1 in
the ownership of the corporate sector will increase from 2% in 1970 to at
least 30%. The New Economic Policy emphasizes the need for rapid growth in
the industrial and services sectors as the principal means by which these
objectives will be attained. The Government's long-term plan is based on
the requirement that about 2 million, or almost 90%, of the new jobs to be
created during 1975-90 would be in industry and services. This requirement
implies a substantial reduction in the share of agricultural employment. It
also implies a net shift out of agriculture of more than a million jobs from
the number that would be employed if present employment patterns were to
persist.
6.        If the targets of the New Economic Policy are to be reached, the
economy must maintain a long-term GNP growth rate of at least 8% a year.
The growth of the manufacturing sector will have to be even more rapid. A
more moderate growth rate would substantially reduce the creation of new
employment in the modern sector and make it more difficult to achieve the
targets for restructuring employment and reducing poverty.
7.        Malaysia's strong natural resource base together with a favorable
outlook for the prices of her major commodity exports should provide the
economy with sufficient financial resources to achieve rapid growth. Aside
/1 Bumiputra literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to refer
to Malays and other indigenous groups.



from short term fluctuations, the balance of payments current account should
continue in surplus for the foreseeable future enabling an adequate level of
reserves to be maintained together with a moderate level of debt service.
The elasticity of tax revenues should also enable the Government to finance an
expanded development program. Thus the availability of resources, which
has not been a serious problem in the past, is expected to be even less of a
constraint in the future. Compared with most other developing countries,
Malaysia is fortunate in this respect.
8.        Although Malaysia appears to have the financial capacity to achieve
rapid growth, the economy will no longer be able to rely so heavily on rapid
growth of primary production. While Malaysia is rich in natural resources,
which will provide a reliable base for the expansion of the economy, the
growth rates of the production of such commodities as rubber, palm oil,
petroleum and forest products are all likely to be lower than in the past.
With growth decelerating in the resource sectors, rapid industrial growth
will increasingly become essential to successful economic performance. This
imperative arises not only from the viewpoint of production and the creation
of real incomes but also from the viewpoint of employment and its racial
restructuring.
9.        In addition to rapid industrial growth, successful achievement of
the targets of the New Economic Policy will require a concerted effort to
accelerate the pace of rural development. Most of the poor live in rural
areas. Although rapid growth of industrial employment can ease the problem of
rural poverty by absorbing migrants from rural areas, poverty will continue to
be a largely rural phenomenon. The projections of the Third Malaysia Plan
indicate that, even if there is rapid sustained growth of employment in
industry and services, more than three-quarters of Malaysia's poor will be in
rural areas in 1990. An expansion of income and employment opportunities for
rural Malaysians is of high priority. Furthermore, the expected decline in
the growth rates of the production of rubber and palm oil makes expansion of
government programs to alleviate poverty even more necessary. These programs
include accelerating land development, expanding replanting of rubber
smallholdings, expanding extension and credit for rice farmers, promoting
intercropping by coconut smallholders and improving the access of poor
families to basic services. The greater availability of public resources will
enable the Government to undertake that expansion. But the main constraint to
mounting a more effective attack on rural poverty appears to be the capacity
of the public sector to identify and prepare projects that can affect large
numbers of rural poor.
10.       The Government does not have the direct control over private
investment that it has over public investment, but it can play a strong role
in providing a policy framework conducive to vigorous growth in the private



sector. Because the more obvious areas of import substitution have been
exhausted, sustained rapid growth in manufacturing will have to rely
increasingly on export expansion.  Policies will therefore have to ensure a
favorable export environment. With regard to institutional factors, the
Government has already acted to alleviate fears in the private community
about the Industrial Coordination Act and the Petroleum Development Act.
The Government has also stressed that it will implement the Industrial
Coordination Act in a flexible and pragmatic manner so as to encourage
investment and growth.  Because much of the concern in the private sector
has been over how that Act will be implemented, flexible implementation by
the Government should help to ease the concern in the business community.
11.        In summary, the prospects appear to be good for achieving rapid
growth and for ameliorating the twin problems of poverty and racial im-
balances. Certainly there should be no serious constraints imposed by the
availability of resources. To achieve the targets of the New Economic
Policy will nevertheless require vigorous action by the Government along a
number of fronts.  The policy framework will have to be readjusted to ensure
sustained growth of the industrial sector. A pragmatic attitude will be
needed in interpreting and implementing the quantitative restructuring
targets to ensure that sight is not lost of the overall goal of improving
the racial balance. Growth in the supply of technically trained manpower
will require close scrutiny to ensure that it does not constrain the
restructuring potential made possible by rapid economic growth. Finally,
larger and more effective programs to reduce poverty by direct action will
require a concerted effort to expand the capacity of the public sector to
prepare and implement such programs.
12.       Assuming a continuing 7-8% rate of economic growth during the
1980s, Malaysia's balance of payments is projected to remain in modest
surplus. The cumulative current account surplus is projected to average
about 1.0% of GDP during the 1980s. Net direct investment medium- and
long-term loans equivalent to about 4.0% of GDP would be required to
maintain a reasonable level of reserves and to offset short-term and other
outflows. At present about 15% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is
from the World Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat during the early
1980s. Debt service is expected to be maintained at a level equivalent to
about 4% of exports. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about
10% and may increase to about 20% by the end of the decade.
13.        In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the
Government will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely
because of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same time,
Malaysia has a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The
country needs technical assistance and expertise to help develop poverty
alleviation programs and to assist in designing and packaging projects that
reach out directly to low-income families. The Malaysians believe strongly
that project borrowing, particularly from development institutions such as



the World Bank, is necessary to assist them to mount an effective attack on
poverty. Bank lending is therefore focused on strengthening direct
government efforts to reduce poverty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
14.       The Bank has made 49 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,157.5 million
for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
Although in a number of cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of December 31, 1980, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the Bank
amounted to $1,006.3 million. Twenty-one loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of current projects under implementation.
15.       Since Malaysia is currently a resource-surplus country, it can
finance most infrastructure projects without Bank assistance. The Bank's
present lending strategy in Malaysia is to support the Government's programs
to combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, pirticularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an
institutional and policy framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to
design and implement antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind,
the Bank has proposed to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such
as the National Agricultural Credit Bank (Bank Pertanian Malaysia), the
Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber
Industry Smallholders Development Authority, and area and state development
agencies in the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their
experience in the designing of projects and serve as a basis for building
managerial and technical skills within these institutions. Technical
assistance of this nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be
the most effective way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian
development at present.
16.       Malaysia-s own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Eight
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
treecrops, national extension and research. At least 13 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years. The proposed project focuses on improving the incomes of the
smallholder rice farmers, one of the poorest groups in Malaysia.



- 6 -
17.       The Government's capability to develop such projects, however,
remains weak, largely because of a shortage of trained manpower. With the
help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural Development
Project, which provides technical assistance to selected federal and state
agencies, the Bank is helping the Government to develop further its programs
and projects for reducing poverty.
18.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more heavily
on technical and skill training. It is also taking initiatives in providing
support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in promoting the
growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the Government to
realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives. Assistance to
infrastructure will be selective, concentrating on providing access to rural
areas and rural electrification.
19.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of December 31, 1980 amounted to $1.14
million (Annex II).
Part III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
20.       The agricultural sector plays a dominant role in the economy of
Malaysia, though its relative importance is declining as the country
proceeds toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 24% of
GDP, 40% of export earnings, and 42% of employment. GDP in agriculture grew
at an average rate of about 5% p.a. between 1973 and 1979. Based on past
investments in treecrops and new land development, and continuing public
sector investments, growth is likely to be sustained at 4-5% for the next
decade. Agricultural production has been heavily export-oriented since
colonial times; however, the composition of exports has changed significantly
in the last decade due to the Government-s policy of diversification in the
sector. Rubber continues to be the single largest export earner, but its
share has dropped from 40% in 1969 to 21% in 1979 as earnings from palm oil,
wood products and cocoa have grown. Malaysia is the world's largest producer
and exporter of both rubber and palm oil, supplying 42% of the world's natural
rubber output and 49% of palm oil production in 1979. Agriculture's share of
total employment has gradually declined from 53% in 1970 to 42% in 1979. The
Government expects the agricultural labor force to grow about 1% per annum for
the next decade with industry and services absorbing increasingly larger per-
centages of the total labor force. Continued growth in volume and favorable
prices in agriculture, along with the expansion of manufacturing and the
recent development of Malaysia's oil and gas reserves, have enabled the
country to maintain a healthy trade surplus, estimated at about US$2.1 billion
in 1979.



- 7 -
21.       Peninsular Malaysia has about 3.2 million ha, or 25% of its area,
under cultivation, of which almost 2.3 million are in rubber and oil palm.
Nearly two thirds of the treecrop area is in smallholdings. The other
major crops are rice, grown on 478,000 ha, of which about half is double
cropped, and coconut, with 337,000 ha. Other crops (each occupying below
40,000 ha) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane, tobacco, coffee, pepper
and groundnuts. Output has grown rapidly over the past decade; rubber
output increased 100% and oil palm, 300%. Output of rice increased 90%,
primarily due to improved and expanded irrigation facilities. Domestic
production of rice supplies 85-90% of consumption requirements. With
population growing at 2.7% p.a., an additional 45,000 tons of rice are
required each year just to maintain the current per capita consumption
level. The Government has formulated three basic objectives with regard to
rice: (a) to increase the incomes of rice farmers; (b) to achieve national
self-sufficiency in rice production; and (c) to provide reasonably priced
rice to consumers.
22.       Notwithstanding the impressive overall performance of the
Malaysian economy, some 36% of the population had incomes below the official
absolute poverty line in 1978. Two thirds of those were in agricultural
households, where the incidence was about 55%. Among rice farmers, about 74%
have family incomes below the absolute poverty line. According to a 1980
Bank report on rural poverty in Malaysia, a farmer with no off-farm income
needs 2.4-2.8 ha of single cropped rice to achieve an absolute poverty level
income of US$300 per capita; however, the average and median size holding is
1.2 ha.
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development
23.       Having officially adopted in 1970 the objective of poverty eradi-
cation, the Government has employed two basic strategies. The first has
been land development to allow the absorption of workers from low-income
rural occupations to higher productivity employment. The second has been
the provision of projects and programs aimed directly at increasing
smallholder productivity.  Aided by strong growth in the secondary and
tertiary sectors, implementation of these strategies has contributed to a
significant decrease in the incidence of rural poverty: from 167% in 1970 to
55% in 1978. Strong industrial growth during this period provided enough
employment opportunities outside agriculture to absorb two thirds of the
increase in the rural labor force. Large scale irrigation projects that
came into operation in the early 1970s provided increases in rice
productivity that significantly changed the income position of the project
beneficiaries and allowed the country to reduce its imports from 42% of
consumption requirements in 1967 to about 10% in 1979. Government agencies,
such as the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA), carried out land
development projects opening up more than 1.1 million ha of new lands,
mostly for treecrops and resettled about 250,000 rural families.



-8-
24.       With Malaysia's strong industrial base and its financial resources,
it is in a position to continue its efforts to increase the productivity of
small farmers as a principal thrust of its poverty strategy. Some recent
measures to assist these farmers include reduction of the rubber export tax,
an increase in padi price supports, and provision of free fertilizers and
pesticides to rice farmers. Most recently, the Government has introduced a
policy of eliminating interest charges on funds provided to agencies for
poverty alleviation projects.
Irrigation Development
25.       Irrigation in Malaysia is confined mainly to the cultivation of
rice. The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) was established in 1932
after a serious rice shortage in the early 1920s and the realization that
overdependence on other countries for basic food supplies was risky. DID's
responsibility was land improvement and water resources development, partic-
ularly with regard to rice, which had been cultivated as a wet season crop
over some 100,000 ha, and treecrops, which had been established on about
40,000 ha in coastal areas subject to tidal inundation. Until the early
1960s, irrigation schemes were designed to stabilize production of a single
crop of rice during the wet season, providing water to supplement rainfall
during short periods of drought. In the early 1960s, the expansion of
irrigation was accelerated as part of the massive rural development program
after independence, and DID began aiming its programs toward double cropped
rice by building storage dams, pumping stations, and upgrading distribution
systems. DID has now provided irrigation facilities for all major rice
producing areas, with the result that 80% of the country's 478,000 ha of rice
land now has some form of irrigation facilities and over 50% is technically
capable of double cropping. Although the major part of DID's program has been
to provide irrigation systems in traditional rainfed rice areas, they have
also undertaken projects to develop new land for rice production.
26.       The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Project (Loan 500-MA). Together, the
project areas amount to nearly 120,000 ha, about 25% of the rice land
in peninsular Malaysia, and accommodate some 73,000 farm families.
According to the Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 1295), they
were successful projects which helped to reduce rice imports from 42% of
national requirements in 1967 to 17% in 1974 and resulted in increases of
75-100% in the incomes of project beneficiaries. Five other Bank-financed
projects under implementation will improve, expand and intensify irrigation
over 116,000 ha of rice land and drainage over 212,000 ha of treecrops.
These projects include, in addition to the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, provisions for strengthening agricultural support services
such as credit, extension, processing and marketing. Coordination of the



-9-
various agencies and departments is a major element in the successful
implementation of the projects, and the Government has developed an
effective organization for this purpose.  A Steering Committee of federal
and state officials is appointed for each project to guide and sapport a
project manager, who is responsible for the progress of all components of
the project.
Area Development
27.       Malaysia has about 2.0 million ha of undeveloped land suitable for
agriculture, much of it in swampy and remote areas similar to the site of the
proposed project. The physical works required to develop this land in terms
of tree felling, stump removal, land levelling and drainage are more than
most small farmers can accomplish with their own resources. This leaves
large-scale development of new land to the Government or private firms. In
the past, state governments, with land ownership and use under their control,
generally allowed the private estates to carry out most of the land develop-
ment, with a few small-scale projects assigned to state development agencies.
With increasing emphasis on alleviating poverty and improving the lives of
the rural population, the state governments have requested federal government
participation in projects which provide, in addition to land development,
housing, schools, clinics and supporting services for agriculture and
community development.
28.        Under the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80), land development proceeded
at the rate of about 80,000 ha per year. Much of this development was
accomplished by the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA). Established
in 1958, FELDA has focused on large-scale land development and settlement
schemes based almost entirely on rubber and palm oil. The Bank has supported
the program with loans for six projects carried out by FELDA, involving more
than 25,000 settler families on about 117,000 ha of land devoted to oil
palm, rubber and cocoa. The first three projects provided for the
development and settlement of about 40,000 ha in the Jengka Triangle in the
interior of Peninsular Malaysia. Project Performance Audit Reports for
Jengka I and II (Reports No. 2122 and 3021) noted the remarkable success of
these projects in terms of improved incomes and living conditions of the
settlers and the build-up of FELDA's technical capability. The third and
last stage of the Jengka Triangle projects is due to be completed in 1981.
FELDA is considered a mature organization, and Bank assistance is now
focused on expanding the implementation capacity of the Government's second
land development agency, the Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority (FELCRA).
29.        FELCRA was established in 1966 largely in response to the Govern-
ment-s growing concern about the inability of smallholders to generate
adequate incomes due to the small size of their plots. In addition to
undertaking the development of new land areas, this new Authority, unlike
FELDA, was directed to rehabilitate existing but underutilized agricultural
areas by making them economically viable. To date, FELCRA's development



- 10 -
activities have included rehabilitation of self-help land schemes, in which
state governments made blocks of land available to groups of individuals,
and fringe development, in which land adjacent to villages was developed for
the benefit of existing villagers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
30.       The Perak State Government has long recognized the agricultural
potential of the 80,000 ha Trans-Perak swamp in the lower reaches of the Perak
River, but development efforts lagged on account of the area's inaccessibility
and the fact that up to the mid-1970s there was little economic or population
pressure on the State to undertake such development. As much of the area was
being settled by squatters, without the benefit of development planning or
provision of infrastructure, in 1976 the Government commissioned consultants
ESAMS (Malaysia), in association with Howard Humphreys (UK), to undertake a
regional development study of the lower Perak basin. This study identified
four potential projects, and further discussions between the Bank and the
Government led to the selection of the proposed project as the next step in
the development of the Trans-Perak region.
31.       FELCRA was selected as the implementing agency on the grounds that
it had the capacity to carry out both rice and oil palm development and also
because it had two ongoing schemes adjacent to the new land to be developed.
In 1979, the Government, with the assistance of consultants KPM Khidmat Sdn.
Bhd. (Malaysia), in association with Snowy Mountain Engineering Corporation
(Australia), reviewed the technical and economic feasibility of the project,
drawing on the information collected by the various government agencies
already carrying out programs in the project area, and made recommendations
for meeting the irrigation, transportation, processing and marketing
requirements evolving from the proposed development.
32.       Project design criteria were established, taking into account the
constraints of soil suitability, drainage capacity, topography and labor
availability. To maximize the number of settlers, yet still provide for
incomes well above poverty levels, the study indicated the optimal family
holding would be 1.2 ha for rice and 1.2 ha for treecrops. The combination
of rice and treecrops would provide settlers with a subsistence crop and a
monthly income, and would cushion their incomes against price and yield
fluctuations in any one crop. In addition, each family would have a housing
plot of 0.1 ha in the new township (5,500 families) or in the village of
Sungei Dedap (1,400 families). No farmer would live more than 12 km from
his rice field or treecrop plot, all of which would be accessible by bicycle.
33.       The project was appraised in June/July 1980.  Negotiations were held
from January 22 to 29, 1981.  The Malaysian government delegation was led by



- 11 -
Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Details of the
project are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report entitled, "Malaysia
Trans-Perak Area Development Project" (No. 3220-MA, dated February 27, 1981)
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary project data are given in Annex III.
Project Description
34.       The proposed project would provide for development of 14,800 ha of
new land for rice and treecrops, and improvement of 3,700 ha of existing rice
land in Perak State, on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia (see Map No.
14766). It would also include roads, housing, community facilities, palm oil
and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and community
development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or culti-
vating uneconomic sized holdings in Perak and other states. The project
focuses on one of the major identifiable groups of rural poor, the rice
smallholders, and addresses two of the main factors responsible for their
poverty, the small size of holdings and the low productivity of rice land.
35.       The main features of the project are:
(a) improvement of about 122 km and construction of about 79 km of
main and secondary canals;
(b) improvement of about 73 km and construction of about 12 km of
main and secondary drains;
(c) development of about 6,400 ha of new land for rice cultivation,
including land clearing and levelling, and construction of tertiary
canals, drains and farm roads;
(d) rehabilitation of about 3,700 ha of existing rice land, including
levelling on 1,000 ha and construction of farm roads;
(e) land development and crop establishment for about 8,400 ha of
treecrops, including land clearing, internal drains and farm
roads and bridges;
(f) improvement of the existing 66 km and construction of 29 km of
flood embankment;
(g) construction of 53 km of project main roads;
(h)  construction of a 27-km section of the West Coast Highway;
(i)  construction of a township and improvement of the Sungei Dedap
village settlement for 6,900 settler farm families;
(j) provision of agricultural suppport services, including offices,
workshops, and staff housing; and



- 12 -
(k)  construction of processing facilities for oil palm with a
capacity of 40 ton fresh fruit bunch/hr and for cocoa
with a capacity of 5 ton dried beans/day.
In addition, the project provides for the purchase, operation and maintenance
of vehicles and equipment for agricultural support services, and for con-
sulting services to undertake detailed design and construction supervision
of project works and preparation of future projects.
Project Implementation
36.       This project, which forms part of an ongoing program, would be
implemented over a period of seven years, from mid-1981 to mid-1988.  This
seven-year period is necessary to establish the treecrop component and
complete construction of the processing facilities.  Construction of major
irrigation and drainage works is in various stages of progress. Preparation
of detailed designs and tender documents for the project works to be carried
out during the first year of implementation is sufficiently advanced for
tendering to begin shortly after loan approval and for construction to
proceed on schedule. Contracts totalling about US$30 million would be
awarded during the first year of the implementation period. Work on
tertiaries and farm roads would begin in early 1982 after land levelling.
Most of the township services would be completed by 1984 and the West Coast
Highway section would be finished by 1985. Construction of settlers- houses
would be phased with the land development and would be completed by early
1986. The processing facilities are planned to meet the requirements of
field production, with the first phase of the oil palm mill ready by 1986 and
the second phase by 1988. All project works would be completed by June 1988.
Project Cost and Financing
37.       Total project costs in mid-1981 prices are estimated at US$200
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$67 million, or 34% of the
total cost. Because of the tax-exempt status of the government departments,
cost estimates exclude all known taxes and duties. For civil works, cost
estimates are based on quantities and unit prices prepared by the implement-
ing agencies. Unit prices are in line with recent bid prices in Malaysia.
Although a program of irrigation works and land development is already in
progress in the project vicinity, the costs included in the proposed proj-
ect are based on activities scheduled to commence in mid-1981.  Physical
contingencies of 17% were applied for irrigation, drainage, land development
and road works, 10% for settlement works, and 5% for equipment, vehicles,
project buildings and processing facilities. Expected price increases over
the project implementation period amount to 21% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, assuming cost escalation for both local and foreign com-
ponents of 9.0% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85 and 6.0% in 1986-88.
38.       The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance 75% of the
foreign exchange component of the project, or 25% of the total project cost.
The Governnent's contribution of US$150.0 million would finance the balance of



- 13 -
project costs through annual budgetary allocations. Currently, the
Government is exploring possible co-financing arrangements to secure the
additional US$17 million of foreign exchange required.
39.       Consulting Services.  The cost of consultants' services for design
and construction supervision would be about US$2.8 million, covering about
1,140 man-months over a period of seven years, together with vehicles,
survey equipment, and local transportation. The average man-month cost
(including salary, overhead, profits, travel and subsistence) is; estimated
to be about US$2,000. In view of DID's heavy work load on exist:ing projects,
they would require about 680 man-months of local consultants' time to assist
in construction supervision. The Public Works Department (PWD) and the
State Economic Development Corporation would require about 460 man-months of
local consultant services to review designs and assist in preparation of
tender documents and construction supervision of the project roads and
township facilities.  In addition, the proposed loan would provide funds to
assist the Government in preparing future projects. The estimated 420
man-months of consulting services, totalling US$2.0 million, is composed of
about 250 man-months of local and 170 man-months of expatriate time, at an
average man-month cost of about US$2,000 for local consultants and about
US$7,000 for expatriate consultants. During negotiations an assurance was
obtained that consultants engaged under the project would be employed under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement
40.       Construction contracts scheduled for international competitive
bidding (ICB) and local competitive bidding (LCB) are as follows:
Construction Contracts
ICB           LCB
(including contingencies)
------ US$ million ------
Irrigation works                                       12.5(2)/a      14.4(6)/a
Land development and rehabilitation                                   31.8(14)
Settlers' houses and project buildings                 35.8(5)
Settlement infrastructure                                             50.0(10)
Processing facilities                                   7.6(1)         0.8(1)
Project main roads                                      5.3(1)
West Coast highway section                             14.5(1)
Total                                             75.7(10)      97.0(31)
/a  Number of contracts in parentheses.



- 14 -
Construction of the irrigation works would be packaged into eight contracts,
two to be awarded following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines and six following LCB procedures. ICB would also be used for the
construction of settlers houses, project buildings, roads, and processing
facilities. The ten ICB contracts would have a total value of about US$76
million, including physical contingencies and price increases, and would
range from about US$5 to US$15 million. The size and phasing of contracts
for land development would be dictated by the rate at which land clearance
is carried out; of the fourteen contracts for land development, seven would
involve rice land and seven would include the specialized tasks of treecrop
establishment and maintenance. Experience in Malaysia has shown that works
of this nature in inaccessible areas are of little interest to international
contractors. Most of the irrigation and drainage works and settlement
infrastructure, as well as the cocoa mill, are not large enough to attract
international contractors. Therefore, competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures would be appropriate. An estimated 31 LCB contracts
would total about US$97 million and range in size from US$800,000 to
US$5 million. Bank staff have reviewed the local procurement procedures and
they are acceptable. There is potentially adequate competition and foreign
firms would be allowed to participate. Force account would be limited to
the fabrication of gates and hoists for water control structures by the
federal DID workshop. Vehicles and equipment costing US$8.6 million,
including expected price increases, would be procured by ICB in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Local procurement practices are appropriate for
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$40,000 each because the advantages
of ICB would be clearly outweighed by the administrative costs involved.
The total cost of such items for all components of the project would not
exceed US$2.0 million.
Disbursement
41.       Disbursements from the Bank loan for vehicles and equipment would
be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported vehicles and equipment, or the ex-factory price net of taxes for
items manufactured locally, and at the rate of 80% of total cost of imported
items procured locally. Disbursement for civil works and land development
executed by contract would be at 31% of total costs. For consulting
services and studies, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures.
No disbursement would be made against settlement infrastructure and force
account expenditures. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by December 31, 1988.
Accounts and Audit
42.       The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
government controls and audit procedures. Assurances were obtained that all
agencies involved in project implementation would maintain separate accounts



- 15 -
which would be collated by the Project Coordinator, and that the Government
would furnish the Bank such information regarding these accounts as the Bank
might reasonably request (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
43.       Overall responsibility for coordinating project-related activities
would rest with a Project Coordinator. He would be guided on policy matters
by a Steering Committee composed of the Secretaries-General of the Ministry
of Agriculture and the Ministry of Land and Regional Development, the State
Secretary of Perak and any other officials who might be appointed to it.
The Project Coordinator would be the Secretary of the Steering Committee,
following the pattern of several previous area development projects in
Malaysia. He would coordinate the selection of settlers and the phasing of
their arrival with land development, construction of irrigation works and
settlement facilities, and the provision of support services. This
management structure has worked well in the past and is in line with the
federal and state responsibilities and jurisdictions in Malaysia. The
appointment of a suitably qualified Project Coordinator (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement) and the establishment of a Steering Committee (Section
3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement) are both conditions of effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a) and (b)). The Government foresees no difficulty in the
prompt appointment of the Coordinator.
44.       The implementing agencies for the project would be:  the Federal
Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) under the Ministry
of Land and Regional Development; the Drainage and Irrigation Department
(DID) under the Ministry of Agriculture; and the Public Works Department
(PWD) under the Ministry of Works and Utilities. Other participating
agencies include: the Town and Country Planning Department and the State
Economic Development Corporation for settlement services; the Department of
Agriculture, the Farmers' Organization Authority, the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute, and the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (the
National Agricultural Bank), for agricultural support services; and the
National Padi and Rice Authority and the Federal Agricultural Marketing
Authority for processing and marketing.
45.       FELCRA would be responsible for land development and rehabilitation,
establishment of treecrops, construction, operation and management of the
palm oil mill, construction of settlers' housing, and settler management and
administration. At the project level, FELCRA's field staff would be
organized into five divisions, headed by the Chief FELCRA Officer. DID
would be responsible for implementing the irrigation and drainaLge works, farm
roads and flood embankment. DID would engage consultants for construction
supervision, and appoint a team of key staff headed by a Reside!nt Engineer
for overall direction and supervision. To ensure that design concepts are
effectively transmitted from the design staff to the districtletvel staff who
would operate and maintain the completed systems, DID would pre!pare a
designer's operation manual covering major project works on completion of
the final design (Section 3.10 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). PWD would



- 16 -
be responsible for the design and construction of project main roads and the
27 km section of the West Coast Highway which would provide access from the
project area to the main district centers.  The Federal Agricultural Marketing
Authority would provide for construction and operation of the cocoa mill.
The National Padi and Rice Authority and the Farmers Organization Authority
would be responsible for establishing integrated storage, drying and milling
complexes to meet the projected buildup of padi production in the project
area. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would allocate adequate funds to both agencies for these facilities (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
46.       DID would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
main and secondary canals and drains, and the flood embankment. The farmers,
under the supervision of FELCRA field staff, would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems below the service unit
turnouts. FELCRA would maintain the farm roads and drains in the treecrop
area and would be responsible for management and operation of the palm oil
mill. Project main roads would be maintained by the PWD through contract
according to standard practice. Maintenance of the 27 km section of West
Coast Highway would be carried out by PWD, which would follow the current
practice by which maintenance is contracted to private enterprise at the
rate of M$6,200/km. The other implementing agencies would be responsible
for the maintenance of their respective components.
Agricultural Support Services
47.       In view of the fact that in the rice area FELCRA is performing a
coordinating role and that many agencies of the Government would be involved
in the provision of credit, seed and technical support for the rice farmers,
the complexity of coordinating the delivery is much greater than in areas
where FELCRA is operating directly as a plantation manager. The Department
of Agriculture would implement the rice extension component, stationing an
extension officer in the project area to oversee day-to-day activities. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Department of Agriculture,
in consultation with other agriculture-related agencies, would prepare an
agricultural services operations manual as a guide for project field staff
by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.10 (b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
operational methodology of the extension system is widely known as the
Training and Visit system, currently being used in other Bank-assisted
agricultural projects and presently being implemented throughout the whole
country under the National Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA). Each agricul-
tural technician, responsible for about 600 farmers, would conduct bi-weekly
visits to review the condition of demonstration plots and farmers- fields
and discuss immediate actions such as rice varieties to be planted, ferti-
lizer applications, and water management. The main rice research support
would be provided by the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute research station at Parit Buntar. One of the seed production
centers developed under the National Extension Project is located in Titi



- 17 -
Gantong, adjacent to the project area. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the Department of Agriculture would develop this center to
meet the requirements of the project (Section 3.10 (b)(ii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).  The Farmers  Organization Authority would administer the national
input subsidy program which provides free fertilizer to rice farmers for
holdings up to 2.4 ha in size. The Bank Pertanian Malaysia would provide padi
production loans and general banking services.
48.       Field Management.  The project area would be divided into separate
schemes, each comprising about 400 ha. In the 10,000 ha rice area, a senior
manager operating with guidance from FELCRA would be responsible for two
schemes. The Project Coordinator would determine crop calendars jointly with
DID, FELCRA and the Department of Agriculture every season. The Project
Coordinator would have the power to enforce cropping schedules and other
conditions of the settlers agreement. Land preparation would be done mostly
by contractors supplemented by machinery belonging to FELCRA and the Farmers'
Organization Authority. Nursery establishment, transplanting, weeding and
pest control would be the responsibility of individual settlers. Harvesting
would be carried out by combines provided by contractors and supplemented by
FELCRA and the Farmers Organization Authority. The 8,400 ha treecrop area
would be operated as a plantation under FELCRA's direct management and
control. A senior manager would oversee three schemes, or about 1,200 ha.
Settlers would receive wages for their field maintenance and harvesting work,
as well as dividends from their shares in the treecrop plantation.
Township Development
49.       An important objective of the Perak State Government is the
establishment of a town in the project vicinity which would serve as a
regional growth center. For this purpose, they have selected 1,600 ha of
undulating land within the project boundaries which is unsuitable for rice
cultivation. Here about 5,500 families will be settled on housing plots of
0.1 ha. Other families will be settled in a nearby village. The Perak Town
and Country Planning Department, which is responsible for planning and
design of the township, has determined that no settlers will be more than
12 km from their rice plots. This distance can be traveled by bicycle, but
it is expected that the private sector would be active in providing transport
services. FELCRA would provide transport to the treecrop areas. The State
Economic Development Corporation would be responsible for township
development, including commercial facilities, and would coordinate with the
implementing agencies on the phasing and construction of community facilities,
including: the National Electricity Board for electricity; the FWD for
government buildings, township roads and drains, water supply and waste
disposal; the Department of Education for schools; and the Department of
Health for clinics. Upon completion, the Corporation would turn over the
township to local government authorities for maintenance and administration.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained from the Government that a
detailed implementation schedule for provision of the township facilities
would be forwarded to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1981
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Settler Selection and Administration
50.        The Perak State Government, in conjunction with FELCRA, would
select the settlers. Settlers would be given a house on a 0.1 ha lot, 1.2
ha of rice land, and a 1.2 ha share in the treecrop area. Rice plots would
be individually owned, while the treecrop area would be a joint holding
managed by FELCRA. The project would accommodate about 6,900 settlers, all
of whom would reside in the project area with their families. The State
Government has given priority for settlement to the 1,700 settlers already
in the project area either as smallholders, tenants, or squatters. About
5,200 new families would be selected from applicants who would be citizens
of Malaysia, between 21 and 50 years of age, married, landless or owners of
subeconomic-sized holdings and with some experience as rice farmers. Each
settler would sign an agreement with the Government which would obligate him
to repay apportioned costs of agricultural land development and housing and
would bind him to the rules laid down by the Government, including adherence
to the rice cropping schedule and agreement to furnish labor in the treecrop
area. Settler selection criteria have been agreed with the Bank in
substance and will be submitted in detail, along with the Government-settler
agreement, for final review and comment prior to December 31, 1981 (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). FELCRA, in coordination with DID, would
develop the rice land to a stage where farmers can prepare their own fields
and establish and manage the treecrop area up to the time of first harvest.
FELCRA would hold title to the land and the house until the loan has been
fully repaid. FELCRA-s annual management cost would not be charged to the
settlers but would be financed by a Federal Government grant.
Cost Recovery /1
51.       Water charges would be treated along the lines of previous
Bank-financed irrigation projects in Malaysia. Operation and maintenance
costs are funded from general state and federal revenues. Nominal water and
drainage rates are collected by state governments and form part of general
revenue. As Muslims, most settlers would be subject to the compulsory
religious tithe, which in Perak State is levied at a rate of 10% of gross
value of annual padi production. Proceeds are utilized by the state
government for maintaining community facilities and services. The tithe
would average about US$250 per farm per annum at full development, about
four times the irrigation system operation and maintenance costs per farm.
Settlers would be required to repay the capital costs of housing and land
development. Hlowever, no interest would be charged for the housing and land
development loans since it is current government policy to eliminate all
interest rate charges for projects aimed at proverty alleviation.
/1 All cost and benefit estimates are valued in 1981 prices unless otherwise
indicated.



- 19 -
52.       Repayment of housing costs over 15 years, with a two-year grace
period, would require annual payments of US$205 per family. Repayment of
land development costs over 20 years, with a ten-year grace period, would
entail annual payments of US$525 during the repayment period. At present
the Government imposes export taxes of about US$215/ton on palm oil and
US$95/ton on cocoa. At full development in 1992, the project output would
produce tax revenues of about US$5.6 million. Based on present values of
project rent, loan repayment, tithe, water charges and export taxes, the
rent recovery indices for the beneficiaries range from 42% to 46%. For the
total project, the cost recovery index, excluding the cost of housing,
settlement infrastructure, the West Coast Highway section and the processing
facilities, is 37%. Since the project beneficiaries would remain below the
critical consumption level, even in their highest income years, the cost and
rent recovery indices are considered acceptable, especially in vriew of the
Government-s strong commitment to poverty alleviation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       The Project Coordinator would have the main role in settler
management and administration, and would be responsible for monitoring the
flow and accumulation of farm inputs in the project area before and during
each cropping season. This would give project management sufficient warning
of any shortfall and allow appropriate action to be taken. It would also
enable the Government to evaluate the benefit flows in the project area.
FELCRA's field staff, reporting directly to the Chief FELCRA Officer, would
collect input and output data for the rice area and would provide data on
the treecrop operations. This material would be collated and analyzed by
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit that would be established at FELCRA
headquarters. Since the proposed project represents the Government's first
effort to combine rice and treecrops in a settlement cum land development
project, the impact on beneficiaries would be of interest to a number of
government agencies dealing with poverty alleviation objectives, as well as
those involved in rural development. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the Government would, not later than December 31, 1982,
submit to the Bank for review and comment detailed proposals for monitoring
and evaluation of the project (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
54.       Land development would be carried out within the guidelines of the
Malaysian Conservation Act which provides adequate safeguards against
erosion, siltation and excessive flooding. Commercial grade timber has been
extracted from the forests in the project area and only residual timber
remains to be salvaged prior to land clearing operations. No loss of
habitat critical to endangered species is expected. The settlers would be
provided with a water supply which would be much safer than the existing
dependence on rain and surface water. The palm oil mill would be located
away from the population centers in order to minimize the nuisance of



- 20 -
unpleasant odors. Palm oil effluent would be treated by a ponding system
before its discharge to meet the standards set by the Division of
Environment under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment. The
biological oxygen demand level of the effluent would have to be treated
below 500 parts per million before discharge. Watercourse disposal would be
possible as the point of discharge is close to the sea and the rate of
dilution in the Perak River is high. An assurance was obtained that the
Government would take all measures necessary to ensure that the design,
construction and operation of the project works would be carried out in
accordance with appropriate ecological and environmental standards (Section
3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
55.       The project would develop about 14,800 ha of new land, 6,400 ha
for irrigated rice, 7,200 ha for oil palm and 1,200 ha for cocoa, and
rehabilitate about 3,700 ha of existing rice land. About 6,900 farm
families, mainly new settlers, would be direct beneficiaries. The project
would create an annual demand for farm labor of about 2.0 million man-days
and would contribute to the Government's goals of poverty alleviation,
self-sufficiency in rice, increased exports, and more balanced regional
distribution of development. The average capital cost in financial prices
is estimated at US$10,000 per ha and US$24,000 per farm family directly
benefited. The cost per farm family is much higher than in other recent
Bank-financed irrigation projects in Mtalaysia, which range between US$2,000
and US$4,000 because, unlike previous projects where existing physical
works were upgraded, in this case, most of the works are new and the project
includes land clearance, settlements, processing plants and a section of the
West Coast Highway. Compared to previous land settlement projects, the cost
per family is close to Keratong (Ln. 1044-MA), which was US$24,800, and
Johore (Ln. 967-MA), US$22,000, and higher than FELDA VI (Ln. 1590-MA),
US$12,500. The settlement infrastructure cost per family is US$6,700 in the
proposed project and US$2,400 in the FELDA VI project, due in large part to
the high cost of the infrastructure required for development of a township
designated as a growth center as compared to the nine geographically
scattered rural settlements in FELDA VI. The settler families would achieve
per capita income levels of about US$485 at the peak of the loan repayment
period and about US$560 after the loan has been repaid, well above the
absolute poverty level (US$320 per capita). In comparison, the irrigation
projects would provide average per capita incomes of only about US$350 and
US$400 respectively, and the land settlement projects would generate average
incomes from about US$400 to US$600 per capita. The incremental annual
production of 42,000 tons of milled rice at full development would result in
net foreign exchange savings of about US$22 million while the incremental
output of palm oil, palm kernel and cocoa would result in net foreign
exchange earnings of US$21 million.
56.       All of the direct benefits to be derived from the project would
accrue to the settler families, about 35,000 people. At least 90% of these
families would have average incomes of about US$230 per capita, well below



- 21 -
the 1981 absolute poverty level income of US$320. With the project, average
incomes of settler families are expected to reach US$560 per capita. While
these incomes would take the project beneficiaries out of the absolute
poverty level, it is expected that their incomes would still remain below
the projected critical consumption level (US$790 per capita) at that time.
Additional benefits would accrue to the settlers through improved housing
and community facilities. Indirect benefits, e.g. increased employment in
the public and private sectors, increased commercial activity and better
quality of life, would accrue to most of the project area population
estimated to be about 47,000 people at full development.
57.        The agriculture component has an economic rate of return of 18%;
the processing facilities, 25% and the West Coast Highway section, 15%.
With costs and benefits discounted over a 30-year evaluation period, the
overall economic rate of return is 18%. Sensitivity of the estimated rate of
return was tested to cost overruns, reduction in benefits and implementation
delays. A cost overrun of 20% in real terms would reduce the economic rate
of return to 16%; a benefit reduction of 10%, 17%; and a two-year implementa-
tion delay, 14%. A combination of a 20% cost overrun and a two-year implemen-
tation delay would reduce the economic rate of return to 12%.
58.        This project involves no unusual risks.  The risks normally
associated with project benefits, costs, development period and implementa-
tion delays have been evaluated in the sensitivity analysis. However,
coordination among the implementing agencies would be crucial to project
execution. To reduce the risks associated with poor coordination, the
appointment of the Project Coordinator has been made a condition of
effectiveness and adequate funds for consulting services have been provided
to assist the project-related agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
59.        The draft Loan Agreement between Mlalaysia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of effectiveness are the appointment of a
Project Coordinator and the establishment of a Steering Committee. Other
special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. The
draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for loans for irrigation
projects.
60.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Washington, D.C.                                          Ernest Stern
March 5, 1981



- 23 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                           REFFRENCE GROUPS (WEI.GHTF) AtVIFACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - HOST RECENT FSTTIt%Tr)-
TOTAL            329.8
AGRICULTURAL      65.1                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MlPDt.F INCOMr
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC   IATIN AMERTCA & CAPIRBFAI
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  250.0       470.0    1320.0                1114.7                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)      242.0       469.0     716.0                 842.4                   1059.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       8.0        10.7      13.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.2         27.0      28.8                  39.1                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       20.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        24.0        32.0      40.0                 376.1                     28. 1
PER SQ. E2M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    152.0       185.0     204.0                2350.4                     81.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.1        45.4      42.2                  40.4                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          51.3        51.5      54.4                  56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6         3. 1      3.4                   3.4                      3. 9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2. 5        2.9       2.7                   2.4                      2. 7
URBAN                               5.5         3.6       3.6                   4. 1                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      39.1        32.6      29.0                  28. 7                    34. P
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9. 1        6.8       6.0                   7.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          ..        1. 9                 1. 9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        56.0      80.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          7. 0     36.0                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          85.0         99.0     107.0                 116.9                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  105.0        113.0     117.0                 108.9                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.0         51.0      57.0                  60.3                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.0        18.0      22.0                  18.9                     33. 7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       9.0         5.0       3.0                   5.3                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0         64.0      67.0                  63.0                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.0/c      41.0      31.0                  52.8                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      62.0                  42.4                     65.9
URBAN                               ..           ..      93. 0                 62.1                     80.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      49.0                  29.7                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEDT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         59.0      60.0                  52. 8                    62.3
URBAN                                ..       100.0     100.0                  71.1                     79.4
RURAL                               ..         43.0      43.0                  42.4                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           6937.0      4260.0    4347.0                4120. 1                   849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1776. O/d    1246.0    1079.0               2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             265.O/e     285.0     306.0                 819.4                    480.3
URBAN                               ..         86. 0
RURAL                               ..       1900.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..      17.2                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.9         5.6/e
URBAN                               5.9         5-9/e
RURAL                                           5-.. 5.Se
AVERAGE NUttBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.0         2.6/e      .
URBAN                               2. 3        2. 3/e
RURAL                               ..          2. 8e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF Dw6ELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        43. O/e
URBAN                              82.9        84. 77      *
RURAL L30.



-24-                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEARCES
- MQST RECENT ESTIMATE)a
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOIF
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBEFAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEIT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 96.0        91.0      93.0                   98.6                    99.7
IIALE               108.0        95.0       94.0                  99.2                   101.0
FEIALE               83.0        87.0      91. 0                  97. 7                   99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 19.0        35.0      43.0                   55.5                    34.4
MALE                 25.0        40.0      47.0                   60.7                    33.5
FEMALE               13.0        29.0      38.0                   49.9                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  5.0          3. 2       2.9                  13.7                    38. 2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           28.0        31.0      32.0                   34.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                         38.0        26.0      27.0                   28.5                    14. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       53.0        55.0         ..                  85.8                    76.3
CONSUHPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                    9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                  118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAliD
POPULATION                         3. 2       18.0      45.0                   39.4                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 61.0        65.0      87.0                     ..                    63.3
CINEH1A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0        9.4        9. 1                  4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2745.3      3622.2    4789.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  27.0        31.4      33.0                   36.8                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63.1        56.0      50.0                   51.9                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.7        14.0      16.0                   21.9                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.2        33. 8     33.9                   39.1                    31.5
MALE                                48.8        45.7      45.9                   48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                              18.9        21.5      21.5                   29.6                    14.0
ECONOM7IC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.4         1. 5       1.3                   1. 1                    1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF IIOUSEHOLDS    ..        10.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     279.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     252.0                  192.1                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     313.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     283.0                  182. 5                  332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      16.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      46.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1957;  /d 1962;  /e West Malaysia.
Most recept estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25-                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of5
DEPtINITIONS 3F SOCIAL INDItCATOR
totes:  kJth,,gh the dat  ar  tease fro   soucesgenraiy judged the e-s  authoritaftiv  and  eliahie, if should also ho steed that they may -ea  be later-
tutlocally tomarairl because. ofthI       at   f stau.dardie     delelitioe-  and to-opesue   y  iteet  o re  iv nlleoIting.rho data.  The disc are, meRe-
The rereneIp  are.....    . 1) th   ame totY grou,p of( the tubjets~ t.uefey cod (             --autrt, grupoh  ...eohet higher           . avrgentn I thue else  -utna  group.
'sh'-tuiuoi afihai.s.dI th             feerso  g tup du   thi vrgaaepouainrie   arihmeIl                       en  foe ruth iadloator uod ahos  only ebes at
least.  hal   rsecatiaO'agopbadt   o   hrlnet                                Stor  the tvrag  o             to     ..ie   aon  the iltdrestor  depends on the ates  btile ty
duta  ud u  totunifrm,  aution rust bneer-i-d to, relating at...ages of ontdioIo  touvoster   These                 .. avrgesare  yi   n li  op  lg the  aa
ofueirdlno  at u etm  -soo  the coutry aud referent  groups.
tt -Total tuf-at  area  ArptigSu   raadilnrtr.snaaqaltdTo  a  elotsoti                                                                ftuiverciny  L.-ve.
Ealett    ti -fulm-  of ugriioulnaaldura-      d. ueteprrlorprnety                  PuainprnutgPrc-Ppuniocd divde  by. -rne  of  estit
15ff PS  CAPIT  (1111    IsP pr capia rtclutes usturpeo   matnpie,Il.            ubn   n  rual  dividd        lbythei   reseriveadabey  0:7b feptel.tbeds
cut used by sne tomo arkt t mehd asitlha lan  A            Iu,(9 ,-9bai) 197 h, da  t       labe i  pnlt Uand, piaagooon,pntler.ogttlcdR
GNS ER1 CAN-lPITAlUS)t P GNPCPITA    Pi-   los Lito tu nit of o-oenilk. eni-gy tota              tby a  lace  one  dhpaittn nd       aimen    rodagpbepiy thoar-Ppedtiatl1
..  ... .yPlh.d  a W-1. B..k Atl.. (19teeter  net7pematetlyisnffed9b  a phyiilan  but bya,media,  ca-1tamd
t9riottyl  In 1ilogd-m   ofsu   qtat          e   ato;1f,17.an   99nre  m_dife, at.) ebPPlt offr t-ptbient -er                                       padai        tl cad fre ade
duesRGlimitedMrange atRmedcalTfuotil.t.e.  Farpcs- fet--iapurposestaebam heapS
PtP7IAPO  00.i,.l i  lITId                                                                     bpiaatoaorrrloniatndmdtlsduoetyetee
Toala  Pouain   i-sa             lis)-Ono   uy1   9f,17,ad17                                 bdtsin  perf. -onia  ted-  Tonal number oft adnicadanain  or disearge
Orhan Poputution (yartent of total) -t taste of urhu_n toi  titotFol... P.ti,,l population;pi
amngousee                                 A.t 17,  n   198  an.1y                          veru60e lire ofd gouseto ld   - Tsa  erb fsshodi. - . n tal,  rba, ad-geal
total.poplaio  byaead  a   n                  Shl  menlisy and .. fernifin y runs,           th  hau:,tEhod  for  dnbnithoe  purposes.d.
Prooeio  preononfo    anuit  rte  ompls  of vbrlil  leel datau~            HvOUSI        broNasospG505-rst  ohn   n  erl-Aerg   a
l_evlso  female lif   a            1ptn 7o dnhillag  an 77.1i,years..Tb. pa1a-                                          -1....ng,  h-peslophltnllgdalue  e-peranetal eonr    n
lathotuoryte n.bydasind  n  oftoesr                 dmiais   f   otlt                    oIeto    oll      iegs  :."abnhairo-t-iotty     in   ol y q -atern at  laddecag
se    eriiy  raa         for projttntye purp"nes.ho natal,I u fbat   taudrure                                             1 dwellns  esetivlp
Snatioovy rosanto -l a stataIonrypoultIon thr  inhno gI_o   atnor-
E-hl--ted on   the bas .isgo.th  projensed       i. nbaren blsete    f thi popu7tlain pi mayetot-g   ppgetss   orui      'tetue    ble    gdhl
to nb-tourlilty fandaf  pba rate  fdelueo  ferilip  rte  o rplee-.ear  hutL adutd" ifur dtffe_ntlength.iof primary q edmt atte; for..t
cat.  ..      .1.l _I levl.                                                                   outeles lot,  univrsa  oducetitg  enrolmeti may.ere   I   ern
aloe "tambe  reahed           tlcanar-tchol- tta, cb   nd  emae    Sapundhc aove  erona
Per sq. fan. aortsslnuoal lend - tompute  ashabove Sottagricultural land  essludeI
rely.                                                                          festiosl enrolment  earnes 100tscondar) - -o1_            taP a  tadstfttn
Pouato  ace Se buoturo foert tn)-  Th'i'd tie       . (hlA yeas)  wofen-oe71-                   eluetethofira11  tousrl,o  trir pogrms"tt  apeus  inde.pect-
64pors,  an.d   retire   (61 yorh an  ovr  em. pretagtc, of atd- Pea  PItenl   ra                               d Parme ts of acond     ly issntutod..'hlt.gd61
_1uata fIo.       mte.    eeu   -icl-  ,sa   osn   aeso   oa  rt-                            trt-nocarati  -otuag,an tanndc -f  Tou`l etden..   enrolled  i
ea t ppltions foe 1999i-6          ..hd-  h.y.1961-91, end          ar197p1-7ti.               coresoning levels.i                         ...   "   ~Xd           p.. -
Pauaito h.e.     taefesot brb..na.gss  rvso  ubnpps                                           dl literary ras  (emeteln  -   biterte.  fdlt  (alerradad  eIe
lenten  foe1911-tI, 161-71, sod1971-if.                                ss.f partonag   ofsteal ada, p- pufc1l- age. 1 pp           r a nd..-   .ton.dr
Crude treb lan  (ret touceod  - Aseal liwn   irthe  ee thoaend of  id-yea
Ped  oahtte(a k        ebMi oyuppsafid) P -  A qmualde kib per  tbsgn  of0  mId-year        Pasne  tarnd.     (prtouad_pt          ain)-Pnese   uc   eplc    a
populatio; 1969,  971, sad1976 dat,                        tars nanieg les that egbn persns; esoldes ambsaa:eea,  araea ca
liu    eroato1tt-vraenmero   agbes   emfml1ba2omilne                                                  orbitler.
of birnbooosrol  ootten sdorfal      fnainlfml  pideyleg  progam                     see ,d to -thns;  atafo  rees lyar  may an hela psbatrems
Pott  PlateP       tar r1ro  of  arie   ates   -t Pratnagf oft. mried-                        cutl    blse    linenieg
Rte  ef  tid-rabageg   (1-h    pers  ebo see .t bts-ooarf device p.p             CT-nios(e  tosn   oaeio)-i eevrafebedctn
al  ntte   toe.   ssm.g   ru.gsrl  ulcpreose    oueis   tasade  stened _ti emoelveI
PlOt0111thiRICI5                                                     lesunrienandIn        1eas-lo  degs-anle   of TImn,ws Inhffct
Rdeaeicued      grgn  prouns  of  ePbtuty  nbsdonrr ssld-darlgnayer  inolsdlsgadgndc atees  geoaS  ote
na-1tional     60 averag   prou de print ergtn    91-1  17,anI9f   aa.sdYoio.
ParDule.  soh        of           A---Iea  dperthe ofreirmets).- - Coptd-y.             OSMTfrom           p    h..d2Plt-   -P..  a   .-.Pi.-.
energy.P  160 1qu    970en   of urn 7fod suplie  available inghttptery paP tb pita      Lah-t... .S
yet'  . da.f Av~ailable- suppl9iestopi   dnsto- fbutin  ipot  loe                         ee ilabory Pot- thuadsi    roealyaniapesn.letdn
quassisle  used..to Pee  protessl le11g, andlosesI,19D in      970ilh a.d 19qu77e          tadiinsRo-i    -na  otosrro   e              non lcomparale  f91  1971 and .A
nets suere  astimned by f    hP.base   on ph ttlogle 1 seeds  fo tor-pftt-        19 adata.'...I                                   f                   ftdi   .
and  Ios diriuston  o  poueis  anld alowng 11 ftts_              fe  atea              Ac tnulnuro  f     dcren   -.,Labor forte   - I  - ormng  fo tp.,bl bning. end
household tecel; lthl-h, -1971. so   197daa                                       fisIn  amY (pecetag   of  ona pplabor fote  19V     1  197  bed 1978 gte.
to  suppl  ufdford  peeda i lt.spl   ffo   sdfnda   bv.R-                                adoeeliy  eatrs   gat                sph  nna ofttllao   otsd90
fureennfo  al  aotie   etblsbdbyfil  rvie  oetolt1fil 1 and  1979 data.d                                                           p
ardsare.  .ee  than thseofTigrmsoftoa  pee innl  ad 13d grams of
torld  ood lrvey;A9g1-h, 197  and-f19ff data.        t  '                                k19th, 1970  ad  1971 dan. y f a se ace.j. S .IP' i. prltpandnria- eeleoai
eti...d fromastPls ad.l pulus .inghtas par6op;  965        - 197,a1971 dand17t    es       nnmr oedny no-tal   fpplto   alsi   n   5adoe
Chl  (gsr     -9Motliytaefeetouad  -  stldah  par thann   to                                  to th  tonal labot fato
tris  ay  derived   fro   life tablesi161  197l  and 19ff dat.fl  PISS..pM.I FlORCE                    ll
P001/          Tjb lB                                                                       PeIrnepion-t ~   .pP   -   . al neb oF.-(h Po .o . droc  (bt E-in  ah an  ktid) p- Reteiedbydinbes
lie   -oti'ar d fan Bles  (vases) - Averag  number, of years of lifed ealsieg                 -Ipars-, rtde ..7 plrdebt,  o s  11ptes,,                n  poores  Ag prtee
at...n.  19.f  1079 atd 197  dana.           ll 11   :d.., -                   t-            S      t'                                                      ''
ofIage pe  shoaeo  liedirths                                                              Estimated g   F..       F-. Abtlu- Povert 1b-  f- Lave   p.-t.g earcc Lts 1 - lsb- end rral
Attes to-f   ae  (preteent of p   e.lti-uladt   1- total, arhas. an  rra -.                  Abouepvryicm   ee   sta   ooelvlblnwitammea
hu.... ofI yIlle (tonal5, urban, and rua)1t9         eaos77tec   osf                         ntitnlyadqaeda  pit. ense--              rnilI"Ise-fo        h-ueetat icno
actor supply (toolades senated surf are waters or useceaned bat se-rioninamisanad  afffetrdabla.-:'9'6'"I97)..d  97'sd.t.
Osoorsut as tht from   rosarne   boratoec, apengs, an  sanitay nails  an  fetered tenntor Pvarny Itonebleel.flitpar ocrer) -.ahe -andrural 
fo    lytl  o   stat1 Iont  doate  eoIfrathn d0 meer dfri-abtue    nay he               personl isioya of-n eov  gr.   fbar- level Sc der.1ived  from  nb  rural
runall i     I attest , e I imlythat the:i boosotf  or easer  of th.hushl-d              Plevel in.i. aduine-orhtercs  ofliin in1 ura  cres.iti                          -
coohav  so sand    diyoorios   parth l      of shei day  in fen.in  the              estimatedPplto  Brin   beout Poverty1. team  fev1t  (porat) -f urba
famI ly' snore5sees,                                                                        sdtme t.1aopunof ppolaion2(rbanand  uralts                      .h era ."bm.lte -'tr
rurl1 -FNmbr  ofly peope1(ona,  urbn,  sad caat  seg..ed.byee-o-es
po   t.ma    -tolud  the-nliectin sirI  -dispomal     ."i     p, with or  dlnhest  treaneot,                       oonute aolpsi         g andProeet ot.d leAnfnac
pit prute  and simiard pis ..e97ldastloll fhenalt"nI ..9-h



- 26 -                                   ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979:                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln                1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979
GNP at Market Prices            19,370    100.0          6.4       7.7      7.1   7.0   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment        5,082      26.2         6.7       9.4    19.7   9.5  10.5
Gross National Saving            6,173      31.9           .
Exports of Goods, NFS           11,744      60.6         6.0       7.9      3.9   7.9  10.1
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,774      50.5         2.9       6.9    13.7  13.9  18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Output              Employment         Output Per Worker
U$Mln      7          Ml       ZwS$                
Agriculture               4,041      25.6         2.0    43.9        2,049       58.5
Industry                  5,017     31.8         0.9    20.0         5,568      159.0
Services                  6,701     42.5          1.6    36.1        4,188      119.6
Total/Average       15,759    100.0          4.5   100.0         3,502      100.0
GOVERNNENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                       7 of GDP
1979          1979         1971-75         1976/7P
Current Receipts                  12,424          28.0           24.0            27.5
Current Expenditures               9,875          22.3           22.5            24.5
Public Authorities Surplus            369          0.8            0.8             1.1
Current Surplus                    2,918            .6            2.3             4.1
Development Expenditures           5,544          12.5           10.8            12.4
Foreign Borrowing (net)               754          1.7            2.3             1.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES        1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1970
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money          4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,72q  10,001  12,769  14,861  17,520  21,738
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036   3,583   3,379   3,873
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                       2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471   8,Q70  11,627  14.ln9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                   33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4    46.4    48.n    49.O
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                 101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index             1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4        4.5      2.6      4.P     4.9      3.6
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                        -8.4   25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3    18.0    -5.7    13.7
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                        21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8    20.1    29.6    21.3
. not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 27 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTSi (AVERAGE 1976-79)
(US$ Million)
1977   1978   1979
(US$ million)                                               %
Exports f.o.b.                  6,038  7,295  10,857   Rubber                       1,561    21.2
Imports f.o.b.                  4,467  5,749   7,860   Timber                       1,235    16.8
Nonfactor Services (net)         -505   -651  -1,027   Petroleum                    1,058    14.4
Resource Gap (deficit)          1,066    895   1,970   Tin                            820    11.1
Factor Services (net)            -517   -606    -880   Palm Oil                       800    10.9
Net Transfers                     -32    -42      -53   All Other Commodities    1,880    25.6
Balance on Current Account        517    247   1,037
Total                7,360   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         477    542      594
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                   644  1,044      978   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Amortization                    318    558      245
Subtotal                        326    486      733                                     US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.               -644   -464  -1,121   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   3,004
Increase in Reserves (-)         -199   -269  -1,244   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   3,004
International Reserves          2,973  3,243   4,487
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                     %
Imports                         578    634
Exports                         854  1,010             Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed        4.0
Of which:  Crude Petro-                             Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum            770    969            Total Outstanding & Disbursed         4.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            489.46
1971              3.05           0.33               Undisbursed                         516.84
1972              2.82           0.35               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,006.30
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
/a Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 28-                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF December 31, 1980)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose                       Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-one loans fully disbursed                                399.47
810     1972   Malaysia          Education (II)                15.50       0.73
880     1973   Malaysia          Population                     5.00       1.20
931     1973   Malaysia          Highway (II)                  19.50       3.28
967     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               40.00       3.43
973     1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00        28.11
974     1974   Malaysia          Education (III)               19.00       8.39
1044     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               36.00      16.53
1115     1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50      11.78
1178     1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                   35.00       7.40
1213     1976   Malaysia          Sewerage                      21.50      12.39
1214     1976   Malaysia          Urban Transport (II)          26.00      13.12
1294     1976   Malaysia          Rural Development             21.00      15.70
1329     1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                35.00      29.09
1376     1977   Malaysia          Highway (III)                 35.00      18.68
1443     1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                  22.00      12.61
1444     1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                    39.00      31.67
1493     1978   Malaysia          National Extension            19.00      17.69
1522     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00        24.62
1580     1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                    13.00       8.27
1590     1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement               28.00      26.51
1608     1978   Malaysia          Population (II)               17.00      16.20
1618     1978   Malaysia          Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50        16.79
1632     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50        22.19
1657     1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                 38.00      36.92
1717     1979   Malaysia          Irrigation                    31.00      28.56
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX                      50.00      50.00
1899     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Development /a  25.00        25.00
1900     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Credit /a         30.00      30.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                    1,157.47
of which has been repaid                            136.29
Total now outstanding                              1,021.18
Amount sold                                44.81
of which has been repaid                29.93       14.88
Total loans now held by Bank                        1,006.30
Total undisbursed                                               516.84
/a Not effective as of December 31, 1980.



- 29 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF December 31, 1]980)
Type of         Amount in US$ million
Year                                        business       Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                  financing        -     1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                     Cement         1.28      0.28      1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                 Steel          2.45      1.01      3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                 Steel             -     0.23       0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.        Textiles        1.25      0.25      1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                  financing        -     0.63       0.63
Total gross commitment                               4.98     3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                  4.09      3.46      7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                    0.89     0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                     _           -       _



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /_
GENERAL AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date:  May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of clearing 81,000 acres of land and
planting about 65,000 acres of oil palms, construction of 5 palm oil mills,
8 villages, roads, provision for power and water, and settlement of
6,500 families.
About 82,800 acres have been cleared and 72,500 acres of oil palms
have been planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory.
Production has recovered from initially disappointing levels and all schemes
are now in production. A major resupplying program to replace losses to
game is underway and boundary trenches have been completed. Due to delays
in infrastructure development, village development is one to three years
behind schedule. About 4,080 settler houses have been constructed and
3,980 families settled.  Rising timber prices and labor shortages are also
creating difficulties for contractors. Regular coordination committee
meetings have improved interagency relationships, but shortfalls in
construction of water supply and access roads will cause some further
slippage. About 1,130 miles of agricultural roads have been constructed.
The Lok Heng mill is under construction and expected to be operative by
mid-1981.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 63,000 acres of land and
planting and maintenance of about 55,000 acres of oil palms; construction
of three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
About 60,200 acres have been cleared and 52,500 acres planted to oil
palm. On four schemes, 25% of palms were damaged by game. Perimeter trenches
are being dug and seedlings resupplied. So far, 2,238 houses have been
completed and 1,854 settlers have moved into schemes 1, 2, 4, and 5. The
Bahau-Keratong highway has been opened for all traffic and the project area is
no longer isolated. About 625 miles of agricultural works have been
constructed. The second mill is under construction and expected to be
operative by spring 1981.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen research programs
and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of Agriculture.
The project was restructured in July/August 1979 to cover all
agricultural research programs of the Institute, substantially reduce the
man-years of consultants, reduce the loan from $28.5 million to $20.5 million,
and extend the Closing Date to June 1984. Progress since restructuring
has generally been satisfactory except for the hiring of consultants.
Loan No. 1493  National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/state
relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the main
constraints are (a) employment of project staff as temporary employees due to
the federal system, and (b) the inability of the Public Works Department to
prepare timely civil works designs. The interest and enthusiasm in the T&V
extension methodology has spread. However, some of the states are suffering
from (i) lack of adequate staff to provide effective supervision and
guidance and to separate extension and regulatory functions at the field level
and (ii) lack of full understanding of the concept of impact points. Sabah
and Sarawak have not yet accepted federal control of staff; physical
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in Sarawak.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of
62,000 acres of rubber, up to 10,000 acres of cocoa and 500 acres of
experimental plantings of other crops in the states of Pahang and Negri
Sembilan; recruitment and settlement of 6,200 rubber smallholders and 1,500



- 32 -                   ANNE X II
Page 5 of 14 pages
hired laborers; and construction of necessary housing and infrastructure
facilities. About 29,000 acres have been cleared and 23,000 acres planted to
rubber.
Clearing and planting operations are seriously delayed in Pahang
State due to delayed forest clearances by the State. FELDA is reviewing
alternative development proposals to offset slow development in Pahang, one
possibility being the expansion of the project areas in Negri Sembilan.
Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory.  The cocoa planting
program has been tentatively postponed until 1983 pending further soil and
climatological studies. A start has been made (100 acres) with the crop
diversification experimental program.  Some fruit and annual food crops will
be grown on areas of 5 to 50 acres each.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 40,500 acres of
traditional MT Coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, fruits, etc.;
re/new planting of about 17,000 acres with hybrid coconuts and associated cash
crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importation of about
6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of about 3,350 integrated
dairy and beef operations; and the strengthening of support services for crop
and dairy production.
The overall crop component is ahead of schedule but with uneven
performance. About 3,800 farm families have received assistance to rehabili-
tate 13,000 acres and replant 2,650 acres in 1979. The dairy/beef component
is about one year behind schedule due to a delay in importing crossbred
heifers. However, the scheduled delivery of 6,600 imported crossbred heifers
from early 1981 through mid-1982 should help the livestock component to catch
up to the implementation schedule. Additional staff recruitment and training
programs are also behind schedule but substantial progress is now being made.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Assistance will be provided to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR land settle-
ment schemes to complete development of their holdings and to replant or
rehabilitate existing crops. One thousand eight hundred (1,800) families
will be settled to develop landholdings on the schemes.  Basic infrastructure
will be completed on the schemes and TAKDIR will be strengthened.



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Pape 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1900 Rural Credit Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of December 1, 1980;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to support the expansion of BPM's portfolio
of agricultural production credits, and term loans for rural development and
increased agricultural production.
IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 973  Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in the tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to introduce intercropping and
other changes in cropping patterns, construction of farmers development
centers, and improvements in research and extension. Civil works got off to a
slow start and are about 3 years behind schedule, but progress is now
accelerating. Staffing and land acquisition problems have been largely
overcome. Work is progressing on drainage and farm road contracts. Construc-
tion of the Macap Dam began in October 1979 and should be comp:Leted in October
1981. Bids have been invited for Bekok and Sembrong dams. Progress on the
agricultural side is generally satisfactory, particularly in developing an
integrated agricultural service system to coordinate the efforts of the
crop-based development agencies with the extension activities in the project
area. Work is also proceeding on the preparation of a second phase project.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km of
rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers  development centers; and
establishment of agricultural extension services. Implementation of civil
works has fallen about four years behind schedule, due mainly to staffing
shortages (particularly at DID headquarters for design and tendering), delays
in land acquisition, the need for studies to define the final alignments of
flood protection bunds and the longer construction periods necessitated by
lack of adequate construction capability. Progress on the establishment of
agricultural support services is generally satisfactory. Project completion
is expected by December 1984.



- 34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1444  National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Mlillion
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems with
a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout Malaysia;
technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equipment and a
feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project. Construction is
proceeding satisfactorily and most schemes should be completed on schedule
by the end of 1982, although some work may extend into mid-1983. Of the
195 proposed schemes to be implemented under the project, 67 schemes have
been rejected/deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 18 new
schemes have been added; the revised number of schemes proposed under the
project is now 146. Of these, 111 have been approved by the Bank for inclu-
sion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and Evaluation
Team. Construction of 22 schemes had been completed and 64 schemes were
under construction as of June 30, 1980. The final draft of the feasi-
bility report for the Rompin-Endau Project was submitted by the consultants
to the Government in December 1979.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage work for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started out about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but no significant progress has been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. A draft agricultural
services operation manual has been prepared. The project is expected to be
completed by end-1983, about one year behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensifed agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985, two
years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Mlillion Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, where storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project
(Loan 434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary
irrigation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement of
operation and maintenance facilities, drainage and coastal protection works
serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Significant steps have been made toward
the formation of extension service units in both the project and nonproject
command areas. A draft agricultural service operations manual and a list of
proposals for pilot studies have been prepared. Project completion is now
expected end-1985 as compared to end-1983 at appraisal.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project provides for: (a) educational television in Peninsular
Malaysia; (b) a national curriculum development center; (c) a science
university; and (d) technical and vocational secondary schools. Physically
the project has been completed and disbursement is practically complete. The
Closing Date will not be extended.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Project includes eight general secondary schools, four teacher
training colleges and one polytechnic institute in Peninsular Malaysia and
education mass media in Sabah/Sarawak. Project implementation is about
three years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design
and tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. The implementation staff has been expanded and
strengthened, and construction is in progress at all project locations.
Disbursements are improving.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, [977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction of
approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project total)
is satisfactory. Over 50% of the primary schools have been completed; the
remaining project items are under construction.
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of MIarch 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training. Implementation performance is good, and overall the project
is on, or slightly ahead of, schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Extension of Prai Power Station under the Seventh Power Project is
proceeding satisfactorily, about 98% complete at the end of September 1980.
Units No. 4 and 5 were taken over by NEB in December 1979 and June 1980,
respectively. Unit No. 6 was commissioned in October 1980.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress on the Pasir Gudang Thermal Power Station under the Eighth
Power Project was about 50% complete at the end of September 1980, about 3
months behind the revised schedule due to bad weather in the early part of
1980 and the shortage of skilled labor.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 MIillion Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project, estimated to cost $232.9 million, will be cofinanced by
Commonwealth Development Corporation (UK), Canadian International Development
Agency, Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) and commercial banks. It



- 37 -                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
includes construction of two dams and hydroelectric power stations (192 MW)
and about 174 km of transmission lines and associated substations. Site
preparatory works have commenced. Contracts for major electrical and
mechanical works have been awarded.
Loan 1213-MA Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing.
Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have created serious
problems but these are now being solved. Sewerage surcharges on water bills
were instituted after delays. Compliance with covenants regarding long-term
sewerage and urban planning in Selangor State is lagging. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about two years behind the original
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and East
Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region of
North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project, several months after its original completion date, was
about 95% complete. All studies and detailed engineering were completed. The
new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway was open to traffic for about 80% of its



- 38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
length by the end of 1977, and except for a one-mile section at the northern
end, the balance of the Expressway and its access ramps were opehed to traffic
by the beginning of June 1979. The northern extremity, while completed, will
be open to traffic in about June 1981, after the completion of the interchange
and access ramps which form part of the Kuala Lumpur Traffic Dispersal Scheme
(Loan No. 1214). The Expressway is operating fairly well under traffic and
Government is taking steps to remove traffic hazards which had been created
by unauthorized use of road and shoulders for commercial activities. The
Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Road improvement works have been completed and the
entire length of the road is open to traffic. Difficulties with land
acquisition have been largely responsible for long delays in the completion of
the widening and improvement works for the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road,
construction of which began in November 1976; it is now 90% completed.
Construction costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project
execution combined with rapid inflation and the total project cost is now
estimated at US$53 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million,
an increase of 43%.
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and
consultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
The project overall is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in September
1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is completed.
Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one has recently been
rescinded and was assigned to the other contractor who was the second lowest
bidder. The Highway Maintenance and Road Upgrading Program in Sabah is now
proceeding satisfactorily with the help of consultants but the program is more
than a year behind schedule. Progress is now satisfactory on the Pavement
Strengthening Program in the three pilot states in Peninsular Malaysia, but
the reorganization and upgrading of the State Maintenance Sections and of the
Maintenance Unit within the Federal Public Works Department is behind
schedule, primarily due to staff shortages. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu
in Sabah and the transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia have been
completed. Procurement of the first and second tranches of maintenance
equipment for the Sabah Highway Maintenance Program has been completed.
Proposals for procurement of additional equipment and some technical
assistance, which would represent the balance of the loan, is under
preparation.



- 39 -                NMNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabali, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic gr-owth and to
replace worn-out items; and (c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports
Authority by providing technical assistance and staff training. Civil works
commenced in December 1979 and are about 35% complete.  Traffic and financial
results for 1980 were generally better than forecasted. Management
consultants completed field work in July 1980 and a draft final report in
December 1980, which is now being reviewed by the Sabah Ports Authority.
POPULATION
Loan No. 880   First Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The objective of the project is to: (a) strengthen ad[ministration
of the family planning program; (b) extend family planning services to rural
areas; (c) expedite in-service training of medical and paramedical personnel
in family planning; (d) introduce population education in schools; (e)
improve family planning, nutrition and health education programs; for the rural
population; (f) broaden research and evaluation through establishment of
population research centers.
The National Family Planning Board (NFPB), by activating the
national and state level committees and subcommittees, has recently gained
greater managerial control over project implementation. With the creation
of the Project Construction Coordination Unit (PCCU), the Government has
succeeded in halting the slow progress in the civil works. To date, 453
buildings out of a total of 571 have been completed and a further 95 are
under construction. According to the revised schedule, construction of some
facilities will be completed only by mid-1981. Due to this delay, the closing
date has been extended to December 31, 1981. Annual contraceptive acceptors
rose from about 75,000 in 1976 to over 87,000 in 1979; nearly 40% of these
acceptors were reported to have been recruited through the integrated
rural health facilities supported through the project. The percentage of
women in childbearing age using contraception increased from 16% in 1970 to
over 39% in 1978. The estimated rate of current users of contraceptives is
about 45% of the women in reproductive age.



- 40 -                ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 MIillion
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the
improvement of maternal and child health.
Due to recent changes in several key management positions in the
Ministry of Health and National Family Planning Board and those agencies
preoccupation with the preparation of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, progress of
project implementation has slowed down. Procurement of equipment and vehicles
is proceeding on schedule. National program performance, in terms of the
number of new acceptors, reached an all time high of over 87,000 during 1979
compared to about 85,000 in 1978. Project components related to health in
Sarawak and those under the Ministry of Agriculture in the whole of Malaysia
are progressing well. Of the 200 buildings under the project, sites for 150
have been acquired, of which 22 are either under construction or have been
tendered. The Government has taken action to locate and acquire sites for the
remaining 50 buildings. NFPB will review NFSC building plans in terms of its
special functional requirements and seek Bank-s comments prior to its final-
ization. Considerable progress has been made in establishing specialized
services, training, and research under the National Family Planning Center.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots
for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure services for



- 41 -                  ANMNX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
ment and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. The major
problem in project implementation has been the Government's unwillingness to
pursue the transport policy measures. Bus and minibus services have not been
expanded significantly, only one priority lane for buses has been introduced
and area road pricing has been delayed indefinitely. After initial delays,
new road construction, road and intersection improvements and traffic signal
procurement and installation have generally proceeded satisfactorily,
although problems are being experienced with one contract for major roadworks.
Execution of the residential components has been unsatisfactory due to
administrative problems and the Government's lack of commitment to the
policies on which the components are based.



- 42 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
TRANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    - 1-1/2 years
(b) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                               - June 10, 1980
(c)  Date of completion of negotiations:   - January 29, 1980
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:           - July 1, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) The appointment of a suitably qualified Project Coordinator
(para. 43); and
(ii) the establishment of the Steering Committee (para. 43).
B. Other Conditions
(i)  consultants engaged under the project would be employed under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 39);
(ii)  the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts
for the project which would be collated by the Project
Coordinator, and the Government would furnish the Bank
such information regarding these accounts as the Bank might
reasonably request (para. 42);
(iii)  the Government would ensure that adequate funds are allocated
to the National Padi and Rice Authority and the Farmers; Organization
Authority to provide padi drying, storage, milling and marketing
facilities as required (para. 45);



- 43 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) DID would prepare, on completion of final design, a designer's
operations manual covering major project works, (para. 45)
and the Perak Department of Agriculture would Drepare an
agricultural services operations manual as a guide for proiect
implementation staff by December 31, 1984 (para. 47);
(v) the Department of Agriculture would develop the seed production
center at Titi Gantong with additional capacity to provide imDroved
seed for the project (para. 47);
(vi) the Government would forward to the Bank for review and
comment by December 31, 1981 the detailed implementation
schedule for provision of township facilities (para. 49);
(vii)  the Government would forward to the Bank for review and
comment by December 31, 1981, the settler selection criteria
and the draft Government-settler agreement (para. 50);
(viii) The Government would submit to the Bank for review and comment
by December 31, 1982, detailed proposals for monitoring and
evaluation of the project (para. 53); and
(ix) The Government would take all measures necessary to ensure that
the design, construction and operation of the project works
would be carried out in accordance with appropriate ecological
and environmental standards (para. 54).






IBRD i4766
SEPTFPMBRE 198S
Typical Layout of Irrigalion and Drainage                                             100055              MALAYSIA                             101"S1
FacI lIHes n RBC Area                                                                          AP                                               J
ANS-PERAK AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_ FarmRoVd F ~ -2rSM-                               // / ,, gIRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM
.   :1 i                          gx,/y~~~~~~~~"'                   _____
if                              ~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING RICE AREA
if :        (E 0.  / T/  ,- /    2ELOKSENA  NEW RICEAREA
e -40-.                            - 4015'        1Y/    /                                    NEW TREE CROP AREA                                 4o15'
0.  I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  PRPOE
--0 -------- 'F M                                                                       R7,'E  MAIN CANAL.
i   1   Farm Lot |SO M  .        4W/,,,,,/,/   XJ)                     _               ER~~~~~~~~~A.CH CANAvLS
jE'!   ~~            _______  ______ ~SECONDARY CANALS
0        I 4   t i              j 8t /J',  ' .~~~~~  -~-- MAIN DRAINS
jJ7~ ~ ~~~~~~~-----   -----SECONDARY DRAINS
i3jIzz       4                      tt//   .                                              \  _       __ FLOOO EMBAIIKMENT
_                                                           + l  1riXTIDAL CONTROL GATES
050 Coor~~~~o(             lf'//-~~~~0~000PP~~~0l   N    --  4////~~~~~ I~~       REL IVILLS
Fa.- RdoM                       4       /                                        ,..   COCOA Ml LLS
PALM 01 L N LL
S rOoRE  /  ,                   4>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLE 
/;g; /  X   Z   /r g     X   j  ( KILOMETERS
'I                 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                             MILES~~~~~~~~~0 1          
Af--- /iffi R B t A  R  E//
/   t  1 A A V   >/<,S
/1                                                                    //   \
:. ,  e --                 /                                                      //DSri   <  
-4        /                                                                                        /// 010< g/~losU/ 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sW IT Ih  II,



