                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 29325

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-40470)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300.0 MILLION

                       TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL




                                          FOR A

                     HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT - REFORSUS




                                     September 30, 2004




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                      R$1.00 = US$ 1.01 (April 1996 - Appraisal)
                                     US$ 1.00 = RS$3.10 (June 2004)

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 -  December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANVISA    Agencia Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária (National Agency for Disease
          Surveillance)
BB        Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (National Economic
          and Social Development Bank)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CES       Conselho Estadual de Saúde (State Health Council)
CIB       Comissão Intergestores Bipartite (Bipartite Managerial Committee)
CIT       Comissão Intergestores Tripartite (Tripartite Managerial Committee
CMS       Conselho Municipal de Saúde (Municipal Health Council)
CNS       Conselho Nacional de Saúde (National Health Council)
DIPE      Diretoria de Investimentos e Projetos Estratégicos (Investment and Strategic
          Projects Directorate of the MS
FHEMIG    Fundação Hospitalar do Estado de Minas Gerais (Hospital Foundation of the
          State of Minas Gerais)
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Reprt
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MS        Ministério da Saúde (Ministry of Health)
NOAS      Normas Operacionais de Atenção à Saúde (Operational Health Care Norms)
NOB/96    Normas de Operação Básicas (Basic Operational Norms for Health Care) of
          1996
PA-I      Programmatic Area I (Area Programática I)
PA-II     Programmatic Area II (Area Programática II)
PA-III    Programmatic Area III (Area Programática III)
PA-IV     Programmatic Area III (Area Programática IV)
PAB       Piso Assistencial Básico (Basic Health "Spending-floor")
PCD       Project Concept Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PSF       Programa de Saúde da Família (Family Health Program)
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QSA       Quality Supervision Assessment

REFORSUS Health Sector Reform Project
RNIS      National Health Information Network
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SAS      Secretaria de Assistência à Saúde (Health Services Secretariat)
SE       Secretaria Executiva (Executive Secretariat)
SES      Secretaria Estadual de Saúde (State Health Secretariat)
SAS       Secretaria de Assistência à Saúde (Health Services Secretariat)
SILAB    Sistema de Gerenciamento e Apoio aos Laboratórios Centrais de Saúde Pública
         (Management Information System for Central Public Health Laboratories)
SIM      Sistema de Informação de Mortalidade (Mortality Information System)
SIOPS    Sistema de Informação sobre Orçamento Público de Saúde (National Health
         Accounts System)
SUS      Sistema Único de Saúde (Unified Health System)
SMS      Secretaria Municipal de Saúde (Municipal Health Secretariat)
UATR     Unidades de Apoio Técnico Regional (Regional Technical Units of the PCU)




                             Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                          Country Director:     Vinod Thomas
                            Sector Director:    Ana-María Arriagada
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Sandra Rosenhouse

                                           BRAZIL
                     BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 40

Project ID: P006554                                                  Project Name: BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -
                                                                     REFORSUS
Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse                                       TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-40470
                            REFORSUS
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (92%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/30/1995                                     Effective: 10/15/1996                12/24/1996
     Appraisal: 05/21/1996                                         MTR: 06/15/1998                  11/19/1999
      Approval: 06/20/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Federative Republic of Brazil/Ministry of Health
                      Other Partners:      Inter-American Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:                Ana-María Arriagada                            Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:             Sandra Rosenhouse                              Alexandre Abrantes
ICR Primary Author:             Sandra Rosenhouse; Dariush
                                Akhavan; Anna Sant'Anna


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Brazil Health Sector Reform Project--REFORSUS, was designed to: (a) improve the delivery of
health care under the Unified Health System (Sistema Único de Saúde--SUS), which is the sole source of
publicly subsidized care for the poor; and (b) assist the government in introducing policy reforms to
improve the financial sustainability and efficiency of the SUS.

The project aimed to achieve these objectives through two main interventions. First, by creating a
decentralized framework for investments in subprojects to rehabilitate infrastructure and provide
equipment, training, management support and modernization to improve the quality of services in the SUS
network. Second, by financing studies and research designed to assist the government in advancing its
sector reform agenda. The project was also conceived as the main instrument of a continuous dialogue
between the government and the Bank on broad health policy issues.

The US$300.0 million IBRD loan approved in June 1996, was complemented by a parallel US$350.0
million loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component I - Investment Fund (US$650.0 million without contingencies or 86.7 percent of total project
cost as appraised). The fund was to finance improved capacity and efficiency of service providers in the
SUS network, including ambulatory and hospital facilities that were either public or philanthropic. Funds
could be spent on building completion, rehabilitation, and/or expansion, on equipment, and on managerial
improvements. The aim was to stop the deterioration of infrastructure and compensate for the
technological deficit caused by years of under financing, poor management, and lack of maintenance. Four
programmatic investment areas were defined as eligible for funding: Programmatic Area I (PA-I) covering
the physical and technological rehabilitation of existing health facilities, with emphasis on improving the
quality and efficiency of maternity and neonatal services, and of emergency services in large urban areas.
Programmatic Area II (PA-II) supported training for staff of the newly created Family Health Program
(Programa de Saúde da Família--PSF). Programmatic Area III (PA-III) financed expansion and quality
improvements of the national blood bank network. Programmatic Area IV (PA-IV) supported the
expansion and improvements in quality of the public health laboratory network.

The selection of subprojects aimed to maximize the investment impact on the health of the population, as
well as promote the reorganization of the health care model. The strategy was to complete unfinished
facilities, rehabilitate existing ones and, concomitantly, modernize the managerial capacity of service
providers. Financing for rehabilitation and equipment investments was to be conditioned on the
establishment of performance contracts and the satisfactory implementation of management development
in: cost accounting, billing and cost-recovery for services, quality standards for maternal care, control of
hospital infections, and safe management of hazardous wastes. It was estimated that 55 percent of the
investment would benefit ambulatory facilities and 45 percent would benefit hospitals. Funds would be
accessed on a competitive basis by State and Municipal Health Secretariats, inter-municipal consortia, or
philanthropic health care providers through the preparation of subproject proposals.

The combined value of subprojects in each state was not to exceed a predetermined investment ceiling
established for the state. The formula used to determine investment ceilings was designed to reduce the gap



                                                      - 2 -

between poor and non-poor states and was based on population size and relative need (as defined by gaps
in SUS per/capita expenditures for health between states). The formula used to allocate the resources was
intended exclusively for PA-I. Funds for the other programmatic areas were to be allocated by the Ministry
of Health (Ministério da Saúde--MS) on the basis of technical criteria. All subprojects anticipated
cost-sharing by beneficiaries, expected to average 15 percent, and vary from 10 percent to 20 percent,
depending on the share of SUS patients served by the facility (facilities with a share of less than 70 percent
SUS patients were not eligible). Competition among subproject proposals and implementation efficiency
was to be stimulated by the proviso that unused funds in one state could be reallocated to another state.
Technical assistance would be provided to help less developed proponents in subproject preparation.

Component II - Institutional Development (US$50.0 million without contingencies or 6.7 percent of total
project cost as appraised). This component aimed to improve the management of the SUS as a whole, by
financing technical assistance, studies and dissemination activities pertaining to policy reform priorities,
with special emphasis on the financial sustainability of the system. The main areas of concentration were
the development of: (a) instruments to facilitate the creation of a national heath information and evaluation
system; (b) capacity to formulate decentralized health policies; (c) administrative capacity of SUS
managers; and (d) initiatives fostering quality assurance of health systems and services. Specific topics
mentioned in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) include: (a) a framework for pricing and reimbursing
health care providers, based on continuous monitoring of costs and on the operation of a permanent
Chamber of Health Care Prices; (b) a list of priority health benefits to be financed by the SUS, based on
the analysis of the burden of disease and relative cost-effectiveness of interventions; (c) differential
reimbursement schedules favoring more cost-effective interventions; (d) cost-recovery for care provided to
privately-insured patients under the SUS; (d) fraud control through various measures, including
decentralization of the National Audit System to states and municipalities, improved use of information and
control over changes made by private hospitals to the SUS, upgrading of management information systems
for reimbursements; and (e) the establishment and dissemination of quality standards for maternal care,
hospital infection control, and safe collection and disposal of medical wastes and materials. Specific
activities would be planned on a yearly basis and be carried out under contract with national and
international consultants and research institutions. This subcomponent also financed project administration
and supervision of subprojects funded under Component I.

Project Administration. The project would be administered by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) linked
to the Health Services Secretariat (Secretaria de Assistência à Saúde, SAS) of the MS, with the assistance
of three Regional Technical Units (Unidades de Apoio Técnico Regional--UATR). However, the policy
framework for the project was to be set by the National Health Council (Conselho Nacional de Saúde
--CNS) made up of the Minister of Health and the 27 State Health Secretaries. The Tripartite Managerial
Commission (Comissão Intergestores Tripartite--CIT), which includes representatives from the MS, the
National Council of State Health Secretaries (CONASS), and the National Council of Municipal Health
Secretaries (CONASEMS), was responsible for setting project priorities and for general oversight.
Regional units were responsible for technical supervision and evaluation of state-level activities. In each
state, the policy framework guiding project implementation was set by the State Health Council (Conselho
Estadual de Saúde--CES) and project priorities and supervision was entrusted to the Bipartite Managerial
Commission (Comissão Intergestores Bipartite--CIB) formed by the State Secretary of Health and the
Municipal Health Secretaries. Day-to-day planning and operational aspects of the projects at state level
was to be carried out by the State Health Secretariats (Secretaria Estadual de Saúde--SES). The
Municipal Health Secretariats (Secretaria Municipal de Saúde--SMS), together with the Municipal
Health Councils (Conselho Municipal de Saúde, CMS) were responsible for the analysis and presentation
of subproject proposals. The National Economic and Social Development Bank (Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social, BNDES) and the Bank of Brazil (Banco do Brasil, BB) were to act


                                                      - 3 -

as financial agents for the project with respect to Component I. The banks would be responsible for the
transfer of funds to finance subprojects as well as for physical and financial supervision of subprojects
costing more than US$3.0 million.

The responsibilities for subproject proposal analysis and approval were divided among several entities
depending on the cost of the subproject, as illustrated in the following table.

       Table 1: Responsibilities for Subproject Proposal Analysis and Approval
                                                                                      Approval of
        Subproject                 Subproject Proposal               Approval of        Contract
            Cost                         Analysis                    Subproject       between BB
         US$ `000                                                     Proposals      and Subproject
                                                                                       Beneficiary
        $50 - $349                      SMS·SES                          CIB              PCU
        $350-$3000                 SMS·SES·CIB·UATR                      PCU              PCU
        Over $3,000         SMS·SES·CIB·UGP·IADB or IBRD                  MS              PCU


3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised, yet there were some adjustments in implementation arrangements
during execution. Prior to Effectiveness, by government request and IBRD agreement, the proposed
participation of the BNDES as a financial agent for the project was eliminated (Loan Amendment dated
October 11, 1996). In 1999, after the devaluation of the real, government requested the introduction of a
new set of strategic investments under Component I to be administered centrally by the MS. This change
modified the implementation strategy for an estimated 12 percent of the investment in subprojects. The
strategic investments were directed to high-risk obstetrics and neonatal care, emergency and trauma care,
and information technology equipment for the Family Health Program (Programa de Saúde da Família,
PSF) and were consistent with the project objectives. This initiative contributed to increase the
implementation progress of Component I and helped to absorb extra local currency afforded by the sharp
devaluation of the Brazilian Real that occurred in January 1999.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. During implementation, several serious design flaws became apparent,
including weak implementation arrangements, underestimation of capacity of sub-national entities, and lack
of an independent subproject approval process, which adversely affected project implementation and the
achievement of objectives. The main factors, both positive and negative, in rating the quality at entry are
detailed below.

The focus of the project was fully consistent with the CAS, discussed by the Board in June 1995 and
updated in 1996, and incorporated findings and recommendations from recent economic and sector health
work. It also clearly responded to the Government's health sector priorities, namely, to restore and
improve the health service delivery capacity of SUS and to improve its efficiency and financial
sustainability. Preparation occurred at the end of a second wave (1990-1995) of health sector reforms
which emphasized the consolidation of a unified system (SUS), "municipalization" of service delivery, and
implementation of financial mechanisms for allocation of federal funds. Since this project came at the
height of this trend, the design of Component I was clearly influenced by these events, and the few studies
that were identified during project preparation for Component II ­and later carried out-- also responded to
health reform priorities at the time. An earlier phase of reforms (1984-1989) had focused on
inter-institutional restructuring, decentralization to the state level, establishment of mechanisms for social
participation, and setting of universality (the right to health) as the emerging system's core value. A third



                                                        - 4 -

wave (1996-2001) of reforms, which was carried out during project implementation, aimed to reorient the
health care model for basic care, separate institutional roles, enact legal and regulatory changes, introduce
alternative payment mechanisms to support basic care, and introduce measures to reduce the fragmentation
that extreme municipalization caused.

The design and rules of the investment fund were coherent with the decentralization of the health system.
The rules of operation of the fund, as reflected in the operational manual, ensured transparency. Selection
criteria for subproject proposals included all the necessary elements, including the demonstration of
coherence with the local health network, assessment of demand, an adequate hazardous waste management
plan, sufficient financial resources to carry out the subproject (i.e. counterpart funds) and to cover
recurrent costs once in operation, adequate human resources to utilize the investments, and a plan for
management modernization. The only aspect not included was the presentation of a functional analysis of
the proposed investments, a key element in large civil works.

Project design also ensured less unequal financing patterns than had historically been the case by
developing a formula to allocate funds to states under Programmatic Area I (PA-I). Allocations were to be
based on population, income, health status, and installed capacity. However, the actual formula utilized
was based on each state's share of the country's population and on its share of the total deficit or gap in
recurrent federal health care expenditures. While the approach was innovative in the Brazilian context, its
actual application did not consider the demand for health care nor address distribution within states.

The "open demand" approach used for PA-I funds, was appropriately complemented by investment
priorities targeting resources to interventions expected to have an important epidemiological impact on
health and those that promote the reorganization of health care delivery (including the strengthening of the
health care network for maternity and emergency services, the Family Health Program, and expansion and
quality improvement of the blood bank network and public health laboratories).

The general orientation of Component II was aligned with the reform policy of the Ministry of Health at the
time. A good analysis of health policy and the policy environment were carried out, including the drafting
of a detailed sectorial policy conditionality matrix. Innovative initiatives, including quality assurance and
more realistic pricing mechanisms were planned.

A formal Quality Assurance Group (QAG) quality at entry assessment was not carried out for this project.
However, shortly after effectiveness in 1997, QAG conducted a Quality Supervision Assessment (QSA).
At that time, the QSA rated project supervision as ("2") and stated that the project design could be
considered sound, although its implementability still needed to be tested, given its size and complexity.

Notwithstanding these important positive features, the project design falls short of being satisfactory
for the following reasons:

Poor Identification of Risks. Several important risks were not well identified, and in a few cases, the
proposed actions to mitigate risks were insufficient. Project risks were identified as (i) possible deviations
from the reform agenda that could undermine the sustainability of the investments; (ii) incomplete or poor
implementation; and (iii) lack of revenues to finance the incremental recurrent costs generated by the
project.

Inadequate Implementation Arrangements.          Poor implementation capacity was identified as a risk, but its
causes, particularly inadequate implementation arrangements for project management and for subproject
preparation, approval and supervision, were not fully assessed. Implementation arrangements greatly


                                                      - 5 -

underestimated the task of managing a large and complex national investment project. The initial structure
and size of the PCU was intended to facilitate rather than provide direct support to the technical and
financial implementation of the project. A small PCU and three small regional technical assistance units
(UATRs) were insufficient to manage more than 1,000 subprojects dispersed throughout 26 states.
Additional staff had to be hired to cope with the resulting workload. Moreover, implementation
arrangements mistakenly assumed that sub-national entities would have the capacity to prepare
sophisticated investment proposals, an issue that continues to be a problem today. The municipalization of
the health system had begun in earnest only five years earlier and both states and municipal governments
were poorly prepared to assume their new roles. Thus, states and municipalities were generally unable to
prepare good subproject proposals, carry them out efficiently, budget for recurrent expenditures generated
by the investments, and assess the impact of subprojects financed under Component I, as had been
expected. The project should have included significant capacity building for sub-national entities to
prepare them for project preparation, giving them orientation on key elements such as functional analyses,
definition of health networks, assessment of demand and basic management training as a precondition to
access to financing.

In addition, the time required to prepare quality subprojects was greatly underestimated. The combination
of weak implementing entities spread out all over the country and a small and inadequate PCU led to
unmanageable implementation. The only measure included to mitigate the risk of poor project management
was the participation of bank agents to assist in the financial management of subprojects. This proved to
be a limited measure given the complexity of the project and the less than proactive performance of the
Banco do Brasil (BB).

Use of Investment Fund for Large, Complex Civil Works. The use of a fund-like structure to finance
complex civil works, particularly in a low capacity setting, was also problematic. Civil works financed
through social funds are generally smaller and utilize designs that can be easily constructed and replicated,
such as small health posts and schools. Given the use of a fund for large and complex investments, there
was insufficient attention to providing the necessary technical support and oversight that these works
require.

Subproject Approval Procedures. The most serious weakness in the implementation arrangements was the
lack of an independent technical clearinghouse for subproject approval, risking the politicization of
investments (which in fact took place), and sub-optimal subproject quality. Subprojects under $350,000
were approved by the CIBs, based on recommendations of the State Health Secretariat (SES). Given the
limited power of states vis-à-vis municipalities at the time, the latter proved to have limited influence.
Moreover, the CIBs are strongly influenced by political considerations, thus increasing the likelihood that
decisions would be guided by political, not technical criteria. In the cases where proposals were sent to the
PCU for approval, subproject analysis led only to discreet improvements in civil works design, failing to
consider other aspects. Proposal approval at the central level largely confirmed the recommendations made
by the states as it would have been politically very costly to do otherwise. This situation was exacerbated
by insufficient technical support by the PCU, which was poorly equipped to provide technical assistance
for the preparation of subproject proposals. Thus, the generally well conceived criteria for project selection
were often disregarded, and the quality of subprojects could not be ensured. Even the identification of the
needed counterpart funds for the subproject was often glossed over. As is common in social funds,
subproject proposal review/approval should have been done externally by a technically competent entity
that had no ties to the investments.

Little Management Development. While the SAR conditions the funding of rehabilitation and equipment
investments to the establishment of performance contracts and the satisfactory implementation of


                                                      - 6 -

management development, the actual operational arrangements, as reflected in the operational manual
approved at appraisal, include the presentation of a management modernization plan as an eligibility
criteria, not the actual carrying out of management innovations. Moreover, management investments are
only included as an optional activity for the subprojects, rather than as a requirement, and as a result,
minimal management development occurred. In fact, the majority of management investments consisted of
development of information systems, not management innovations. Also, investments in Component I were
not linked to reforms in Component II. Component II financed management activities in 28 hospitals that
were not linked to investments in Component I. There was no evaluation of the impact of the technical
assistance provided, no follow-up, and a review of the studies carried out by the Bank notes that the studies
were generally of poor quality.

Low Minimum Subproject Value. A minimum value of US$50,000 was established for subprojects, which
resulted in a large number of relatively small subprojects. These small investments were widely dispersed
throughout the country, straining the capacity of the project staff to monitor implementation and evaluate
investment outcomes.

Addressing Recurrent Costs. The SAR appropriately notes the risk posed by the lack of revenues to
finance the incremental recurrent costs generated by the project. At the time the project was prepared, this
was an important risk as the system was plagued by chronic resource deficiencies with frequent cuts in
municipal budgets. The proposed solution, however, assumed annual adjustments to the reimbursement
schedules for medical procedures, which occurred irregularly, and never covered the full cost of the
procedures. A study conducted by REFORSUS based on 106 high volume procedures noted that on
average, reimbursements only covered 56 percent of costs. The same factors affecting availability of
financing for recurrent costs had a more immediate effect on availability of counterpart funding, an issue
not addressed during preparation.

Linkage of Component II with Policy Framework. Although the SAR provided a good analysis of the
current health policy and its environment, the design of Component II lacked a linkage with a clear policy
framework to guide research. In addition, while five key finance reform areas were identified, the SAR
failed to provide a conceptual strategy to orient reform formulation. For instance, the 1996 Basic
Operational Norms for Health Care (Normas de Operação Básicas, NOB), which were under discussion
during preparation, and approved around the same time, could have been field tested and fine-tuned through
Component II. The NOB contained an article on the application of performance agreements that could
have been included in the project design to drive managerial and quality improvement changes. By not
giving greater structure and direction to this component, there were some missed opportunities to build on
new reforms in a constructive and systematic manner. The lack of structure contributed to unfocused
performance of this component.

Burden of Joint Financing on Decentralized Entities. While initially the joint financing between the IBRD
and the IADB was seen as a demonstration of collaboration and partnership between financing entities
during preparation and was expected to facilitate coordination for the borrower, this arrangement proved
to be complicated for both the Borrower and the Banks. The biggest problem was for the Borrower who
had to instruct recently decentralized municipalities on using different sets of procedures for each financing
source.

Weak Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. A clear monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework
connecting indicators to project objectives, interventions, and expected outcomes was lacking, and thus a
project M&E system was not established. Most of the indicators in the SAR measured national
improvements in health care and health outcomes for selected types of services areas, rather than for


                                                     - 7 -

specific project interventions and did not take into account the time lag between the interventions and their
possible impact. Some indicators, like the maternal mortality ratio, are highly subject to under reporting,
limiting their usefulness. As a result, the operational relevance of the monitoring indicators was limited.
Systematic evaluations were either not carried out or were hampered by the lack of baseline data or
appropriate methodology. The guidance in the SAR for the preparation of evaluation terms of reference did
not cover the impact of Component II on sector policy. The monitoring of the policy matrix was expected
to be carried out through dialogue between the government and the Bank, and thus was not explicitly built
into the project M&E system. The overall result is that the outcome and impact of the project were
extremely difficult to evaluate.

Overall, both components lacked a strategic focus and framework that would help build a health network
and broad sector reform containing consistent incentives and strategies. Both components were structured
as funds (no detailed costing) and thus there was no way to estimate an appropriate project size. As it
turned out, the project was over-dimensioned, a factor that was exacerbated by the 1999 devaluation, and it
cost the government unnecessary commitment fees. Given that the project took twice as long to be
executed, and about US$21.1 million of the IBRD loan had to be cancelled (the IADB part of the project is
just closing and final figures for amounts undisbursed are not yet available but US$56.6 million of their
share of the loan was also cancelled during project implementation) it seems there was insufficient attention
to costing and implementation issues during preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. This project served as a testing ground for many policy and investment
initiatives currently being carried out in the SUS. However, the two main objectives of the project were
only partially achieved and the lessons were learned at an extraordinary cost. Moreover, even after four
project extensions, a total of US$78.0 million had to be cancelled from the IDB and IBRD loans, and about
20 percent of investments were incomplete at the end of the project. For the reasons outlined below, the
overall outcome rating is unsatisfactory.

The first explicit objective of REFORSUS was to "improve the delivery of health care under SUS." An
important assumption was that investments in infrastructure, equipment, and management would lead to an
increase in the coverage, quality, and utilization of health care services. Although the ultimate objective is
improving the health of the population, the objectives as stated in the SAR do not focus on health
outcomes. An implicit objective associated with this first objective is to "improve the delivery of health
care for the poor" since SUS is the sole provider of care for the poor.

There are a number of difficulties with measuring improved health care delivery in the context of this
project. First, there is a lack of systematic data on project outputs and outcomes. The project did not
establish a system to monitor project outputs and did not carry out any evaluation of outcomes. Likewise,
information on project costs is unreliable. However, given measurable project outputs (i.e. facilities
equipped and rehabilitated), the project partly achieved its objective of improving the service delivery
network of the SUS through subproject investments in infrastructure, equipment, and information
technology that were long overdue and needed.




                                                      - 8 -

The ambulatory and hospital facilities of the SUS were improved through 1,062 decentralized subprojects.
Many of these facilities were also provided with modern medical equipment that is likely to have increased
diagnostic and case-resolution capacity, and expand the scope of the services provided. The blood bank
network and public state laboratories were strengthened and modernized, benefiting all regions. The
technical capacity of the newly-created Programa de Saúde da Família (PSF) was strengthened through
investments in training and provision of basic medical equipment. Several strategic investments were made
in priority areas such as high-risk obstetrics and neonatal care, and emergency care when additional funds
were made available after the devaluation in 1999. These strategic investments were all centrally managed
to avoid the problems faced by the rest of the investments in this component. Improvements in the
management of health care facilities were very modest, occurring in only 40 percent of the participating
institutions, and consisted primarily of information systems (Annex 1, Table 1.4). Management of the
health network, both within facilities, and within municipalities and micro-regions remains a challenge in
the SUS.

There were some visible accomplishments in terms of physical investments, but targets were not
established so it is impossible to evaluate to what extent targets were met. Also, given the absence of
evaluative data, and the dispersion of investments, it is difficult to ascertain to what extent the project
contributed to improving health care delivery through increased effectiveness. Nonetheless, increased
volume of patients is evident in some areas. Given the lack of systematic data on outputs and outcomes, an
attempt was made to review available studies that might shed some light on outcomes of specific types of
investments made by the project.

A.       Improving Health Care Delivery

Improved health care can be analyzed in terms of improved coverage, quality, and utilization. Nevertheless,
in the absence of controls, actual effects may be difficult to interpret. An increased volume of care could
be provider induced and not benefiting users, and a decrease in utilization may be a result of the
effectiveness of other services, such as primary care. Given all the limitations explained above, a review of
a few studies that had some minimal data that focused on health care volume and quality of care was
conducted. While there are individual success stories in all four programmatic areas regarding the benefits
of the project investments, they are illustrative in nature and give no sense of their relative importance in
terms of the overall needs of the geographic area they were addressing or the overall project.

Programmatic Area I: One MS report compares two national user satisfaction surveys (2000 and 2001),
which showed minimal (between 2 and 3 percent change) improvements in four key indicators, including
satisfaction with the medical team, the nursing team, how they were treated and the physical installations
(Ministério da Saúde 2002A). However, there is no indication of how many of these services were
supported by REFORSUS investments (the study was not conducted by REFORSUS).

Increased access to hospitalization may be an indicator of improved health care. REFORSUS added a
total of 6,358 beds to the capacity of SUS (Annex 1, Table 1.3). While this would normally increase
access to hospitalization, the impact could be minimal if investments are made in facilities with low
occupancy rates. In Brazil, small municipal hospitals of under 30 beds have a chronically low occupancy
rates of about 30 percent (Ministério da Saúde, 2004). One-third of the additional beds financed by the
project benefited hospitals with less than 50 beds. In fact, according to a study of investments made by
REFORSUS in subprojects of over US$1.0 million, 10 percent of these investments were made in facilities
with less than 40 beds. (FENSPTEC/JSI/FECAMP, 2003). An analysis of change in inpatient and
outpatient care in that same study shows mixed results on the efficiency of those investments. Although
more than half of the subprojects show an increase in municipal hospitalizations and outpatient care


                                                       - 9 -

(Figures 1 and 2) between 1997 and 2002, almost half showed little change or even a decrease in their
share of hospitalizations. The study also analyzed the sustainability of investments over US$1.0 million,
and classified 47 percent as having medium to low sustainability, of which nearly half (20 percent) were
considered to have low sustainability. Investments in these small hospitals are so unsustainable that the
federal government decided to cease financing hospitalizations in facilities under 30 beds. Only 36 percent
of new hospital beds financed by REFORSUS were allocated to hospitals with more than 100 beds.
International evidence notes that hospitals with 100-450 beds are more cost-efficient.




                       Figure 1: Changes in Inpatient Health Care Volume ­
                           Institutions with Investments Over US$1 Million

                      Share of Municipal Hospitalizations,     Share of Municipal Resources for
                      1997-2002                                Hospitalization, 1997-2002


                  60%                                          60%



                  50%                                          50%



                  40%                                          40%



                  30%                                          30%



                  20%                                          20%



                  10%                                          10%



                  0%                                           0%
                        Increase    No Change    Decrease            Increase   No Change    Decrease

                    Source: FENSPTEC/JSI/FECAMP 2003.




                                                          - 10 -

                      Figure 2: Changes in Outpatient Health Care Volume ­
                            Institutions with Investments Over US$1 Million

                     Share of Municipal Outpatient             Share of Municipal Resources for
                     Visits, 1997-2002                         Outpatient Care, 1997-2002


                  60%                                          60%



                  50%                                          50%



                  40%                                          40%



                  30%                                          30%



                  20%                                          20%



                  10%                                          10%



                   0%                                          0%
                        Increase    No Change    Decrease            Increase   No Change    Decrease

                    Source: FENSPTEC/JSI/FECAMP 2003.



Programmatic Area II: Beginning in 1995, the MS made an important change in its approach to health
care by focusing on strengthening and expanding primary care. Investment in primary care grew from
R$2.7 billion to R$4.2 billion between 1995 and 2001, an increase of 57 percent. The increase in
expenditures on medium and high complexity care increased only by 6 percent during the same period.
REFORSUS contributed to fulfilling the MS's priorities through financing 31 training centers for Family
Health Program (Programa da Saúde da Família, PSF) workers. By May 2002, more than 15,000 family
health teams were trained, increasing coverage from 2 percent in 1996 to close to 30 percent by 2002
(Quinhões e Ferrato, 2003). In addition, the project financed the establishment of a specialization in family
health in the medical training program, which will increase the number of physicians graduating with a
specialization in family health. The first cohort group will graduate in 2004. While clearly there was an
impact on extending coverage, there is no information on the quality of training provided.

Programmatic Area III: The project expanded and strengthened the national blood bank network through
investments in training, software, equipment, and rehabilitation of 187 blood bank installations (two-thirds
were financed by IBRD). These investments led to a 30 percent increase in blood collections and an
increase in repeater donors from 30 to 49 percent by the end of the project. Production of hematological
components also increased. The level of complexity of the services provided was raised, new services were
introduced, and the installation of improved information technology enhanced efficiency in some cases.
Nevertheless, most blood banks (67 percent) did not include management improvements as part of the
subprojects, limiting investments to infrastructure and/or equipment. Moreover, less than 80 percent of
these investments were completed by project closing, and only 56 percent of the centers were operating,
limiting the assessment of this subcomponent's full impact.

Programmatic Area IV: The project strengthened the central public laboratory in each state. As a result of
investments, several states show productivity gains in the surveillance of diseases of compulsory case
reporting (Doenças de Notificação Compulsoria), since laboratories improved sample reception, handling
and diagnostic capacity, and decentralized routine clinical exams to ambulatory facilities. Some facilities



                                                          - 11 -

added services not previously available, including product surveillance, virology, microbiology, and
bone-marrow transplant products. The impact of these investments, however, is only partial as less than 60
percent of investments were completed by the closing date.

Improving the delivery of health care for the poor:


The project partially achieved its implicit objective of improving delivery of health care for the poor.
Specifically, the project contributed to reducing existing inequalities in the distribution of federal health
sector investments at the state level, thereby narrowing the gap between poor and non-poor states. Before
the project, the government had been reducing regional inequalities in financing since 1986 (see Table 2
below). At project launch, the North and Northeast received about 27 percent of federal government
financing for health, although they contained 36 percent of the population and the highest poverty indexes.
By 2001, these regions received 33 percent of federal financing. REFORSUS went further in reducing
financing regional inequalities by investing 42 percent of PA-I funds (which represent 84 percent of total
estimated project costs) in the North and Northeast. However, improved allocation among states does not
imply improved allocation within states, and there is no information that there was greater access by the
poor to health care since there was no specific study carried out to assess this.

                             Table 2: Regional Inequalities in Health Financing
            A Comparison of Federal Transfers and REFORSUS Investments (US$ million)
                   Federal Health Financing        Federal Health Financing      Total Investment REFORSUS
                              1994                           2001                          (1996-2002)
    Region        % Transfer     % Population     % Transfer     % Population         Total       Share of Total
                                                                                   Investment      Investment
North                         4.6            7.2             6.4             7.6             49.1            11.5
Northeast                    23.0           28.5            27.1            28.1            130.6            30.6
Central West                  6.6            6.7             6.8             6.9             39.0             9.2
Southeast                    49.3           42.6            44.2            42.6            156.0            36.6
South                        16.5           15.0            15.5            14.8             51.6            12.1
Total                      100.0           100.0          100.0            100.0            426.3           100.0

B. Policy Reforms for Sustainability and Efficiency

The second objective of REFORSUS was to "assist in the introduction of policy reforms to improve the
sustainability and efficiency of SUS." This was to be accomplished through strengthening the MS, states,
and municipalities in their roles as purchasers of health care, and in preparing and implementing the
necessary health care reforms. Similar to the first objective, the lack of data is a serious impediment to the
evaluation of the project's impact.

Although numerous relevant studies were financed (see Annex 1, Table 1.7), the studies did not have the
desired impact because they lacked a policy framework and linkages to ongoing reforms and investments.
Moreover, the studies had little involvement from the MS given the project's isolation from it, and were not
disseminated. The lack of a policy framework for the studies led to the generation of a potpourri of studies,
pilots, and training that responded to differing agendas and personalities. The insufficient involvement of
the relevant departments of the MS in the beginning, and its total lack of involvement in the end, led to the
development of poor quality study designs and irrelevant results. In the design phase, the studies reflected
more the vision of the Executive Secretariat (Secretaria Executiva, SE), the Secretariat of Health Policy
(Secretaria da Políticas de Saúde), and the Secretariat of Health Investments (Secretaria de Investimento



                                                     - 12 -

da Saúde). The party with the most vested interest in REFORSUS, the Health Care Secretariat (Secretaria
da Assistência à Saúde, SAS), did not have an adequate role in defining the necessary studies. Terms of
Reference (TOR) were prepared by the PCU rather than by technicians within the MS and the MS was not
involved as a counterpart for the studies. The PCU did not have the expertise to prepare these TORs nor to
serve as a useful counterpart for the studies. The transfer of the PCU from SAS to SE, and then outside
the MS only led to a further separation of the studies from their potential users. In fact, numerous studies
have never been reviewed by the MS. There was no clearinghouse to assess study proposals and very
limited technical supervision of studies conducted. For all these reasons, many studies were of poor
quality, and were simply shelved. Even in the case of the good quality and relevant studies, most of the
results were not utilized because they took so long to be prepared and they were not properly disseminated
inside or outside the MS. During the ICR mission, interviewees noted that only about half of the studies
conducted were of reasonable quality and were used in some way. Thus, this objective was only partially
achieved.

There were several studies that should be highlighted that did have some impact (or potential impact) on
policy changes as summarized below:

A study of different models of hospital management (Estudo de Novos Modelos de Gerência de Unidades
Hospitalares, 2002) demonstrated how issues, such as autonomy, can affect efficiency and costs. The
definition and adoption of better-performing models of hospital management are issues of active interest
with the MS, and state governments. Some states are actually introducing new management models that
involve monthly lump sum payments (instead of fee-for -service volume-based payments) with significant
administrative autonomy. This interest in these new models and the changes it may engender will have
far-reaching consequences. The referenced study had a significant role in fueling the debate and providing
suggestions for concrete changes in hospital management.

An exhaustive study of the costs of 106 medium and high complexity procedures (Apuração dos Custos de
Procedimentos de Alta e Média Complexidade, 2002) has significant current and potential impact by
demonstrating the divergence between reimbursed and actual costs. There has been a concern that many
procedures are reimbursed at below cost and that certain categories of procedures are generally reimbursed
more favorably than others. The study indicates that there is a variation in costs of about 200 percent
between the lowest and highest cost facilities, with variation as high as 500 percent in some cases. The
Ministry is seriously examining the possibility of making major changes in its reimbursement system and
the payment amounts for specific procedures. The World Bank is currently financing a follow-up study
that expands the range of procedures analyzed and deepens the level of the analysis. The Ministry is
taking serious interest in the results. The São Paulo State is also examining this study in order to review its
own reimbursement system. The REFORSUS-financed study was a key piece in the continuing
advancement of this process.

Beginning in the early 1990s, the MS transitioned from a fee-for-service to a per capita orientation for
financing. The PAB (Piso de Atenção Básica, a budget "floor" for basic health care) is a federal transfer
based on a per capita mechanism. A REFORSUS-financed study of the cost and impact of the PAB
(Avaliação dos Custos e Impacto do PAB, 2002) was a detailed analysis of costs that helped policy makers
examine some of the economic characteristics of the PAB in practice.

Since the mid-1990s, the MS has prioritized primary health care and has been moving from traditional
clinic-centered health care to a community-based care through multidisciplinary health care teams, through
the PSF. The analysis of the costs of this program (Custo do Programa de Saúde da Familia, 2001) was a
vital step in quantifying the unit costs of this modality of health care in comparison to traditional care.


                                                     - 13 -

Given costs were calculated using very simplistic assumptions, it underestimated the true costs of covering
the targeted populations. Although the results were not uniformly accepted because it was noted that unit
costs for the same service were higher under PSF, than in the existing basic care approach, the discussion
this generated contributed to the ongoing reorientation in finance mechanisms and in the continuing
expansion of PSF.

REFORSUS contributed to another major initiative, the introduction of the Cartão SUS (SUS User's
Health Card). To date, approximately 20 million people have received their SUS Cards and a tender is
being prepared for the acquisition of an additional 60 million cards. The potential users of these cards have
already been registered (cadastrados). Although the use of these cards has great potential in terms of
providing widespread access to patient health information, facilitating medical referrals, helping to identify
patients with private insurance for future cost recovery efforts, their only use to date has been for
registering patients for appointments and referrals. It is too early to know the extent of actual benefits of
the establishment of the SUS Card system, but REFORSUS played a central role in the implementation of
this initiative up to the present, and in preparation for future steps. This, however, was an investment
financed by IADB Reforsus funds.

Other initiatives where REFORSUS played a central role include the establishment of the National Health
Information System (Rede Nacional de Informações em Saúde, RNIS), a system still in expansion. It is
still early to evaluate the utility of this network. A study of a federal cash transfer program for food
purchase by poor families (Estudo de Avaliação Programa Bolsa Alimentação, 2003) has also attracted
some attention and is likely to help strengthen this program. The Burden of Disease Study for Brazil
(Estudo da Carga da Enfermidade no Brasil, 2002) carried out under SUS, is being examined by the
Surveillance Secretariat of the MS (Secretaria da Vigilância) and it is likely that it will prompt attention to
the prevention of specific groups of illness such as non-transmissible diseases. This study and the report on
equitable allocation of resources (Metodologia de Alocação Equitativa de Recursos pelo SUS, 2002) are
both quality studies that have great potential to help improve the efficiency of the SUS.

In sum, the implementation of this project provided many lessons learned, both in terms of policy and
investment, yet they were learned at an extraordinary cost. The absence of evaluative information also
limits the ability to state how much was actually achieved. The significant currency devaluation in 1999
would have been an excellent opportunity to restructure the project and cancel part of the loan. However,
the government did not agree to a partial cancellation until nearly the end of the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Investment Fund (US$527.8 million or 81.7 percent of total project cost).

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. This component financed approximately 1,609 decentralized subprojects
countrywide (883 financed by the IBRD; 726 by the IADB), including 547 subprojects for both civil works
and equipment investments (229 financed by the IBRD; 318 by the IADB), and more than 600 subprojects
for equipment only. At project closing, at least 15 percent of subprojects were still under execution. In
addition, the IBRD provided about 22 percent of the costs for 75 centralized subprojects to purchase
equipment in strategic areas. The IADB-financed portion of REFORSUS will close on June 30, 2004. It
should be noted that during preparation of the ICR it was difficult to determine exactly how many
subprojects were executed and completed because none of the numerous tables provided by the PCU added
up. The numbers presented are the best estimate feasible.

As noted in the SAR, the subprojects were grouped in five main areas. The implementation of subprojects
in PA-I-IV was decentralized, and strategic investments were centrally managed. Table 1.2 in Annex 1



                                                      - 14 -

shows how many subprojects were financed under each programmatic area. A total of 522 civil works
subprojects were completed, or 96 percent. Six IBRD-financed subprojects remain to be completed.
Completion rates were much lower for equipment subprojects where an overall completion rate of 81
percent was achieved, and 79 percent completion rate for the Bank financed share (or 140 incomplete
subprojects). As noted before, investment in management modernization (which was expected to be made
in all subprojects) only took place in 40 percent of beneficiary institutions.

Programmatic Area I (PA-I). A total (IBRD and IADB) of 446 civil works subprojects and 876
equipment subprojects were financed out of PA-I. Total expenditure for both was approximately
US$426.3 million. These investments were intended to upgrade infrastructure and equipment of
ambulatory and in-patient care services in numerous municipalities. As mentioned earlier, the definition of
investments under this component became very politically driven. The PCU lost control of this
subcomponent early on since once the process of political commitments began, it was politically too costly
to stop. This led the PCU to disregard eligibility criteria for subprojects, making the approval process a
purely bureaucratic one. This resulted in a further fragmentation of the health system, as "regional
networks" were not taken into account when approving investments, and in an inefficient use of funds.
Moreover, proposals and contracts were frequently amended due to pressure from governors, mayors and
congressmen. Political meddling and poor design, resulted in contract amendments and/or additions of an
average of 12 percent overall or 27 percent if only those that were adjusted are considered. In some states,
investments were reduced in size, with the $50,000 floor per subproject not being observed. As the results
show, even a minimum value of US$50,000 for subprojects led to a large number of relatively small
subprojects. Also, the noncompliance with eligibility criteria related to availability of counterpart funds
for construction, and funds to cover recurrent costs, seriously delayed project execution and, upon
completion, has left some of these investments partially idle.

Programmatic Area II (PA-II). A total of 59 equipment subprojects were financed under PA-II (all
IBRD financed) with a total of approximately US$29.2 million. Only 41 of the subprojects had been
completed at project closing, a completion rate of 69 percent. The component financed the establishment of
31 training centers through partnerships between state health secretariats and over one hundred academic
institutions. Training was mostly introductory, but also included some professional level courses for a total
of approximately 70,000 trainees. Training in family health, which started in 2002, continues with
financing from the MS, state health secretariats, academic institutions and students. REFORSUS also
contributed to the creation of family health care careers in Brazilian medical schools and the first group of
specialized doctors will be graduating in 2004.

Programmatic Area III (PA-III). A total of 101 equipment subprojects were financed under PA-III, for a
total of approximately US$47.4 million (70 IBRD financed). Subprojects financed infrastructure,
equipment, and management improvements in the national blood bank network, benefiting for the most part
the main state-level facilities and also ancillary collection and transfusion service units. An assessment of
these subprojects carried out by the MS shows that 93 percent of equipment subprojects were completed
and only 62 percent of civil works.

Programmatic Area IV (PA-IV). PA-IV subprojects, estimated at US$26.3 million, benefited 26 public
laboratories (12 IBRD financed). Subprojects favored the central laboratories of each state and 51 percent
are located in the poorer North, Northeast and Center-West Regions. The percentage of laboratories that
invested in management improvements is the highest at 65 percent.

Strategic Investments. As noted previously, the strategic investments were centrally managed, and
supported capacity expansion and equipment for high-risk obstetrics and neonatal care, and emergency


                                                      - 15 -

care, as well as complementary equipment for the PSF (75 subprojects). A comprehensive assessment of
the "Strategic Investments" was not made by the MS, but records show that US$75.3 million was spent in
priority areas including high-risk obstetrics and neonatal care, and emergency care, and information
technology equipment for the PSF.

The management of Component I posed a considerable challenge to the PCU. The number and dispersed
nature of investments quickly overwhelmed PCU staff. Neither the structure nor profile of the PCU was
adequate to manage a large and complex national investment project. The three regional units could not
cope with the demands of project management and supervision; this was evident within the first year of
supervision. Moreover, the capacity to prepare subprojects was very weak in most municipalities, and
project implementation arrangements did not provide the structure to allow for the necessary support to the
hundreds of small municipalities with low capacity requesting funds. Together, these two factors led to
considerable delays during the first two years of implementation. Although more than 1,000 subprojects
were approved by the third year of implementation, only 30 percent of the loan was disbursed.

Thus, not only did it take a long time to get started, but the necessary follow-up procedures were not
carried out. The project and its PCU were somewhat isolated from the MS and there was limited
participation of the MS technicians in the technical oversight of investments. By the end of 2001, an effort
was made to centralize supervision and to systematize it. Since then, subprojects were periodically
supervised--on a sample basis--by the central and regional staff of the PCU, and by the BB when the
subproject cost exceeded US$3.0 million.

Implementation problems ranged from poorly prepared and/or incomplete subproject design, unexpected
physical contingencies, expanded scope of works, delayed payment of the cost-share participation of
beneficiary institutions, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, all of which contributed to the
considerably longer implementation time. Over 52 percent of civil works contracts had to be adjusted
upwards because of these problems. Problems with equipment subprojects were also significant. A PCU
supervision report in December 2003 noted that equipment was not functioning in 35 percent of the
subprojects. In one-third of them the reason was because the equipment could not be located, in 40 percent
the equipment was stored, and in others the human resources to operate the equipment were lacking. For
equipment subprojects, poor subproject preparation led to the reallocation to other facilities of 4 percent of
the general equipment procured and 11 percent of the high-complexity equipment. Very few subprojects
included management improvements and those that did were primarily management information system
solutions. In cases where training was part of the package, there were problems of coordination with other
inputs and thus it was often provided out of synchrony. Decentralizing procurement at the sub-national
level led to significant delays because of the lack of experience with procurement procedures of both Banks
(IBRD and IADB). Although some training was provided, it proved insufficient.

The lack of counterpart funds severely delayed project execution. The arrangement in which the project
relied on contracts between the BB and the beneficiary (state, municipality), which reimbursed expenditures
only after they were made and reported, (as opposed to agreements or "convênios" where the funds are
transferred up front and expenditures reported after the fact) only introduced greater delays as beneficiaries
could not secure the necessary funds up front. This led to large amounts of money being held idle at the
BB, which was already charging a 2 percent commission. The devaluation of the Real in January of 1999
and its subsequent instability increased the availability of project funds, while at the same time increasing
the prices of goods and services leading to increased counterpart fund requirements.




                                                     - 16 -

Component II Institutional Development ($86.1 million or 13.3% of total project cost).

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. A large number of activities were financed under this component,
including: studies, research, management consulting, training, evaluation, and dissemination activities to
support the government's sector reform agenda (a complete list is provided in Table 1.7 in Annex 1). For
the reasons outlined below, the implementation of this component is rated as unsatisfactory.

Since its conception, this component did not benefit from a clear orientation nor strategy regarding research
priorities, in part because of a lack of clear vision of the future of the SUS at that time, but also because
project preparation did not focus on this. Also, in the initial phases, the demands of Component I
overwhelmed the capacity of project staff. As a result, the activities under this component did not start
until 1999. The impetus came from the incoming government at the time which decided to use the project
as its main vehicle for policy reform. A number of initiatives and pilots were financed early on, such as the
National Health Card (Cartão SUS), the establishment of the National Sanitary Surveillance Agency
(Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária, ANVISA), a hospital accreditation system, and a national
health accounts system, among others. A total of 52 activities were financed.

As mentioned previously, although some studies were of reasonable quality and usefulness, many had
shortcomings and methodological deficiencies that could have been avoided with the proper technical
oversight. Many studies were of poor quality due to the lack of a technical clearinghouse for study
proposals, and an absence of a counterpart relationship with the MS so that products were generally
accepted without a meaningful review of their contents. The lack of involvement of line departments of the
MS in all phases contributed to poor outcomes. Moreover, the PCU did not have staff with the profile to
provide technical supervision to the studies and Component II was understaffed relative to its budget and
objectives. These factors combined to create long delays in initiation and implementation of the studies,
with negative consequences. Often, this meant that results were delivered at a time when the area of
research had long ceased to be a priority or the specifics of the priority had changed. The lack of proper
publication and dissemination also limited the impact of the research conducted.

Efforts were made by both Banks to encourage the PCU to conduct a meta-analysis of all the studies
conducted to get a sense as to what had been accomplished, assess knowledge gains and gaps and
disseminate results. However, the meta-analysis was never carried out.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Modest. The project had an important institutional impact since it provided a testing ground
for the process of system decentralization and offered all involved with an intense learning-by-doing
experience. The experience gained on managing projects of this scale, and on implementation in a
decentralized setting has provided many lessons, although at a high cost. Nevertheless, the MS today has
the benefit of this experience and has more insight and know-how on how to successfully organize and
implement large health investments. At the federal level, during project implementation investment
planning was strengthened with the creation of an investment and strategic projects directorate (Diretoria



                                                      - 17 -

de Investimentos e Projetos Estratégicos--DIPE) at the MS, which functions now as a single coordinating
investment window for the Ministry.

Studies carried out under Component II helped increase research capacity in a few cases and several
studies had an important impact in the MS on the understanding of important policy issues. Nonetheless,
many other studies were not utilized efficiently to inform policy, and fell short of their potential to benefit
the SUS. Overall, REFORSUS made a contribution to the development and evolution of the SUS.
However, compared to the scale of the project and its original potential, its institutional development
impact was quite modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation was impacted by the substantial fluctuation of the Brazilian currency: between
project approval in June 1996 and closing in December 2003, the real to dollar exchange rate increased
from R$0.99 to R$2.85, reaching a peak of R$4.03 in October 2002. This fluctuation required substantial
flexibility on the part of the project team, which had to adjust to a strengthening dollar by reprogramming
project investments and spending more to ensure adequate disbursements, and then readjusting as the dollar
weakened. In addition, the depreciation of the local currency resulted in a shortage of counterpart
financing, particularly at the municipal level. As a result, the government requested a partial cancellation
of the IBRD and IADB loans, but not until nearly the end of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart funds. Throughout project implementation, the availability of counterpart funds both at the
national and sub-national levels affected project implementation. As previously stated, the significant
depreciation of the local currency resulted in the government needing substantially higher levels of
counterpart funding than originally estimated to implement the project, even after a partial cancellation of
the loan. Additionally, the government was not able to adjust the project to respond to these fluctuations.
At the same time, Brazil's monetary policy­negotiated and agreed with the IMF--established tight budget
controls that limited the amount of resources allocated to government expenditures, including transfers to
the MS and, therefore, to REFORSUS.

Turnover of staff with changing administrations. Since there were almost nine years during preparation
and implementation of this project, there were at least three federal, state and municipal elections leading
to changes in health ministers (federal level), secretaries (state and municipal levels) and key staff, working
in the health sector and on REFORSUS. The high turn-over of key players often resulted in the lack of
clear priorities and strategies for the project.

Institutional capacity at municipal level. While project implementation relied heavily on the municipal
governments, many lacked the technical and institutional capacity to implement the subprojects, including
knowledge about the Bank's procurement processes. Since this was the beginning of the operationalization
of the government's municipalization process, insufficient steps were taken by government to strengthen
human resources to carry out their new roles, and address the fragmentation this process would bring to the
SUS. A mid-course correction was made in 2001 (NOAS 2001), although it still failed to address the
question of human resource capacities.

Project implementation structure. The PCU operated in isolation from the MS's line units ­except for
the Secretaria Executiva and the Minister­leaving the Secretaria de Assistência da Saúde (SAS) out of the
picture, thus rendering many project results less useful or irrelevant (in the case of studies). Greater



                                                     - 18 -

involvement of the MS at the technical level might have counteracted the political pressure exerted by
states and municipalities in the use of subproject funds.

Lack of control of resources in a decentralized setting. Given the independence of municipal
governments, and the weak implementation arrangements of the project, the federal government/PCU lost
control of the implementation of the project, leading to a disregard for agreed "rules of operation" for the
subprojects and resulting in poor outcomes.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Recurrent costs. Many of the beneficiaries submitting proposals underestimated the increased recurrent
cost resulting from the investments and did not plan accordingly. Likewise, the committees selecting the
subprojects did not ensure that availability of funding for increased recurrent costs was properly considered
in the approved proposals. As a result, several recipients are not using the financed equipment due to lack
of funding to pay for the additional recurrent costs.

Financing mechanism. As mentioned earlier, the project relied on contracts between the BB and the
beneficiary (state, municipality), which reimbursed expenditures only after they were made and reported,
(as opposed to agreements or "convênios" where the funds are transferred up front and expenditures
reported after the fact). This arrangement only introduced greater delays as beneficiaries could not secure
the necessary funds up front. Furthermore, the PCU did not respond to this problem, by developing
adequate strategies to overcome it.

Dispersion of resources. Project investments were widely dispersed throughout the country, which made it
difficult to implement, monitor and evaluate the project. Likewise, because resources were too dispersed,
the project did not have any significant impact in terms of health outcomes. However, because all
sub-projects were approved early on, it was politically impossible to change course.

Structure of Project Coordination Unit. The structure and technical profile of the PCU was ill suited for
the task of administering such large and complex project, particularly given the dispersion of investments
and the lack of capacity at the local levels. Notwithstanding, there were no attempts to restructure the PCU,
either on the part of MS or the PCU's leadership, to better serve the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost was US$750.0 million with US$300.0 million financed by the IBRD, US$350.0
million financed by the IADB, and US$100.0 million in counterpart financing. During project
implementation, US$77.7 million was cancelled (US$21.1 million IBRD; US$56.5 million IADB).
Approximately US$26.4 million was undisbursed at the end of the project and was cancelled. About 84
percent of the original IBRD loan was disbursed (90 percent considering the initial cancellation).

Unfortunately, the original cost and financing tables included in the SAR fail to disaggregate project costs
by financing agency, thus impeding a disaggregated comparison of expenditures across components.
During ICR preparation, the Borrower provided the Bank with their own cost and financing tables, which
were used to reconstruct the project costs. These tables were based on projections rather than actual costs.
While the Borrower's input was helpful in the absence of more detailed data, their figures differ from those
available in the SAR and are not consistent with previously provided data. Thus, the following analysis is
an attempt to reconstruct the data and is useful only in providing an overview of the distribution of
resources across components but it does not provide the accuracy expected in an ICR.




                                                     - 19 -

The total project cost is estimated at US$ 645.89 million or 86 percent compared to US$750 million
estimated at Appraisal, as indicated in Annex 2. (Total costs were calculated taking into consideration the
total project cost ($750 million) and subtracting the cancellations ($77.1 million) and the IBRD's
undisbursed amount ($22.5 million), as indicated in controller's website. Given that IADB's total
disbursement figures are not yet available, it is possible that the total project cost is smaller than this
estimate due to undisbursed amounts on their share of the loan). Component I disbursed 77.5 percent of
the Appraisal estimate while Component II disbursed slightly more than originally estimated (107 percent),
reflecting an expansion in the number and scope of studies and technical assistance activities, particularly
those financed by IADB which includes, for example, the development of the SUS identification card at a
cost of approximately $36.1 million not originally planned.

Procurement under Component I was fully decentralized to states and municipalities for all subprojects
except those classified as strategic investments, which were procured centrally by the MS. Procurement
training and technical assistance for participating sub-national entities was provided throughout project
implementation and helped to avoid deviations from agreed IBRD and IADB procedures. However,
capacity at the state level was weak, and there were frequent problems with the failure to use agreed
procurement procedures. An ex-post IBRD procurement review of 21 processes for goods and works and 3
for selection of consultants carried out as part of the Midterm review found that 95 percent of such
processes were not strictly in compliance with the Bank's guidelines, especially for shopping and three
quotations procedures. The main procurement problems were due to: (i) inadequate filing system, (ii)
insufficiently staffed procurement unit; (iii) problems with "shopping" procedures; (iv) lack of procurement
plan, (v) lack of training on Selection of consultants; (vi) no close monitoring and supervision of
weakest-performing states; and (vii) 384 forms missing. The situation, however, improved towards the
end of the project.

The project was audited by the controlling bodies of the federal government systematically on a yearly
basis. Auditors issued qualified opinions for audit reports for 2002 and 2003 primarily because
withdrawals of up to US$1.0 million (2002) and US$3.3 million (2003) have not been documented by local
implementing entities against eligible expenditures. This has been a recurrent problem, but despite
expressed commitment by the government to address it, no action has been taken. The Bank is following up
with the Borrower to obtain documentation for eligible expenditures to justify these withdrawals. Should
they remain undocumented, the Bank will treat them as ineligible and request the funds to be refunded to
the Loan Account, which is still open.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR rating: Unlikely. While many of the REFORSUS investments addressed real and urgent needs of the
local population and, for this reason, will probably be sustained in some form or another by the
sub-national governments, this ICR concludes that overall project sustainability is unlikely. The reason for
this rating is that despite the large share (82 percent) of total project costs being allocated to finance
subprojects, their sustainability is questionable due to a series of issues that were not properly addressed
during project implementation. Those issues are:

Health Finance. As a result of the current monetary policy and ensuing budget restrictions, as well as the
structure of health finance in Brazil, budget ceilings (tetos) are set for most items. Consequently, the health
budget has shrunk in real terms over the last few years, resources are barely sufficient for everyday needs,
and reimbursement rates are frequently below real costs. Thus, no additional resources are expected to be
available for the preventive maintenance of newly-acquired equipment. This problem was already evident


                                                      - 20 -

before project closing since equipment was not being used due to the lack of resources to finance
incremental recurrent costs. In particular, investments made in very small hospitals will likely create the
need for additional public subsidies which, if not available, may also pose sustainability risks. There are no
known government provisions at this point that would protect these investments.

Human Resources. The lack of institutional capacity at the sub-national levels was a problem throughout
project implementation. Despite this shortcoming, very few subprojects included management
improvements and those that did primarily focused on management information system solutions. While
the federal government attempted to remedy this situation by providing human resources training, that
training was not sufficient nor properly coordinated with investments, either in timing or in the adequacy of
the training itself. Furthermore, due low wages and poor working conditions, employees regularly leave
public sector jobs­mostly the highest qualified and/or those who receiving training­and this also drains the
SUS of human resources with valuable skills and training. While this is a problem affecting all of Brazil's
public sector, during the eight years of project implementation neither the MS nor sub-national
governments developed a plan to address this issue. Thus, the ICR team anticipates that this will further
erode project sustainability.

Institutional Development. Component II financed a series of studies and technical assistance "necessary
to reform health care financing and ensure the financial sustainability of the system." While some of the
studies financed under this component were well done and useful, many were of poor quality and the
question of health finance and sustainability of investments was not adequately addressed. Even as the
effectiveness of these studies would have still depended on the political will and availability of resources
from the government, more focused, quality studies could have provided the government with a technical
basis for difficult political decisions.

Subproject selection criteria. The politicization of decision making in Component I resulted in an overall
failure to adhere to eligibility criteria. This posed several inefficiencies in the use of resources, including
not ensuring that incremental recurrent costs would be available to sustain the investment, and that
management systems were not adopted. In some cases, there was insufficient local demand, greatly
reducing the incentive for maintenance. In others, inadequate support infrastructure greatly reduced the
possibility to maintain the equipment. This finding is further confirmed by a study
(FENSPTEC/JSI/FECAMP 2003) of the REFORSUS investments above US$1.0 million, which concluded
that about half of them have medium to low sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has requested Bank support for a follow-up project (QUALISUS). Although project
design is still in the pre-concept stage, Bank staff have already initiated discussions with the MS on how to
build upon the lessons learned from REFORSUS. First, the Bank is already working closely with
Department of Specialized Care in the MS in the formulation of hospital reform strategy through a strong
AAA program that is assessing efficiency, quality, and costs of publicly-financed hospital care. This work
will result in a policy and strategic framework to guide all future investments, Bank and government, in the
hospital sector. Second, the use of the convênio instrument will be replaced by direct transfers
(funda-a-fundo) within a performance-based scheme. Essentially, a proportion of financing would be
linked to benchmarks in terms of outputs, meeting selection criteria, and establishing robust management
and governance changes. Third, for low-capacity states and municipalities, a capacity-building period will
precede development of specific investment plans. Fourth, as suggested above, organic links between
investments and management improvements will be incorporated into project design. Finally, to foster
institutional ownership and accountability, responsibility for implementation will be assigned to the MS
Departments responsible for hospital policy and oversight. As the report notes, some of the investments



                                                       - 21 -

had low sustainability. The government is currently assessing different financing options for some of those
investments.

With respect to the policy framework, some further development is taking place through the recently
approved HD Technical Assistance Loan to the Brazilian government. Advances with respect to
performance based financing are being made through specific loans such as VIGISUS II and the Third
AIDS and STD Control Project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. As fully detailed in Section 3.5, the Bank's lending performance is rated unsatisfactory.
The main reasons for this rating are: (i) important risks were not well-identified, and some of the proposed
actions to mitigate those risks were insufficient; (ii) there were inadequate arrangements for project
management and for subproject preparation, approval, and supervision; (iii) the choice of a fund-like
structure was questionable given the highly complex civil works and low institutional capacity; (iv) there
were no clear monitoring and evaluation arrangements specified during preparation; (v) the institutional
capacity of sub-national governments was greatly underestimated; (vi) implementation arrangements did
not provide for an independent technical clearinghouse for subproject approval, risking politicization of
investments; and (vii) project documentation provided inadequate data on the costing and financing
arrangements.

7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory. The supervision of REFORSUS by the Bank was uneven; it was more technically
thorough at the beginning of project implementation, but degenerated to routine bureaucratic reviews
towards the end. Based on a review of the project documents, it seems almost as though IBRD interest in
the project dropped drastically after the midterm review. In fact, the implementation of some
subcomponents was rated as unsatisfactory from December 1997 until the mid-term review, after which
only procurement was rated as unsatisfactory. The Bank team could have taken more initiative to help
improve project performance, such as helping design an effective monitoring and evaluation system, or
systematically reviewing the technical aspects of study proposals and the corresponding study reports.
Moreover, other than the mid-term review, each of the two annual supervision missions lasted two days and
took place in Brasília without visits to the field. The team also missed the opportunity to restructure the
project after the devaluation, something that could have increased project effectiveness. The Bank did try
to convince the government to cancel part of the loan after the devaluation but the government refused to do
so until the end of the project. While a concerted effort was made in the end to encourage the PCU to
conduct a meta-analysis of the studies financed under Component II to have a sense of the lessons and the
remaining gaps, the PCU never carried it out.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Considering the less than satisfactory project preparation and supervision, and its outcomes, the overall
performance of the Bank is rated as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory. The Brazilian Government and especially the technical team at the MS, which were
involved in project design, contributed actively and effectively in the preparation of the project. However,
by insisting on not linking policies to investments and not selecting more transparent implementation
arrangements, their recommended project design also contributed to the project's poor performance. The



                                                      - 22 -

preparation team should have been more aware of the weak implementation capacity at sub-national levels.
For this reason, borrower performance in preparation is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. The Federal Government performance during project implementation is rated
unsatisfactory because of its insufficient involvement in defining investment priorities in both components
and in encouraging the observation of agreed technical criteria for investments. It also did not make timely
partial cancellations of loan proceeds, which would have saved the federal government expensive
commitment fees. At the state level, some state governments made very good use of project funds and had,
in general, a more satisfactory performance but overall, both states and municipalities had unsatisfactory
performance because they failed to adhere to technical criteria for investment decisions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory. The PCU was not adequately staffed nor structured to manage the project and was too
isolated from the MS to be able to adequately identify, evaluate, and supervise subprojects and studies.
While an effort was made after 2001 to improve project supervision, most of the damage had already been
done. Thus, its overall performance is considered unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory. This ICR notes that clear benefits were derived from the project, yet the performance of
the Borrower felt short of properly utilizing the opportunities afforded by the project for sector reform and
to construct a coherent health network at the local level. For this reason, and given the implementation
shortcomings that could have been avoided, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as
unsatisfactory. Clearly, many useful lessons can be derived from the experience of REFORSUS and it
would be prudent to consider these in the preparation of future health sector projects in Brazil.

8. Lessons Learned

Due to the scale, diverse nature of actions, and historic moment in which it appeared, REFORSUS offers a
wealth of lessons learned for such projects in the future:

    Selection of Appropriate Financing Vehicle for Large-scale Health Reform. Investment fund
    financing is not the best approach to build a health network since investment decisions are individual,
    not network related, and made at the local level where capacity for developing sophisticated proposals
    for complex infrastructure is lacking. The result is a more fragmented and inefficient group of
    investments. The use of investment funds proves to be more appropriate in operations that finance
    subprojects that are technically simple and rather similar in kind. This type of instrument is not well
    suited for complex, highly diversified investments.

    Use Independent Decision making Body for Investment Fund Decisions. The structure for
    investment decision making needs to be transparent and guided by technical principles, even if priorities
    are set politically. In this case, the government paid a high cost for not having an independent
    clearinghouse for subprojects and policy studies.

    Strong Capacity Building Needed in Newly Decentralized Sectors. Decentralization always brings
    delays in implementation due to the weak capacity of newly-decentralized entities. However,
    implementation itself builds capacity and is a necessary step to strengthen local capacity. It is
    important that decentralized investments be accompanied with capacity building schemes to nurture
    decentralized entities and help them handle their new responsibilities.



                                                     - 23 -

    Procurement Capacity Building for Decentralized Execution. A project with decentralized
    execution needs to provide sufficient support to decentralized entities in procurement processes or the
    project will experience severe delays. Procurement in REFORSUS caused considerable delays because
    sub-national entities had trouble understanding and, thus, applying IBRD and IADB rules.



    Framework for Policy Reform Studies. The formulation of policy reform studies has to be set in a
    clear framework, with a strategic focus and specified steps. In this case, linking reforms to investments
    would have allowed for more relevant investments on both sides, and would have resulted in more
    systematic construction of health networks and policy information. It may be more useful to phase out
    the financing of investments in coordinating with carrying out of some agreed reforms. In the financing
    of policy agendas or sector reform measures, adjustment rather than investment loans may be a more
    suitable instrument to foster successful outcomes.

    Location of PCU. The location of the PCU outside of the Ministry of Health structure can limit the
    relevance of project implementation activities and its impact. In this project, both components would
    have been more useful and effective had the MS staff been directly involved in all technical
    decision-making and oversight.

    Establishment of M&E Arrangements during Preparation. Monitoring and evaluation
    arrangements must be specified during preparation so that baseline information can be collected at
    project start-up. Simply identifying a list of indicators does not provide sufficient information as to
    how to proceed, and it does not identify potential data collection problems at a time when they can be
    addressed. To have a proper built-in M&E mechanism and system, it is necessary to develop a system
    during preparation (or at least within the first six months of implementation) with participation of
    experts (vision of what data, types of information, how much, from where, etc. is actually needed) who
    have experience in project-end evaluations to ensure that data is available at the end of the project to
    assess project implementation and impact adequately.

    Scale of Investment. The decision to have a national-level project and secure parallel loans from the
    IBRD and IADB led to excessive management complexity and less than efficient implementation. This
    posed problems primarily for the Borrower, but also for the IBRD and the IADB. This problem can be
    avoided by using a more clearly focused regional investment approach implemented through phasing of
    projects.

Size of Subprojects. There should be a higher minimum cost floor for the subprojects as to avoid their
dispersion across several small subprojects. Dispersion was costly for the MS in terms of supervision and
did not allow for the project to impact any one priority area.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution is included in Annex 8. Below are the Borrower's comments to the Bank's
evaluation.

9.1     Introduction:

This document was elaborated by the REFORSUS Project's technical team in response to the



                                                      - 24 -

Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the REFORSUS loan agreement. The objective of this
document is to provide additional clarification and to further analyze some themes and data that are
considered relevant, while keeping in mind that a new loan agreement with the World Bank is currently
being negotiated for the implementation of the QUALISUS Project.

As it can be observed, the REFORSUS Project constituted a unique and important experience within a
historic context for the strengthening and consolidation of the Single Health System (Sistema Único de
Saúde ­ SUS). However, in light of its innovative character and the considerable financial resources that
were invested during the Project's seven-year duration, some operational and strategic deficiencies were
observed.

The ICR becomes an important element in the central review of the experience acquired through
REFORSUS both to avoid continuing the same mistakes as well as to identify positive aspects that could
be maintained or improved in the implementation of similar projects.

9.2      Allocation of REFORSUS Resources

As the allocation of resources was one of RESORSUS' most innovative aspects, we deem this item as one
of the most important regarding the Project's overall performance. Upon the adoption of a strategy to
decentralize and democratize the decision-making processes, REFORSUS fostered the elaboration of
investment proposals in the states. The general strategy for the allocation of resources was such that 70%
of the resources were proportionally distributed according to the number of inhabitants, whereas the
remaining 30% was distributed inversely proportionally to the per capita expenditures of the Ministry of
Health during the same period. This was one of the project's most noteworthy characteristics as, despite the
fact that more densely populated states ­- and per chance the wealthier ones, received more resources in
nominal terms, the poorest ones received a greater per capita investment.

The table below shows the allocation of REFORSUS resources according to the population volume and to
each state's Human Development Indicator (HDI) according to data from the year 2000.

       State      Number of            Approved           Population     Per Capita      Year
                  Approved           REFORSUS                            Investment 2000 HDI
                Sub-Projects       Amount (in Reais)
     AL         30               R$ 18.787.290,14        2.827.856      6.64           0.58
    MA         41                R$ 24.525.516,60        5.657.552      4.34           0.58
    PI         42                R$ 13.443.890,28        2.843.428      4.73           0.58
    PB         16                R$ 27.359.344,88        3.444.794      7.94           0.59
    AM         28                R$ 10.832.605,77        2.817.252      3.85           0.61
    AC         9                 R$ 3.271.058,39         557.882        5.86           0.62
    BA         73                R$ 64.628.649,56        13.085.769     4.94           0.62
    SE         21                R$ 8.489.451,91         1.784.829      4.76           0.62
    CE         54                R$ 39.772.414,88        7.431.597      5.35           0.63
    PE         68                R$ 60.469.765,78        7.929.154      7.63           0.63
    RN         16                R$ 15.128.134,81        2.777.509      5.45           0.64
    TO         7                 R$ 16.342.094,11        1.157.690      14.12          0.66
    PA         37                R$ 57.339.332,63        6.195.965      9.65           0.67
    RR         8                 R$ 1.975.663,29         324.397        6.09           0.68



                                                    - 25 -

     AP         5                 R$ 6.481.150,76            477.032       13.59         0.69
     RO         40                R$ 20.236.233,53           1.380.952     14.65         0.71
     MG         237               R$ 104.931.211,46          17.905.134    5.86          0.72
     ES         20                R$ 19.933.722,08           3.097.498     6.44          0.73
     GO         37                R$ 32.733.617,25           5.004.197     6.54          0.73
     MS         25                R$ 11.053.960,10           2.078.070     5.32          0.74
     MT         39                R$ 36.798.430,11           2.505.245     14.69         0.74
     PR         69                R$ 49.769.865,43           9.564.643     5.20          0.74
     RJ         56                R$ 67.301.084,13           14.392.106    4.68          0.76
     RS         44                R$ 38.619.027,77           10.187.842    3.79          0.78
     SP         77                R$ 183.101.066,08          37.035.456    4.94          0.78
     SC         83                R$ 30.536.768,57           5.357.864     5.70          0.79
     DF         8                 R$ 12.773.913,18           2.051.146     6.23          0.84
      Total      1190             R$ 976.635.263,48          169.872.859 5.75            0.68

Source: REFORSUS Information System / Website of the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística ­ IBGE)

It is important to point out the intrinsic difficulties pertaining the adoption of the SUS institutional model
and its decisive instances, as per Federal Law Number 8080 of 1990. This Law rules over the
representatives and attributions of each governmental sphere of action regarding the development of
measures that are under the obligation of the Executive Power pertaining the health area. The Law states
that the three levels of government are responsible for managing and financing the SUS, in an articulated
and solidary manner. ("Os três níveis de governo são responsáveis pela gestão e financiamento do SUS. de
forma articulada e solidária".)

With regards to the criticism made in the report, it is important to mention that:

         "The most serious weakness of the implementation arrangements was that it did not provide for
         an independent technical clearinghouse for subproject approval, risking the politicization of
         investments (which in fact took place), and a sub-optimal quality of subprojects. Projects under
         $350,000 were approved by the CIBs, based on recommendations of the State Health Secretariat
         (SES)." (ICR Page 11).


It is our understanding that the comment does not correspond to the reality, as the approval flow of all
project proposals was opposite to that which was pointed out. Our proposals were initially submitted to the
CIBs1/(footnote on page 38). The CIBs prioritized such proposals and only then forwarded those for
ratification or veto by the SES. Proposals that were approved were then submitted to the analysis of the
Regional Technical Support Units (Unidades de Apoio Técnico Regional ­ UATRs) and finally forwarded
to the Project Management Unit for final approval. An aspect worth mentioning is that the CIBs are
notably composed of technical and political instances that are necessary for the democratic constitution
process of the SUS (see figure below), and that they did not have a purely technical role at any stage of the
REFORSUS Project. Such role was left solely to the Project's own technical staff. According to what is
recognized in the SUS' institutional guidelines, the managers are the representatives from each sphere of
government designated to the development of functions of the Executive branch in the health area and
should, hence, carry out their duties in two spheres: political and technical. This decentralized politicizing



                                                        - 26 -

of the decision-making process was not only considered as adequate, but also as essential in the political
context of the time; in our point of view it did not serve as a significant obstacle for accomplishing the
Project's objectives.

                          Decision-Making Structure of the Single Health System
             Participatory College       Manager        Two-Level                 Management
                                                        Commissions               Representatives

National     National Council            Ministry of    Tripartite Commission     States: National Council of
                                         Health                                   Secretaries of Health
                                                                                  (Conselho Nacional de
                                                                                  Secretários de Saúde -
                                                                                  CONASS)
                                                                                  Municipalities: National
                                                                                  Council of Municipal
                                                                                  Secretaries of Health
                                                                                  (Conselho Nacional de
                                                                                  Secretários Municipais de
                                                                                  Saúde - CONASEMS)

State        State Council               State          Bipartite Commissions Municipalities: Council of
                                         Secretariats                             the Municipal Secretaries of
                                                                                  Health

Municipal Municipal Council              Municipal
                                         Secretariats

Regarding the performance of the Project's technical analysis units, we do not agree with the statement
made in the ICR that states that:

         "In the cases where proposals where sent to the PCU for approval, subproject analysis led only
         to discreet improvements to civil works design, failing to consider other aspects. Proposal
         approval at central level largely confirmed the recommendations made by the states as it would
         have been politically very costly to do otherwise."(ICR, Page 11).

According to instructions from the REFORSUS Operations Manual, we observed that during the second
semester of 1997, subprojects of up to US$ 350,000 were technically analyzed only by the State
Secretariats. However, immediately upon the verification of the precarious quality of the technical analysis
that had been elaborated by the State Secretariats of Health (Secretarias de Estado de Saúde ­ SES), the
Project Management Unit and the Regional Technical Support Units (UATRs) changed the procedures for
approval and took upon themselves the responsibility of analyzing the project proposals. This way, almost
all of the 1190 subprojects were analyzed and approved by Project teams. In addition to this, we highlight
that the quality of the analyses made by technical staff from REFORSUS caused the Ministry of Health to
ask the Project team for support in analyzing construction works carried out through covenant agreements
and parliamentary emendations. This significantly improved the technical quality of such undertakings,
both in regards to permanence as well as the financial feasibility of investments. However, the Project in
fact had great difficulty in verifying the data of proposals. Due to the high number of proposals that needed
to be analyzed within the same time period, approvals on behalf of the Project became technocratic and



                                                      - 27 -

hence limited to the verification of data provided by the proponents themselves. In other words, it can be
said that it was not possible for more elaborate procedures to be adopted regarding the approval of
projects, which would have included meetings with the communities of users and site visits for the
verification of information provided and optimization of proposals.

Regarding the use of resources in projects that had little impact, the ICR states that:

         "A large number of relatively small subprojects resulted from the minimum value of US$50,000
         set for subprojects. These relatively small investments were widely dispersed throughout the
         country, straining the capacity of the project staff to monitor implementation and evaluate
         investment outcomes and pulverizing investments." (ICR, Page 12).

In part, we agree with the ICR. However, we observed that this fact was more widespread in the states of
Minas Gerais and Santa Catarina, due to the particular characteristics of these two states at the time they
were called to participate in the Project. Furthermore, we observed that the 313 approved subprojects
whose amount was of less than R$ 150,000 (approximately US$ 50,000 at the current exchange rate)
represent 26% of the total amount of approved subprojects. However, if we consider subprojects of up to
R$ 60,000 (which at the time of approval in 1997 corresponded to approximately US$ 50,000), we can
observe that only 6% of the projects were included in this level of investment.

Another factor that shall be considered is that the dispersal of resources generated a large number of
proposals that were approved, but whose scope was incomplete. In other words, the amount of the initial
investment was not enough for the proper functioning and performance of the units. This explains the
difference that was observed between the amounts that were approved and the amounts that were actually
disbursed, considering that after on-site technical supervisions, project experts identified services and items
that were essential to the proper performance of beneficiary units, increasing the final cost and terms for
carrying out subprojects through amendments that were allowed for as per the terms of the loan agreement.

9.3      Evaluation, Monitoring and Sustainability of Investments:

         "The second objective of REFORSUS was to "assist in the introduction of policy reforms to
         improve the sustainability and efficiency of SUS." (ICR, Page 17).

According to what the ICR correctly pointed out, financing through the REFORSUS Project was not tied to
performance contracts or objectives pertaining to managerial development. Hence, it only foresaw some
epidemologic indicators such as parameters of attainment. Consequently, this made it difficult for
evaluation of the Project's impact to be carried out, especially throughout the period of time that was
necessary for the verification of changes in population indicators such as infant mortality rates and
maternal mortality rates, amongst others.

Nonetheless, we would like to point out that in the beginning of 1998, the Project Management Units
elaborated a methodology for evaluating the possible effects of investments in construction works and
equipment. In such evaluation model, indicators regarding structure, processes and results were elaborated
so as to evaluate both the enlarged outreach in the rendering of services through REFORSUS resources, as
well as the modification in the quality of management processes, for which process indicators such as
average time of hospital stay were researched. In addition, some indicators concerning the clientele of the
service unit were structured and include data on hospital mortality rate per clinic, hospital infection rates,
etc.




                                                     - 28 -

Despite the effort made for the widespread use of these process and result indicators in most of the
beneficiary health units, there was no institutional culture in the country at the time that would make all
health units take on the monitoring of such indicators as a routine. A project of specific investments, much
like REFORSUS, found it very difficult to change the culture of these institutions. In this unfavorable
scenario, the participating health units were instilled, even though precariously, with the concern for
monitoring population indicators as a first step towards the institutionalization of this managerial practice.

As for the sustainability of REFORSUS investments, it is important to note that at the time of approval, all
subprojects were obliged to submit a declaration of proponents that had the necessary counterpart, human
and financial resources for the maintenance of equipment and services that were to be added or enlarged. If
the Project made a mistake, such mistake occurred as a consequence of the strategic decision that was made
to decentralize such process, during which the CIBs, Municipal Council for Health (Conselho Municipal
de Saúde ­ CMS) and SES acted as agents to validate the pertinence and operational capacity of proposals.
This flaw in the evaluation of the proponents' institutional capacity, both regarding training and
management of human resources, as well as the values for the demand of recurring incremental resources,
was one of the most important factors that currently harm the operational capacity of investments,
according to what the ICR correctly pointed out,

        "The politicization of decision of what was financed under Component I resulted in an overall
        failure to adhere to eligibility criteria. This posed several inefficiencies in the use of resources,
        including not ensuring that incremental recurrent cost would be available to sustain the
        investment, and that management systems were not adopted." (ICR, Page 26).

Notwithstanding, the current government has been taking the necessary measures to correct and/or
complement the actions that were started by the REFORSUS Project in matters pertaining to the increase
of financial limits, the redistribution of equipment that is not being used, and the complementation of
investments that for some reason have not yielded positive results to the population by means of covenant
agreements.

9.4     Project Implementation:

During the analysis of the Project's operational performance, the historical moment and Brazil's political
situation have to be taken into consideration, as well as the Ministry's lack of experience with projects
financed by external resources at that time. The novelty value of REFORSUS operations, considering the
traditional procedures used for resource disbursement and implementation at that time, has proved to be a
significant obstacle for the technical team, for it demanded the creation of new methods as well as
managerial and data control tools. Therefore, the ICR correctly points out that,

        "The project served as a testing ground for many initiatives currently being carried out in SUS
        on both the policy and investment side." (ICR, Page 13).

It is important to highlight that REFORSUS was originally a project with peculiarities that made it
different from other investment projects carried out by the Ministry of Health. Special attention must be
given to the system adopted for supervision of construction work and equipments.

The ICR states that the Project Management Unit and the three Regional Units were insufficient to manage
over 1,100 subprojects which were spread around 27 states. It states that,




                                                      - 29 -

         "Implementation arrangements greatly underestimated the task of managing a large and complex
         national investment project. The structure and size of the PCU was intended to facilitate rather
         than provide direct support to the technical and financial implementation of the project." (ICR,
         Page 10).

We observed that the Project Management Unit started working with 22 consulting agents. Then, during the
approval and implementation of subprojects, it counted on approximately 100 experts, in addition to 40
experts in the three Regional Units. Hence, there were a total of 140 experts who worked directly with
investment operations. In sum, there was an average of eight subprojects for each technician. Such number
was deemed sufficient for the achievement of acceptable work quality in terms of providing technical
support to the proponents. This number received positive evaluations in the revisions made by both Banks
every semester. Moreover, the project also counted on the collaboration of technicians from the Bank of
Brazil (Banco do Brasil) and from the CONCREMAT Company (construction work management and
supervision). For the reasons noted above, we do not agree with the ICR when it claims that there was
insufficient technical support by the Project Management Unit to the proponents with subprojects of greater
complexity. It states that,

         "Using an investment fund arrangement for large and complex investments did not provide the
         necessary technical support and oversight these works require." (ICR, Page 11).

We observed that the difficulty encountered in keeping the Project's payment flow was due to the
following:

·        Budget limitations caused by insertion of the Project's income source in the National Health Fund
(Fundo Nacional de Saúde), with a limit of monthly expenses linked to annual availability.
·        Lack of precise and articulate financial planning, which led to incorrect requests to the banks for
disbursement in the special account and excessive delay in the approval of disbursements in other scopes of
the Federal Government.
·        Lack of strict control in rendering accounts, which has also prevented disbursement to the special
account.

The proponents' difficulty regarding the counterpart was a crucial factor in causing slow disbursement
during implementation of the project. This slow disbursement reduced the pace of construction work and
equipment delivery, and resulted in postponements of value and delivery time, in addition to breaches in
rescissions of contract. Therefore, there should be mechanisms that ensure the counterpart's resource
availability by the proponents, who often prevent or delay the process, be it through financial sources,
dismissal or even through adoption of alternative counterpart methods.

We observed that there was constant management and supervision of construction work. In addition to
providing supervision, this measure also aimed at providing the necessary technical support for each type
of intervention. Due to the over 560 construction works spread around the national territory, a supervision
and management strategy was created with the intent of reaching a number of agents, scopes and
institutions, so as to ensure technical and administrative quality in the construction works, as well as their
delivery within the contractual time periods and costs. In addition to making over 5,000 supervision site
visits, an average of 9.5 visits per subproject, several meetings and workshops were held in the states to
explain the Project's procedures. Furthermore, manuals and leaflets were distributed to inform the
beneficiaries of all aspects of the implementation, including procurement processes, construction work and
equipment supervision, and amendments to the contract. We do admit, however, that the Project's



                                                      - 30 -

technical support could have been more efficient in the initial phase of preparing proposals. The elaboration
of manuals and the holding of seminars that informed the proponents' technicians of the correct way to plan
projects and specify equipments, for instance, could have prevented several flaws detected in the proposals.
The results would have achieved greater consistency in meeting the goals set by the Project and minimized
further modifications and adaptations, as the ICR correctly pointed out that,

        "Implementation problems ranged from poorly prepared and/or incomplete subproject design,
        unexpected physical contingencies, expanded scope of works, delayed payment of the cost-share
        participation of beneficiary institutions, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, all of which
        contributed to the considerably longer implementation time." (ICR, Page 21).

Regarding the Project's physical and financial monitoring system, REFORSUS' design must be highlighted
as one of its most innovative features, for it ensured better control and total transparency of the
disbursements made. Nonetheless, its co-participatory aspect has seriously compromised the
implementation time since it relied on decentralized resources.

        "Lack of counterpart funds severely delayed project execution. The fact that the project relied on
        contracts between the BB and the beneficiary (state, municipality) which reimbursed
        expenditures only after they were made and reported, (as opposed to agreements or "convenios"
        where the funds are transferred up front and expenditures reported after the fact) only
        introduced greater delays as beneficiaries could not gather the necessary funds up front." (ICR,
        Page 21).

The proponents' financial participation, which was planned to cover taxes and bank fees, was featured by
interruptions in payment. Such interruptions were generally associated to the following limiting factors:

·       Administration changes: because of the extended time in the implementation of the Project, its
goals underwent changes in the administration of government al bodies in charge of the implementation,
such as municipal city halls and state government offices; the new teams in charge of the implementation of
the Project often stopped the investments which had been started in the previous administration. Oftentimes,
changes in the local priorities prevented the completion of the investments that had been previously planned
for;
·       Lack of precise and articulate financial planning led to incorrect requests to the Project for the
payment of invoices and to imprecise budgetary plans for the necessary resources for the counterpart's
payment. Such problem was even greater in places where those in charge of the payment and those in
charge of hiring and accomplishing established goals were different. This fact led to even slower and more
bureaucratic payment procedures;
·       Budget limitations: with the Fiscal Liability Law (Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal), many
proponents had fiscal and administrative problems concerning lack of budget availability, which prevented
them from signing new contracts and making the necessary amendments for the accomplishment of
established goals.

Nonetheless, we understand that the use of a disbursement contract has benefited the Project since the
transferring of funds after the confirmation of expenses facilitated the control of resources within the
previously set goals. The same does not happen in cases of covenant agreements.

Regarding procurement processes, training on subproject implementation has been provided since 1996.
The training process emphasizes the elaboration of contracts and procurement documents, financial and



                                                     - 31 -

budgetary execution of projects, and rendering accounts. For distribution of procurement documents, a
software was developed by the Project. Eighty-five percent (85%) of the beneficiaries have benefited from
such training. In addition, 70% of the international procurement processes for hospital equipment
acquisition counted on the participation of Project Management Unit experts, procurement specialists and
clinical engineers, with the intent of cooperating with the analysis and preparation of the documents
required by financing banks. Also, support was given to several proponents regarding import processes
resulting from international procurement processes.

However, we agree with the ICR's evaluation which claims that employees at the municipal, state, and
philanthropic levels, who worked with the agents in the elaboration and verification of proposals, showed
insufficient technical and cooperation ability to execute complex processes within the time and quality
required. For this reason, the Regional Technical Support Units and the Project Management Unit could
have provided better support to minimize the flaws pointed out. The same holds true for the State
Management Units under the State Secretariat of Health, especially in what refers to the most critical phase
of the elaboration and final analyses of proposals, in addition to management of project implementation.
Acquired experience has shown that more time should have been spent on these two steps in order to
encompass all aspects regarding the viability and feasibility of working with the designated resources.

9.5      Results of Component I:

         "REFORSUS' first explicit goal was to improve health services rendered under the SUS."

According to the Project's team, that goal was reached. REFORSUS not only improved services but also
increased the population's access to the SUS. It has inaugurated more than 400 construction works in
health assistance premises in Programmatic Area 1 - Physical Re-adaptation, completion, enlargement, and
adequacy of buildings. The matter of improving and increasing the rendering of health services to the poor
is implicit in the fore-mentioned information, taking into account that the Project has involved all 27
Federative Units - and 577 municipalities - (10% of Brazilian municipalities).

Programmatic Area 1- The Project has added 6,538 hospital beds to the SUS. Only one third of these were
provided to hospitals with less than 50 beds. According to studies carried out by the Ministry of Health,
such hospitals have an occupancy rate of 30%; consequently, this measure does not have a great impact on
the process to increase access to hospitalization. Nevertheless, it has been observed that this decision was
taken when the Project was first elaborated. Thus, it reflects the policies of municipalities that preach that
investments are to be distributed to the largest number of municipalities, regardless of the municipality's
size.


It's important to highlight that the dollar exchange rate increased against the national currency (Real) in
1999/2001. This fact added much weight to the approval process established by the Two-level Government
Commissions, State Secretariats of Health, Project Management Units and Regional Technical Support
Units. As the Project was funded in Reais (R$), the change in the exchange rate allowed for each
subproject that had already been approved to be over-resourced through complementary subprojects. It also
opened the door to new subprojects to be included as per the Ministry of Health's choice. It is also worth
mentioning that, in 2000, the Ministry of Health started the Master Plans for Regionalization (Planos
Diretores de Regionalização - PDR) at the State Secretariats of Health. These Master Plans stemmed from
the Operational Norms for Health Assistance (Normas Operacionais da Assistência à Saúde -NOAS),
which would be published the following year. Some investments could be rearranged and directed to
municipalities of the state PDR's interest. Although that fact was not originally brought up by the


                                                     - 32 -

REFORSUS, it allowed for the implementation of 70% of the subprojects and 92% of all projects in
municipalities-module headquarters or headquarters' micro regions, as per the NOAS- 2001.

In sum, the goals pertaining to the conclusion of the investments regarding construction work, acquisition
of equipment, and managerial modernization were satisfactorily achieved, according to the tables below:


  Construction Works - PA I                 Approved                              Executed

 Bank                              Number     Amount in R$        Number      Amount in R$        %
 IDB                               274        120.283.043,76      272         134.005.936,84      111.00
 World Bank                        184        64.827.362,50       179         61.223.437,64       95.30
 Total                             458        185.110.406,26      451         195.229.374,48      105.00



       Equipment - PA I                     Approved                              Executed
 Bank                              Number     Amount in R$        Number      Amount in R$        %
 IDB                               407        116.827.494,45      385         223.758.465,65      192.00
 World Bank                        606        182.532.948,86      566         266.819.608,55      146.00
 Total                             1013       299.360.443,31      951         490.578.074,20      163.00



  Managerial Moderniz.-PA I                 Approved                              Executed
 Bank                              Number     Amount in R$        Number      Amount in R$        %
 IDB                               371        13.451.144,31       345         15.460.060,51       15.00
 World Bank                        479        18.069.421,10       425         11.542.814,82       61.00
 Total                             850        31.520.565,41       770         27.002.875,33       163.00

Programmatic Area II- The increase in the number of heath teams that supported the Family Heath
Program (Programa Saúde da Família- PSF) has contributed to the decrease of hospitalization in small
hospitals. Counting only on resources from Strategic Investments, more than three thousand municipalities
received equipment kits for pregnant women and for urgency and emergency care, which added more than
R$ 150 million invested in equipment. In addition, more than R$ 36 million were spent on the professional
training, post-graduate and specialization courses for 3,400 PSF doctors and nurses.

Programmatic Area III -The Project has expanded and strengthened the national hematology and
hemotherapy network. Therefore, the information provided by the ICR on the implementation of
subprojects was not accurate, as 96 of the 102 subprojects approved for the programmatic area mentioned
above were fully executed. This number corresponds to 96% of the total amount and the units are currently
operating.




                                                    - 33 -

   Construction Works-PA
               III                       Approved                           Executed

 Bank                              Number Amount in R$ Number             Amount in R$     %
 IDB                               31       15.068.371,16 28              15.871.107,93    100.00
 World Bank                        71       21.370.293,66 42              21.852.233,41    100.00
 Total                             102      36.438.664,82 70              37.723.341,34    100.00



     Equipment - PA III                  Approved                           Executed
 Bank                              Number Amount in R$ Number             Amount in R$     %
 IDB                               30       6.572.625,77    29            10.216.364,54    166.00
 World Bank                        80       23.035.402,67 71              28.694.472,75    121.00
 Total                             110      29.608.028,44 100             38.910.837,29    134.00



   Managerial Moderniz.PA
               III                       Approved                           Executed
 Bank                              Number Amount in R$ Number             Amount in R$     %
 IDB                               30       4.112.034,00    31            1.955.436,50     50.00
 World Bank                        62       4.471.271,94    67            3.546.136,88     87.00
 Total                             92       8.583.305,94    98            5.501.573,38     68.00

Programmatic Area IV -The Project has also strengthened the Central Laboratories of the Public Heath
System in all states. In addition, 26 (96%) of the 27 subprojects approved were executed and are currently
at work. The ICR, however, states that only 60% of the investments would have been completed.




                                                    - 34 -

  Construction Works - PA
               IV                         Approved                            Executed

 Bank                            Number       Amount in R$ Number            Amount in R$ %
 IDB                             15           9.193.530,32     15            8.774.633,86    96.00
 World Bank                      9            15.070.836,99 8                24.014.743,03 160.00
 Total                           24           24.264.367,31 23               32.789.376,89 136.00



     Equipment - PA IV                    Approved                            Executed
 Bank                            Number       Amount in R$ Number            Amount in R$ %
 IDB                             19           4.147.778,23     17            5.571.233,87    137.00
 World Bank                      11           3.153.280,00     9             6.320.390,90    210.00
 Total                           30           7.301.058,23     26            11.891.624,77 162.00



   Managerial Moderniz. -
             PA IV                        Approved                            Executed
 Bank                            Number       Amount in R$ Number            Amount in R$ %
 IDB                             15           858.070,00       16            719.291,00      83.00
 World Bank                      12           1.228.085,75     8             381.699,91      31.00
 Total                           27           2.086.155,75     24            1.100.990,91    55.00

Concerning Managerial Modernization, we agree with the ICR when it says that there was low
implementation, with the projects that were generally poor and did not consistently help improve the
management of medical assistance facilities. Nevertheless, we have noticed that the ICR has not mentioned
the implementation of a software program developed by DATASUS- MS. The Computerized Integrated
System for Hospital Settings (Sistema Integrado de Informatização de Ambiente Hospitalar - HOSPUB),
consists of several modules: management, ambulatory care, surgical center, emergency, financial
information, hospitalization, laboratory, material, perinatal care, human resources, and the Statistical
Medical Assistance Services (Serviço de Atendimento Médico Estatístico ­SAME). The HOSPUB was
implemented in 91 medical assistance facilities all over the country. REFORSUS financed the hiring of
companies, acknowledged by DATASUS for software installation, training and maintenance. Thus,
REFORSUS has in some ways contributed to the managerial modernization of the contemplated units.

The ICR also states that insufficient attention was given to implementation and budget matters during
project preparation:

        "That the project took twice as long to be executed, and still ended up having to cancel US$78
        million (the IADB part of the project is just closing and figures for amounts undisbursed are not
        yet available) suggests insufficient attention to costing and implementation issues during
        preparation." (ICR, Page12).

We observed that there was planning compatible with the exchange rate at that time, which was US$1 to
R$ .99. As the data below shows, the financial execution could have been completed by the end of 2001.

The Agreement with the World Bank was initially to have ended on December 31st, 2000 and with the IDB
on March 30th, 2001. It took the entire year 1997 for the subprojects to be approved. Both Agreements



                                                    - 35 -

were postponed to December 31st, 2001. Therefore, REFORSUS would have the following financial
execution:

        The World Bank                           The IDB                              Total
 Approved       Executed       %     Approved        Executed      %    Approved       Executed      %
 300            332            110 350               313           89 650              645           99



We observed that by end of 2001, we would have a financial execution of US$ 32 million over what the
World Bank had approved and 100% of the total value executed. The devaluing of the national currency
was the main factor for the Project's extended execution.

Hence, considering the new resources due to exchange rate variation, Component I results have been
considered to be satisfactory in several evaluations made by both Financing Banks.

9.6     Results of Component II

Despite the fact that the ICR has pointed out several negative points in the studies carried out in
Component II, it must be highlighted that, among the 42 studies carried out, a large number of them has
had results which have been appropriated by the Ministry of Health and its Secretariats, for example the
Price Regulation Scheme (Banco de Preços), the Information Systems on Public Budgets in Health            (
Sistema de Informações sobre Orçamentos Públicos em Saúde ­ SIOPS), the Health Statistics ­ Medical
and Sanitation Assistance 2002 (Estatísticas da Saúde: Assistência Médico-Sanitária 2002 - AMSIBGE
2002), the National Network of Health Information (Rede Nacional de Informações de Saúde ­ RNIS),
among others. However, we agree that some, e.g. the Pilot Projects carried out in the 27 states, have not
been considered adequate.

We also agree with the ICR that the studies carried out under this component could have been better
managed if there had been greater integration with other areas within the Ministry of Health itself and also
amongst decentralized scopes:

        "Although some studies were of reasonable quality and usefulness, many had shortcomings and
        methodological deficiencies that could have been avoided with the proper technical oversight.
        Many studies, however, were of poor quality due to the lack of a technical clearinghouse for
        study proposals, and an absence of counterpart relationship with the MS so that products were
        generally accepted without a meaningful review of their contents." (ICR, Page 22).

While we regret that those studies were poorly disseminated and that the applicability of their results could
have been better managed, we observed that, contrary to the above mentioned by the ICR, the Project was
not carried out in total isolation from the Ministry. REFORSUS was conceived in the Secretariat for Health
Care, and later transferred to the Executive Secretariat. Moreover, most of the demand for projects in
strategic investments was generated by the SAS of the Ministry of Health.

9.7     Lessons Learned:

        "Decentralization always brings delays in implementation due to weak capacity of decentralized
        entities." (ICR, Page 28).




                                                     - 36 -

The option for a decentralized management model by the Project is based upon constitutional premises.
Despite the proponents' technical, operational and administrative difficulties, it has strengthened
management capability of the units in the scope of the SUS.

         "Investment fund financing is not the best approach to build a health network as investment
         decisions are individual, not network related, and made at a more local level where capacity for
         developing sophisticated proposals for complex infrastructure is lacking." (ICR, Page 28).

The model for elaborating and presenting the proposals adopted by the REFORSUS was an important
factor in the homogenization of information and uniform selection criteria. However, the proponents
presented some operational difficulties given that the technical teams had trouble analyzing and using the
information presented. However, this introduced some difficulties for entities preparing proposals due to the
lack of available information and insufficient capacity to conduct the necessary analysis.

         "A project with decentralized execution needs to provide sufficient support to decentralized
         entities in procurement processes or the project will experience severe delays." (ICR, Page 29).

The Project did not provide exclusive resources for the planning of its goals. Hence, the proponents, due to
the necessity of presenting its requirements and the possibility of non approval of the resources due to time
constraints, did not spend enough time and resources in the planning stage, which led to flaws in the
following areas:

·        Total review of hospital needs regarding construction work and equipment;
·        Elaboration of a master plan that pointed out the integrated solutions between construction work
stages and equipment installation, in order to provide the appropriate environment for equipment
installation and use;
·        Complementary projects (construction work) production and plans for technological renovation and
personnel training on equipment;
·        Providing local licenses and approvals (sanitation, Municipal City Hall, Engineering Councils, Fire
Department, Environment, etc.)

State and municipal teams' training in the Project's and Financing Banks' rules was relevant to the
Project's performance. However, it did not prevent delay in the implementation since most of the
proponents did not have experience with projects financed by external resources.

The frequent succession of the proponents' technical teams also caused delays and discontinuity of the
activities. A method that ensures continuity of the technical teams and acquired knowledge should be
developed in order to maintain continuity of the activities.

During the Project's implementation, the way of working with contracts was refined ­ there were no
projects with external financing in 1996, and this modality could be mixed with some procedures adopted in
carrying out covenant agreements. Although the process was quite slow in the beginning, the financing
procedure adopted ensured that resources were invested as per the disbursement contracts, which prevented
embezzlement and maladministration of public resources.


Another relevant matter, regarding the documents sent to the Project Management Unit as a central
pre-requisite for payment release, was the fact that the rendering of accounts was fast and followed only by



                                                     - 37 -

a bank statement of the subproject's specific checking account at the Bank of Brazil, which confirmed
payment to the supplying companies.

One must consider the improvement and maintenance of the physical/ financing follow-up procedure in the
implementation of subprojects, especially regarding the analysis and payment release process so as to
ensure transparency and honesty in the transferring of resources.

         "Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have to be specified in the beginning so that baseline
         information can be collected at project start-up." (ICR, Page 28).

We agree that the follow-up and supervision process must be improved and should start in the initial stage -
elaborating the proposals. It should also be done from the implementation to the post-execution evaluation
of each project.

It is also important to set a floor price for the proposals in order to prevent the misspending of resources
and interventions of little impact that demand time and resources from the technical area, which would
impair the cost/benefit relation of a management, supervision and evaluation system.

         "The choice of having a project of national scope and securing parallel loans from the IBRD and
         IADB led to excessive management complexity and less than efficient implementation." (ICR,
         Page 28).

Uniformity and centralization of the data in the systems of analysis, approval and execution of the
proposals should be sought in order to minimize the intrinsic difficulty of working with rules which are
different from the national ones. It would also prevent duplicity of requirements of the same beneficiary
with resources from different income sources, which would enhance the efficacy of investment.

1/
  The Inter-Managerial Bipartite Commissions were created through Basic Operational Norm (Norma Operacional Básica ­
NOB) Number 01/03 that establishes this forum as a privileged instance for negotiation and decision-making, as well as for
operational aspects of the SUS .


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not available as the IADB project has not closed yet.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                          - 38 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

This project was prepared using the SAR format that did not include the log frame matrix. The
Key indicators presented below represent a modified version of those in SAR, agreed upon by the
Government and the Bank in November 1999. In this version, the baseline value of some original
indicators was modified according to more precise MS data; new indicators were added and a few
were suppressed, compared to the SAR table.

Table 1.1: REFORSUS Outcome Indicators

                      Indicators                          Baseline          Target        Actual/Latest      Comple-
                                                            1996                             Estimate       tion Date
 Health Outcomes
 1. Maternal Mortality Rate per 100,000 live births           42              <30              53.51/        12/2002
 2. Mortality due to injury (%)                             13%              None             12.6%2/        12/2001
 SUS Financing
 3. Arrears in reimbursements (days)                          45              <45               NA
 4. Percentage of costs reimbursed for high priority        50%              100%               NA
 interventions
 5. SUS hospitals recovering costs from privately              0              60%               NA
 insured patients (%)
 SUS Efficiency
 6. Hospital admission per capita (per 100 per year)          7.6             <10               7.3
 7.Ambulatory visits per capacity per year                    1.8             2.7               2.1
 8.Children aged 5 with full immunization                   84%                           96.6 DTP; 94.5     12/2002
                                                                                          small pox; 107%
                                                                                          BCG; 97.1%
                                                                                          Sabin 3/

 SUS Quality
 9. Pregnancies with prenatal care (visits per              1.27         Not specified          4.45         12/2002
 pregnancy)
 10. Hospital mortality rate per 100                        2.5%             None             2.74%  4/      12/2002


 11. Hospital infection rate                             Not known           None             16.5%5/
 SUS Decentralization
 12. Number of states and municipalities with              6 states         8 states       22 states and     12/2003
 advanced autonomy                                            83              400               632
                                                         Municipalit        Munici-       Municipalities6/

                                                              ies            palities
 13. Percentage of recurrent budgets transferred as         18%               60%              80.2%         12/2003
 block grants
 SUS Auditing
 14. Percentage of states and municipalities with              0            8 states         20 states       12/2003
 active audit system in place                                             400 Munic-            632
                                                                            ipalities      Municipalities


Source: IBRD Midterm Supervision Report (1999) and REFORSUS/MS 2004.
1/ In 1999, Brazil changed the method of calculating maternal mortality rate. Up to 1999 the denominator was obtained from
the Sistema de Informação de Mortalidade--SIM/MS; since then it is obtained from census data. Therefore this indicator does
not provide comparable information.
2/ As percentage of all deaths.



                                                           - 39 -

3/ The Programa Nacional de Imunizações of the Secretaria de Vigilância a Saude/MS reports coverage by type of vaccine.
4/ Calculated as follows: Percentage of authorized hospitalizations paid by SUS (Autorização de Internação Hospitar--A H)
over the total number of deaths given in the demographic census.
5/ According to the REFORSUS/ PCU/MS, the latest available study on the incidence of hospital infections was carried out by
Prade SS et al. (See, Revista Controle da Infecção Hospitalar 1995; 2:11-25). The study covered all state capitals and the
Federal District and found that hospital infection as a percentage of hospitalized patients varied from 14.6% to 16.3%.
6/ Classified as having "Autonomia Plena" according to the norms defined in the Basic Operational Norm of the SUS
(NOB/96) prevailing in 1996. As of 2001 these norms were modified (NOAS 2001) expanding the conditions to be met by
health care managers to be classified as having "Advanced Autonomy." For some municipalities adopting the NOAS/2001
would mean being demoted in the ranking, and for this reason those municipalities still operate on the basis of the NOB/96.

                     Table 1.2: Component I Distribution of Subprojects by Programmatic Area
                                IBRD                                  IADB                                  Total
 Program.         Unfinished     Complete Total         Unfinished     Complete Total         Unfinished    Complete     Total
 Area
 PA-I                        4          170      174              16          256      272             20         426     446
 PA-II                       0             0        0               0            0        0              0           0      0
 PA-III                      0            44       44               3           28      31               3          72     75
 PA-IV                       2             9       11               0           15      15               2          24     26
 Sub-total                   6          223      229              19          299      318             25         522     547
 Equipment
 PA-I                     118           396      514              63          299      362            181         695     876
 PA-II                      18            41       59               0            0        0            18           41     59
 PA-III                      4            66       70               3           28      31               7          94    101
 PA-IV                       0            11       11               1           14      15               1          25     26
 Sub-total                140           514      654              67          341      408            207         855    1,062
 TOTAL                    146           737      883              86          640      726            232        1,377   1,609


      Table 1.3: REFORSUS ­ Component I (PA-I) Increment in Hospitals Beds by Size of Facility
                                             (December 2002, IBRD only)

                                      Hospitals and Clinics                       Number of Beds Financed      1/

    Size of Facility
  (Total No. of Beds)         No.             %         Cumulative %           No.              %          Cumulative
                                                                                                               %
 < 5                            9            3.8              3.8               22              0.3            0.3
 5-30                         103           43.5             52.5             1,079            17.0           17.3
 31-50                         47           19.8             67.1             1,065            16.8           34.1
 51-100                        49           20.7             87.8             1,882            29.6           63.7
 101-300                       24           10.1             97.9             1,807            28.4           92.1
 > 300                          5            2.1             100.0             503              7.9          100.0
 Total                        237           100.0                             6,358           100.0
 Source: REFORSUS/MS. "Consolidado de Obras". December 2002
 1/ According to government reports, the latest estimate of the incremental number of beds financed by REFORSUS
 (December 2003) is 8,000. However, the detailed tables provided by them do not add up to 8,000.




                                                              - 40 -

     Table 1.4: REFORSUS ­ Component I PA-I, III and IV ­ Investments in
         Management Modernization as % of Total Subproject Investment
                                      (December 2002)

                                        No Investment            Some Investment in
Subprojects             Total          in Management          Management Improvements
                         No.            No.           %       No.     %       % of total
                                                                              investment
Hospitals and            449            270          60       179     40          2.6
Clinics
Blood Banks               66             44          67       22      33          2.5
Public Labs               23             8           35       15      65          0.9
     Total               538            322          60       216     40          2.4
Source: REFORSUS/MS "Consolidado de Obras." December 2002.



Table 1.5: REFORSUS Component I Programmatic Area II Training of Personnel
                              for the Family Health Program
                                           1998-2001
             Type of Training    1/                    No. Graduates            %
Introductory                                              48,866               69.9
Supervisory/Community Agent Instructors                    5,668               8.1
Professional Level Courses                                12,629               18.1
Specialized Professional Courses and                       2,767               4.0
Residencies
Total                                                     69,930              100.0
1/ Training provided in 31 centers serving all 27 states.
Source: Coordenação de Qualificação em Atenção Básica/DAB/MS "Relatório de Avaliação dos
Pólos de Capacitação, Formação e Educação Permanente para Pessoal de Saúde da Família 1998-
2001."



                          Table 1.6: REFORSUS Component II
                                      Completion Status
                        Source of Financing:               IBRD                IDB
Number of Activities                                         20                32
No. of Incomplete Activities                                 0                  3
% Incomplete                                                 0                 0.4
Estimated cost of activities (R$ million)                   37.0              167.9
Estimated cost of Incomplete activities
(R$ million)                                                 0                 15.8
% Incomplete                                                 0                 9.4
Source: REFORSUS/MS Component II.




                                                           - 41 -

Table 1.7: REFORSUS Component II

    Activities Financed by IBRD

Studies                                       R$ 000          Estimated     Completion
                                                              US$000        Date

1. Cost Analysis of Procedures of High and          985.6          363.3       Jun-02
Medium Complexity
2. Decentralization Process Evaluation in SUS       236.2          86.2        Oct-01
and Analysis of Total Management Impact in
the Municipal System
3. Cost and Impact Analysis of the PAB              721.0          265.8       Jun-02
4. Family Health Program Costs                      464.9          174.1       Sep-01
5. Study on the Bolsa Alimentação Program          2,616.4         907.7       Jun-03
Evaluation
6. Study on the Disease Load in Brazil             1,560.7         410.2       Oct-02
7. Studies on the New Models of Management          152.8          56.3        Jun-02
in Hospital Units
8. Financing and Provision of Services              552.6          188.4       Jul-02
Partition in the Health System: Services
Acquisition and Contractualization
9. Health Services Outsourcing in the Non-          163.7          59.8        Oct-01
Profit Hospital Network
10. Methodology of Equitable Resource               460.1          190.2       Feb-02
Allocation through SUS
11. Promotion, Analysis, Evaluation and            2,253.6         592.3       Oct-02
Dissemination of Innovative Experiences
throughout SUS
12. Cooperative Centers for Management and          266.8          113.0      Dez-01
Hospital Assistance Quality in SUS
13. Development of an Activity System for          1,583.4         541.4      Dec-03
Central Laboratories in Public Health ­ SILAB
14. Development and Implementation of a            13,558.4       3,791.9     Nov-02
Management Model in Large Health Units:
Pilot Project for Management Modernization
15. Process of Hospital Validation                  489.9          270.9      Aug-00
16. Health Information National System: RNIS       9,960.7        3,729.3      Sep-01
Other Activities
17. Evaluation of the Implementation and            214.5          107.2       Feb-01
Performance Process for Reference Statistic
Systems of Services for Pregnant Women
under High Risk
18. National Coordination of RNIS                   179.0          67.0        Sep-01
19. Supervision of Development and                  154.5          42.6       Dec-02
Implementation Pilot Projects for Management
Modernization in Large Health Units
20. Seminars UAA and ANVISA and Sample              419.1          227.5      Dec-99
PSF
Total IBRD                                         36,994.1       12,185.0




                                                 - 42 -

    REFORSUS: Component II Activities Financed by IADB

Studies                                              R$ 000      Estimated Completion
                                                                   US$000    Date
                                                                   1/

1. Study on the Economic and Financial                324.9       171.3      Sep-99
Feasibility of the National Plasma on the
Production of Blood Derivatives
2. Research on the Medical and Sanitary              1,700.0      589.8      Jun-03
Assistance
3. Studies on the Profile and Regulation of          1,340.4      758.4      Apr-00
Additional Medical Assistance
4. Distributive Impact of Public Expenditure in        64.9        26.3      Jul-01
the Health Sector
5. Study on the REFORSUS II Project                   130.9        39.2      Sep-02
6. Study on Modernization and Technologic           Cancelled
Development of Vaccine Production in Brazil
7. Model of Systematic Management: Audit              502.7       174.4      Jun-03
National System for SUS
8. Price Bank used in the Hospital Sector            3,099.0     1,060.6     Sep-03
9. Account National System in Health/SIOPS           3,131.5     1,071.7     Sep-03
10. Analysis of the Investment Sustainability         542.0       186.1     Nov-03
for REFORSUS
Management Consultancies and Training
11. Development and Implementation of a             16,038.8     5,564.4     Jun-03
Management Model in Large Health Units
(Pilot Projects of Management Modernization)
12. Institutional Strengthening and                  7,144.2     2,073.1    Mar-03
Development of the Secretariats in the
Brazilian States
13. Support Program to the Strengthening of          5,583.3     1,925.3    Mar-04
SUS Social Control: Training Course for
Municipal Counselors of Health and Members
of the Public Prosecutor's office
14. Distance Training in Operation of Medical        2,653.8      908.2      Sep-03
and Hospital Equipment
15. Management Distance Training for Small           2,387.3      795.8      Jan-04
and Medium Units
16. Environmental Health and Health Residue          1,720.7      588.9      Sep-03
Management Training through Continuous
Distance Education
17. Management Training for Hospital                  800.2       273.6     Dec-03
Administrators
18. Pilot Project Implementation for the Health     97,942.8     36,069.0   Dec-03
National Card
19. Cooperative Centers for Management and           2,900.0      800.0     Dec-02
Hospital Assistance Quality for SUS.
Technical Supervision and Evaluation
Activities




                                                 - 43 -

Technical Supervision and Evaluation Activities
20. Strengthening Support to SUS Social                    1,434.9               399.7           Feb-03
Control
21. Technical Support to the Health National               3,542.1               977.1           Dec-02
Card Implementation
22. Studies on Resource Application                        7,780.4              2,682.9          Jul-04
Categories, their Adjustment, Format and
Instruments for the REFORSUS Project
23. Technical Commission for Follow-up and                  134.9                49.7            Jun-02
Validation of the Health Cost Studies
24. Technical Commission for                               2,328.0               796.7           Sep-03
Pharmaceutical Assistance Improvement
25. External Evaluation for the Distance                     NA                   NA             Jun-03
Education Processes
26. Analysis Supervision of the Investment                  222.2                74.01           Aug-03
Sustainability for the REFORSUS Project
27. Supervision of Development Pilot                      2,296.93              796.88           Jun-03
Projects and Management Modernization
Implementation in Large Health Units
28. Training Support to Municipal and State                 239.6                66.1            Dec-02
Staff members who Manage Health Systems
and Services
29. Implementation and Performance                          353.3                176.6           Feb-01
Processes Evaluation for the Hospital
Reference State Systems for Urgency and
Emergency Services
30. Support to the Performance, Monitoring                 1,014.3               347.1           Sep-03
and Evaluation of Studies on Component II
and on Strategic Investments for REFORSUS.
31. Bidding Support to Vaccine Production                   134.4                57.9            Apr-02
32. Supervision, Follow-up and Evaluation of                386.0                107.5           Feb-03
the Institutional Strengthening for Health SES
Total IADB                                                167,874.5            59,608.1
GRAND TOTAL (IADB + IBRD)                                 204,868.6            71,793.1

1/ Estimated using average exchange rate for the month the study or activity was completed, and cannot
be taken to represent actual project cost except in the case of IDB-financed activity No. 18 for which
precise US$ figures were available.
Source: REFORSUS/MS. Component II Statistics




                                                      - 44 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal       Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate           Estimate             Appraisal
                           Component                                 US$ million        US$ million
I. Investment Fund                                                     650.00               527.77                 81.2
II. Institutional Development                                            50.00               86.10                172.2
Project Administration                                                    0.00               32.02

Total Baseline Cost                                                    700.00               645.89
  Physical Contingencies                                                  0.00                 0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                    50.00
                              Total Project Costs                      750.00               645.89
                     Total Financing Required                          750.00               645.89
The latest estimate in this table was based on a projection prepared by the Ministry of Health at the end of 2003.
Adjustments were made to the estimates to take into account undisbursed funds at the IBRD as well as the
cancellations of IBRD and IDB proceeds.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                    2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                 70.00             210.00            40.00              0.00            320.00
                                        (30.00)           (85.00)           (15.00)            (0.00)           (130.00)
2. Goods                                200.00              55.00            35.00              0.00            290.00
                                        (93.00)           (23.00)           (7.00)             (0.00)           (123.00)
3. Services                              0.00               0.00            100.00              0.00            100.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (35.00)            (0.00)           (35.00)
4. Administrative Costs                  0.00               0.00             14.00             14.00             28.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (12.00)            (0.00)           (12.00)
    Total                               270.00             265.00           189.00             14.00            738.00
                                       (123.00)           (108.00)          (69.00)            (0.00)           (300.00)
The original summary of procurement arrangements included in Annex B of the project's SAR incorrectly added
up the column "Other" of the table for a total of $201 million. The correct amount of $189 million is listed in the
table above, thus making the total $738 million, instead of $750 million.




                                                        - 45 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 14.39            129.70             69.65             0.00             213.74
                                           (12.51)           (43.11)           (16.35)            (0.00)           (71.97)
   2. Goods                                207.84             50.14             53.86             0.00             311.84
                                          (101.07)           (19.60)           (21.07)            (0.00)          (141.74)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             88.08             0.00             88.08
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (29.72)            (0.00)           (29.72)
   4. Administrative Costs                  0.00               0.00             32.23             0.00             32.23
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.01)            (0.00)           (9.01)
       Total                               222.23            179.84            243.82             0.00             645.89
                                          (113.58)           (62.71)           (76.15)            (0.00)          (252.44)
   The above table is an approximation of the final procurement summary report as it is based on a projection
   provided by the Ministry of Health and adjusted to reflect undisbursed amounts and cancellations.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I. Investment Fund             275.00       95.00       310.00       213.04        98.90     215.85      77.5     104.1     69.6
II. Institutional              25.00         5.00        40.00       26.70         2.30      57.10       106.8     46.0    142.8
Development
Project Administration                                               12.70                   19.30
Total Project Costs            300.00       100.00      350.00       256.35       101.20     292.25      85.5     101.2     83.5


The project's SAR did not provide component costs disaggregated among IBRD, IDB and Borrower. The appraisal
amounts submitted by the Borrower were inconsistent with the Annex A of the SAR. Thus, the "Appraisal Estimate"
above is an approximation prepared by the ICR team based on the limited information available. The "Latest
Estimate" is based on Government projections as well as adjustments made by the ICR team to take into consideration
undisbursed amounts and cancellations.




                                                           - 46 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 47 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/24/1995                5    PRINCIPAL HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR. PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS SPEC. (1);
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1); HEALTH
                                             SYSTEMS SPEC. (1)

              08/06/1995                3    SR. PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/18/1996                4    SR. PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPEC. (1); PRINCIPAL
                                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                             (1)



              05/13/1996                3    SR. PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                                             (1); LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              07/02/1997                5    PRINCIPAL HEALTH                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR. PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             CONSULTANT (1); HEALTH
                                             ADMINISTRATION (1)
              12/05/1997                5    SECTOR LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PRINCIPAL HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); FAMILY PHYSICIAN (1);
                                             HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
                                             (1)
              03/26/1998                5    SR. HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);        S               S
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/INF. SYSTEM
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)




                                              - 48 -

               10/23/1998                       3    CHIEF OF MISSION (1);                  S             S
                                                     OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                     CONSULTANT (1)
               04/26/2000                       4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S             S
                                                     OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                     PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                                     (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                                     ANALYST (1)
               07/27/2000                       5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S             S
                                                     OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                     FINANC. MGT. ANALYST (1);
                                                     PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                     PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)
               04/25/2001                       5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S             S
                                                     ECONOMIST (1);
                                                     OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                     PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                     DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1)
               11/12/2001                       2    SR. PUB. HEALTH SPEC. (1);             S             S
                                                     OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)


 ICR
               03/02/2004                      4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                     CONSULTANTS (3)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         *
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              *                    339,005.0**
  Supervision                                     146                       713,677.0
  ICR                                              3.9                        49,200.0
  Total                                                                   1,101,882.0
* Data not available.
* * This figure includes all aspects of lending (Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations).




                                                     - 49 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


FENSPTEC/JSI/FECAMP. Análise da Sustentabilidade dos Investimentos Acima de US$1
   Milhão do Projeto REFORSUS, Outubro 2003.

John Snow do Brasil/Unicamp/ENSP/Fiocruz. Brasília, outubro de 2003. Análise da
   Sustentatibilidade dos Investimentos Acima de US$1 milhão do Projeto Reforsus--Relatório
   Final (in two volumes).

Ministério da Saúde, 2002A, Secretaria de Políticas de Saúde, Departamento de Atenção Básica,
   Coordenação de Qualificação em Atenção Básica. Relatório de Avaliação dos Pólos de
   Capacitação, Formação e Educação Permanente para Pessoal de Saúde da Família,
   1998-2001; Brasília.

Ministério da Saúde, Secretaria-Executiva, Projeto REFORSUS. Secretaria de Assistência à
   Saúde, Brasília, 1997. "REFORSUS, Manual de Operação Componente I."

____________________. Brasília, 1997. "REFORSUS, Manual de Operação Componente II."

Ministério da Saúde, Secretaria-Executiva, Projeto REFORSUS. Relatórios de Desempenho e
   Anexos Novembro 2000, Novembro 2001, Setembro 2002, Dezembro 2003, Março 2004.
____________________. Maio 2003. Relatório de Gestão Area Programática IV Ampliação da
   Capacidade e Melhoria da Qualidade dos Laboratorios Centrais de Saúde.
____________________. Maio 2003. Relatório de Gestão Area Programática III Ampliação da
   Capacidade e Melhoria da Qualidade da Rede Hematologica e Hemoterápica.

___________________. Novembro de 2000. Relatório de Desempenho, Anexo 4: Relatório de
   Desempenho do Componente II.

Ministério da Saúde, Secretaria-Executiva, Projeto REFORSUS, Dezembro 2002. Consolidado de
   Obras. CD

Ministério da Saúde, Secretaria de Assistência à Saúde. Reforma do Sistema Hospitalar Brasileiro
   ­ Pequenos Hospitais: Uma Estratégia Alternativa de Organização e Financiamento; Brasília
   2004.
Quinhões, Trajano A. Tavares e Ferrato Dos Santos, Gabriel. 2003. Transformações no processo
   de gestão da saúde no Brasil. Paper presented at the VIII International Congress of CLAD on
   State Reform and Public Administration, held in Panamá on October 28-31, 2003.

REFORSUS-DATASUS. Rede Nacional de Informações em Saúde--RNIS. Rio de Janeiro, 26 de
   outubro de 2001. Relatório de Progresso: Outubro de 2001.

Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional. 15 de janeiro de 1997. Instrução Normativa No. 01 de 15 de
   janeiro de 1997 da Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional: Disciplina a Celebração de Convênios
   de Natureza Financeira que Tenham por Objeto a Execução de Projetos ou Realização de
   Eventos e da Outras Providências.

Secretaria de Atenção à Saúde, Departamento de Atenção Especializada. Coordenação de Atenção
   Hospitalar/MS. Fevereiro 2004. Reforma do Sistema Hospitalar Brasileiro. Pequenos
   Hospitais: Uma estratégia alternativa de organização e financiamento. Draft.



                                                  - 52 -

___________________. 2004. "Atenção Hospitalar no SUS (Versão Preliminar)."

Secretaria Executiva. Reforço à Reorganização do Sistema Único de Saúde /MS. Novembro de
   2000. Conclusão dos Investimentos: Relação dos Subprojetos Complementares com
   Justificativas.

Secretaria de Gestão do Trabalho e da Educação na Saúde. Departamento de Gestão da Educação
   na Saúde/MS. Brasília, 25 de agosto 2003. Políticas de Formação e Desenvolvimento para o
   SUS: Caminhos para a educação permanente em saúde.

The World Bank. May 21, 1996. "Staff Appraisal Report. Brazil. Health Sector Reform
   Project--REFORSUS."
___________________. September 27, 1996. "Loan Agreement (Loan Number 4047-BR)."

___________________. October 11, 1996. "Amendment (Loan Number 4047-BR)."

___________________. (1996-2003) "Brazil: Health Sector Reform Project (Loan 4047-BR)
   Supervision Reports" dated: 7/1996; 2/1997; 6/1997; 7/15/1997, 12/12/1997, 4/6/1998;
   3/26/1998; 10/15/1998; 6/13/1999; 12/29/1999; 5/3/2000; 7/27/2000; 4/25/2001; 11/12/2001;
   6/2002; 12/2002; 5/2003; and 11/2003.

___________________. 1997. "Quality of Supervision Assessment."

___________________. December 29, 1999. "Brazil: Health Sector Reform
   Project--REFORSUS--Mid-term review Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report."

___________________. October 2002. "Procurement Post Review Supervision Mission Report."




                                                 - 53 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Brief Background:

In 1996, the Federal Senate's Temporary Commission on Unfinished Works (Comissão Temporária de
Obras Inacabadas) elaborated a report entitled A Snapshot of Waste in Brazil (Retrato do Desperdício no
Brasil). Amongst other data, this report stated that there were approximately 2000 unfinished works and
projects in the sector of public health.

Within such context, the Reforsus Project came about in 1996 with the objective of minimizing the lack of
investments made in the infrastructure of construction work in medical assistance facilities. In addition, the
project also strived to renew and update the medical and hospital equipment in such facilities ­ many of
which were in precarious state of preservation and were consequently not in working conditions. At the
time, the Project was noted as being the biggest investment that had ever been undertaken by the Federal
Government in the social area.

For the Project to be carried out, the financing banks and governmental bodies (federal, state, and local)
decided that all sub-projects that would be approved and financed would be of each state's responsibility.
The Municipal Secretariats of Health, Non-profit Institutions, and the State Secretariats of Health would
define which investments were most needed in each region, within the limited budget that had been
previously approved for each state.

Objectives:

Project Reforsus objectives were: (i) the implementation of strategic measures geared towards the
strengthening of the development of the Single Health System (Sistema Único de Saúde ­ SUS) so as to
contribute to the entirety, integration, and equality in the access to health and medical services and hence
(ii) improve the SUS´s capacity and efficiency through means of recuperating the physical and
technological facilities of the existing health services network, and finally (iii) promote institutional
development in the health sector through measures aimed at improving the system's managerial capacity at
its different levels.

Design:

With the objective of enhancing Project operationalization and efficiency guarantee, Project actions were
idealized and grouped in two components that were subdivided according to programmatic areas.

Component I ­ Encompasses hospital, medical office, and support services in different levels of complexity
so as to guarantee the undertaking of measures focused on the promotion, protection, and recovery of
health so as to support the improvement in the SUS´s capacity and efficiency.

Programmatic Areas of Component I:

·        Programmatic Area I­ Physical and Technological re-adaptation of the health assistance network.
·        Programmatic Area II ­ Family Health Program.
·        Programmatic Area III ­ Enlargement and improvement in the quality of the hematological and
hemotherapic networks.




                                                      - 54 -

·        Programmatic Area IV ­ Increase in the capacity and improvement in the quality of Public Health
Laboratories.

Component II ­ This component is geared towards System management and aims to provide management
organizations (Ministry of Health, State Secretariats of Health, and Municipal Secretariats of Health) with
tools that allow them to carry out managerial duties in a more efficient manner according to the SUS´s
premises. The component abides to differentiated standards and finances consulting services. It also
includes technical assistance, epidemiologic, economic and legal studies, as well as seminars, consensus
groups, workshops, field studies, training and publications that foster innovations in the management of the
health sector.

Programmatic Areas of Component II:

·        Programmatic Area I ­ National Information Network.
·        Programmatic Area II ­ Strengthening Policy-Making Capacity.
·        Programmatic Area III ­ Managerial Development and Training.
·        Programmatic Area IV ­ Improvement and Quality Guarantee in Health.

In light of the exchange rate variation, there was an excess of funds corresponding to the devaluing of the
national currency (the Real). Hence, there was a raise of investment in existing components such as
strategic investments (high-risk pregnancies), new studies for Component II, and investment in equipment
for the sub-projects that were initially contemplated with construction of facilities and for the sub-projects
that were contemplated with equipment that did not fully meet their needs.

Project Implementation:

Construction Work­ Of the 562 construction works that were contemplated with Reforsus funds, 237
(42%) (in 229 sub-projects) received resources from the World Bank. The proposals for construction
works included Component I's four programmatic areas, with special priority having been given to the
conclusion of unfinished facilities, enlargement and remodeling of existing medical facilities. The inclusion
of new proposals was only admitted in Programmatic Areas III and IV (Hemorrede and Lacens). It's
important to note that in the construction work category, a total of 1796 visits to the 229 World Bank
projects were carried out, averaging 7.84 visits per sub-project.

It is also important to mention that the number of construction works (237) is greater than the number of
sub-projects (229) as some sub-projects were contemplated with more than one construction work. The
sub-projects in Programmatic Area III (Hemorrede) invariably encompass more than one hemotherapic unit
in a single sub-project and are worthy of special mention.

Equipment ­ Of the 614 sub-projects that were contemplated with equipment of high, medium, and low
complexity and which were financed by the World Bank, 311 sub-projects were supervised (approximately
50%). If we take the high-complexity area, we can highlight that a total of 415 pieces of equipment were
acquired with World Bank resources as for example: 08 linear accelerators, 22 computerized
tomographers, and 03 magnetic resonance machines.

It is worth mentioning that the total value of the supervised sub-projects corresponded to approximately
60% of the total amount allocated for the category. This fact demonstrates that priority was given to the
supervision of sub-projects making use of greater financial amount.




                                                     - 55 -

Comparison of Project Financing per Component (in US$)



                                                       Original
Component
                        World Bank            IDB               GOV              Total
Component I            233,000,000.00     223,550,000.00     91,800,000.00     548,350,000.00
PA I                   174,137,000.00     152,414,000.00     62,424,000.00     388,975,000.00
PA II                   22,900,000.00      22,600,000.00      9,180,000.00      54,680,000.00
PA III                  25,565,000.00      26,435,000.00     11,016,000.00      63,016,000.00
PA IV                   10,398,000.00      22,101,000.00      9,180,000.00      41,679,000.00
Strategic Investment             0.00               0.00              0.00               0.00
Component II            30,000,000.00      99,850,000.00      8,200,000.00     138,050,000.00
Project
Administration          12,000,000.00      23,100,000.00              0.00      35,100,000.00

Reserve                 25,000,000.00      3,500,000.00               0.00      28,500,000.00
Total                  300,000,000.00     350,000,000.00    100,000,000.00     750,000,000.00



Component                                                 Final
                           World Bank            IDB              GOV             Total
Component I                 244,889,156.34    255,249,304.66     98,876,606.26 599,015,067.26
PA I                        159,825,416.16    183,711,467.19     77,708,628.36 421,245,511.71
PA II                        26,718,500.52              0.00      2,532,474.74  29,250,975.26
PA III                       27,294,677.02     12,181,751.76      7,608,563.39  47,084,992.17
PA IV                        14,050,772.49      7,385,915.74      4,841,280.68  26,277,968.91
Strategic Investment         16,999,790.16     51,970,169.97      6,185,659.08  75,155,619.21
Component II                 26,730,459.64     57,064,881.88      2,285,144.66  86,080,486.18
Project Administration       12,696,941.13     19,318,599.09              0.00  32,015,540.22
Reserve                               0.00              0.00              0.00           0.00
Total                       284,316,557.11    331,632,785.63    101,161,750.91 717,111,093.66



Comparison of the Project Financing per Expenditure Category (in US$)

                                                        Original
        Category
                          World Bank            IDB               GOV            Total
No allocation                25,000,000.00      3,500,000.00             0.00   28,500,000.00
Administrative Expenses      12,000,000.00     23,100,000.00             0.00   35,100,000.00
Construction Work           121,000,000.00     55,000,000.00    34,627,000.00  210,627,000.00
Goods                       112,000,000.00    169,550,000.00    53,944,000.00  335,494,000.00
Consulting Services          30,000,000.00     98,850,000.00    11,429,000.00  140,279,000.00
Total                       300,000,000.00    350,000,000.00   100,000,000.00  750,000,000.00




                                                 - 56 -

                                                                Final
           Category
                                 World Bank             IDB               GOV               Total
 No allocation                               0.00              0.00               0.00             0.00
 Administrative Expenses           12,696,941.13      19,318,599.09               0.00   32,015,540.22
 Construction Work                 60,584,975.71      89,852,917.67     62,689,377.83   213,127,271.21
 Goods                            176,170,197.70     147,311,775.85     36,290,218.03   359,772,191.58
 Consulting Services               34,864,442.56      75,149,493.02      2,182,155.07   112,196,090.65
 Total                            284,316,557.10     331,632,785.63    101,161,750.93   717,111,093.66
  Note: US$ 21.120.000,00 from the World Bank and US$ 56.547.869,94 from the IDB were cancelled.

For the effect of evaluating the assistance activities undertaken by the medical institutions encompassed by
the Reforsus Project, a model was elaborated with the objective of verifying the attainment and reach of the
goals pertaining to the assistance proposals that justify the investments made. This strategy initially strived
to monitor the institutions through means of general and specific indicators pertaining to the facilities that
were benefited by the Project (construction works and medical equipment).

Taking into consideration the fact that this evaluation strategy demanded long periods of time and a large
technical Project structure that could not be assured as a result of the Project term, a decision was made in
the first semester of 2003 for a change in the focal point of the monitoring and evaluation strategy.

To ensure the efficacy of the use of resources and the possibilities in appropriation of this component's
results and impacts, an evaluation on the projects resulting projects is being carried out. In addition to this
evaluation's specific objectives, it is expected that new operations regarding institutional development of
the various segments of the Single Health System be established.

The products were organized according to the six areas described below:

·        Economic studies and analyses on financing, costs, and the allocation of resources, distinction
between provision and financing;
·        Decentralization, institutional strengthening, and models for the organization of decentralized
structures;
·        Organization and management of health services and systems;
·        Health assistance quality and regulation;
·        Development of information systems for health services;
·        Distance training of human resources in the health sector.

The evaluation of these products is expected to be finished by the end of the first semester of 2004.

Experience during the process:

Dealing with the concept of quality during the evaluation process is difficult as a result of its subjective
nature. Nonetheless, after eight years of Project activity, the results point out that many of the historical
obstacles in the fight for better health services were overcome and that it is possible for hospitals in the
SUS to offer dignified and quality medical services.

The Reforsus Project supported the improvement of the health sector in the country and trained
professionals. In addition, it served as an example that shows that success in large-scale social projects is



                                                      - 57 -

possible. The Project's main objectives were reached: good service began to be offered to citizens,
employees were trained, and health facilities became "healthier" through international-level construction
work and modern equipment.

An important aspect that must be observed is that the distribution of resources for hospitals aimed to
establish greater equality among the states. This way, 70 percent of the resources was proportionally
distributed according to the number of inhabitants and 30 percent was distributed inversely proportional to
the per capita expenditure made by the Ministry of Health in the same period. Although the more densely
populated and occasionally richer states received more resources in figures, the poorest ones received a
greater per capita investment.

Although the Reforsus Project was the biggest project carried out in terms of public investment in the
health sector, the amount of Project resources represents only a fraction of total investments made in the
sector by the three spheres of government. In addition, it represents only a fraction of the amount of
resources that are needed to make the services network adequate and allow the network to offer more ample
reach and equality in the services offered to citizens in all of the country's regions and municipalities.

In this sense, it can be said that the Project investments were successful in those places that benefited from
the clear impact of increased and improved services. However, in a national scale, the results of such
investments cannot be differentiated from the results of other initiatives made by the three spheres of
government.

The Reforsus Project has virtuously shown to Brazil its capacity of facing up tough challenges in the social
area as well as presenting results of excellence. The project has consolidated new significant management
tools for the health sector, such as the National Health Information Network (Rede Nacional de
Informações em Saúde - RNIS), National Health Card (Cartão Nacional de Saúde), Hospital Prices Bank
(Banco de Preços Hospitalares), Evaluation of Costs and Impact of PAB (Avaliação dos Custos e
Impacto do PAB), among others.

Moreover, the Project resources for the recovery and betterment of SUS have allowed the Union to invest in
important programs such as haemodialysis and the equipping of hospitals. In light of these specific
measures, the project management framework, in conjunction with federal funds to meet the strategic needs
that were defined upon the Project's initial investment definitions. Reforsus' investment has also allowed
State and Local Governments to invest in other areas of the public health sector.

Another important contribution made by the Reforsus Project was the fact that it allowed acquired
experiences and knowledge to be made available to the states, municipalities, public health organizations,
as well as to other countries.

Nationally, the Project has started a tradition of excellent service. Thus, it has also taught, though at a slow
pace, the population to demand more from public organizations.

The Reforsus Project's sustainability is ensured by its implementation feature. It has worked with the
decision-making units of the SUS, by making use of pacts with the federative bodies in order to implement
subprojects in joint action with several institutions which are part of the SUS.

In light of this, a financial-political agenda was defined in conjunction with the National Council of Health
(Conselho Nacional de Saúde ­ CNS), Tripartite Inter-Managerial Commission (Comissão Intergestora
Tripartite ­ CIT), Project Management Unit



                                                      - 58 -

(Unidade de Gerência do Projeto ­ UGP), Regional Technical Support Units (Unidades de Apoio Técnico
Regional ­ UATRs), State Councils of Health (Conselhos Estaduais de Saúde ­ CES), Bipartite
Inter-managerial Commissions (Comissões Intergestoras Bipatites ­ CIBs), State Secretariats of Health
(Secretarias Estaduais de Saúde ­ SES), Municipal Councils of Health (Conselhos Municipais de Saúde
­ CMS), Municipal Secretariats of Health (Secretarias Municipais de Saúde ­ SMS) and Banco do
Brasil ­ BB.

In addition, it is worth mentioning that a series of factors have directly affected the execution of Reforsus,
as well its results.

The methodology that was initially applied and the execution management have caused delay in the
execution of the Project, and have made it several Loan Agreement renewals necessary.

Performance of the Reforsus Project was affected by the elections that took place in the country, as the
electoral process that took place in federal, state and municipal scope during the execution of the project
resulted in changes in the staff involved with the Reforsus Project in the states and municipalities.

Lack of counterpart resources on behalf of proponent institutions has also delayed the execution of some
projects, as the design of Reforsus required a financial counterpart.

The fact that the Procurement Commissions of Proponent Institutions required the use of the procurement
rules of financing banks also caused delay in the acquisition process. The states and municipalities' teams'
resistance to the use of those rules, as well as the high rotation of regional staff, made the trainings of the
Project in the states difficult. Therefore, that demand made it necessary form a team specially in
procurement processes to be formed at the UGP, so as to provide constant consulting services in that matter
to proponent institutions.

The decisions made by some states to decentralize their projects (greatest number of projects approved due
to low price financing), e.g. Minas Gerais, has impaired the control and monitoring of the actions
implemented by a series of beneficiaries, when compared to those states that centralized the investments in
reference units in health assistance.

The lack of standardization of technical specifications of equipment to be financed resulted in great
diversification of acquired models.

The option for the decentralized management model for the Project, in which technical, operational and
administrative impairments of the proponent institutions are of essential importance, has strengthened the
consolidation of the management capacity of government bodies of the SUS.

The model adopted by the Reforsus for the elaboration and presentation of proposals was essential for the
standardization of information and selection criteria. That model, however, brought about some
operationalization impairments in the proponents' scope. The model interfered with the technical teams'
analysis and use of information presented due to the lack of automated tools.

In light of their broad service network, the partnership between the Ministry of Health and Banco do Brasil
(financing agency of the Project) can be seen as a positive strategy. Nevertheless, this strategy was
hindered by the delay in the definition and operational adequacy of the Bank, and which consequently lead
to delays in the development of project measures.




                                                      - 59 -

The fact that the UGP was not defined as a Management Unit (independent budget and finance for the
project) resulted in slow Project disbursement.

The training given to state and municipal staff on the rules of the Project and financing banks was crucial
to Project performance. However, as most of the proponents did not have previous experience in projects
financed by external resources, the training did not prevent delays from occurring.

Borrower's performance evaluation:

Considering the Senate's report and the problems presented in the execution of the resources by means of
partnerships, the Ministry of Health decided to execute this Project through contracts with Institutions
whose subprojects had been approved. This fact has never occurred in projects that rely on external
financing. This innovation facilitated a more accurate control of the application resources application as the
funds were only transferred after the conclusion of procurement processes and the delivery of goods and
services.

Due to the need of keeping tight control on the finances, the Project opened a Banco do Brasil account for
each beneficiary unit. The resources transferred to those accounts could only be used for expenses
pertaining to procurement activities or for direct payment of contracted parties. Although this procedure
was initially slow, it prevented embezzlement and maladministration of public resources.

Another lesson was learned for future projects. The distribution of any amount of resources to small
projects should be avoided, for it can interfere in the quality repercussion of local health network, in
relation to the amount of money invested.

The great number of subprojects contemplated with resources in several categories and programmatic areas
made it imperative for new analysis, control, and management tools to be created. Such instruments were
modified and improved during the implementation process in face of new situations presented.

The execution management model included the participation of technicians of Technical Support Units I, II
and III (- Unidades de Apoio Técnico I, II e III - UATRs) and of state managers. It also required that
private companies took over supervision, which showed that decentralized actions have positive and
negative aspects.

Decentralization in the scope of proposal evaluation and contracting of goods and services proved to be
effective as a result of the local staff's better knowledge of the local realities.

A starting price should be established for investments in construction and equipment. This step would
prevent proponents from not making sufficient investment in their proposals and would hence avoid
contracting poorly qualified professionals. In addition, the starting price would not allow for a supervision
system to be justifiable.

The World Bank's performance evaluation:

In the initial stage of Reforsus Project, the publishing of the notice with invitation to bidding was deferred
due to the fact that the bank took too long to carry out the previous analysis of which it was in charge.
However, the fact that Brasilia's BIRD Office had autonomy to issue No Objections greatly facilitated the
procurement process.


                                                      - 60 -

Also, some informal negotiation on the rendering of accounts took place in the beginning of the Project. In
2001, the World Bank forwarded constant glosses to the Reforsus Project with no official presentation of
the reasons for turning down the expenses presented. In 2003, under new management, Reforsus'
technicians and coordinators gained autonomy to criticize and took interest in understanding the internal
flow of the World Bank. Aiming at avoiding future glosses and facilitating the analysis in Washington, the
Project team presented and forwarded the Applications with the necessary documentation required by the
World Bank and hence avoided further complications.

Due to lack of communication and formal definition of work routine procedures of the Project and the
Bank, eligible expenses were made and caused a decrease of the special Banco do Brasil accounts and
expenditure reduction for the Project execution. That fact delayed financial availability for the Project.

After the first expenditure, the Project Applications were analyzed by the World Bank's office in Brasilia.
The problems found were easily solved. When half of the loan amount was reached, as established by the
Bank, the rendering of accounts started to be analyzed by the finance analysts in Washington. This fact
made it harder for the Project finance technicians and the World Bank's analysts to identify problems and
have them solved quickly, which interfered with the Reforsus Project's agility to reach the goals established
by the World Bank.

The Bank also delayed the issuing of a small number of No Objections concerning the Report on the
Evaluation of International Procurement Processes, which caused delay in the disclosing the discussion
results and, consequently, in the contracts.

Despite of that, it is worth mentioning that the World Bank has a great relationship with Brazilian
government bodies. Also, it always counts on a team that is able to have good negotiations with the
Ministry of Health's team, is interested in implementing the Project and negotiating the Loan Agreement,
and is always available for clarification.




                                                    - 61 -

- 62 -

