Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15522-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT -- REFORSUS
May 21, 1996
Social and Human Capital Development Group
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =    Real (R$)
US$ 1.00    =     R$ 0.99 (April 1996)
R$ 1.00    =     US$ 1.01
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December I
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BB            Banco do Brasil / Bank of Brazil
BNDES         Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social / National Bank
for Economic and Social Development
CEME          Central de Medicamentos/Central Pharmaceutical Agency
CNS           Conse!ho Nacional de Saude/National Health Council
COFINS        Contribui,o para o Financiamento da Seguridade Social/Soc. Security
Financing Contribution
CONASENS  Cons. Nac. de Secret. Munic. de Saude/Nat. Council of Municipal Health
Secretariats
CONASS        Cons. Nac. dos Secret. Estaduais de Saude/Nat. Council of State Health
Secretariats
FAT           Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador/Workers Assistance Fund
FUNASA        Funda,co Nacional de Saude/National Health Foundation
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoB           Government of Brazil
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
INAN          Inst. Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao / Nat. Food and Nutrition Institute
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MIMIR         Maternal Mortality Rate
MoH           Ministerio da Saude/Ministry of Health
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO          Pan American Health Organization
PASEP         Progr. de Assistencia ao Servidor Publico/Publ. Empolyee Assistance Prog.
PIS           Programa de Integracao Social/Company Social Contribution
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SEAIN         Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais/Secretariat of International Affairs
SIA/SUS       Sistema de Informacao Ambulatorial/Ambulatory Information System
SIH/SUS       Sistema de Informa,co Hospitalar/Hospital Information System
SOEs          Statement of Expenses
SSB           Or,amento da Seguridade Social/Social Security Budget
STD           Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SUS           Sistema Unico de Saude/Unified Health System



BRAZIL
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT - REFORSUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . .  .  . ..                    .... ..ij
1 INTRODUCTION            .                  .      . .I
2. HEALTH SECTOR BACKGROUND...                    . ..   ..                   I
RECENT ECONOMIC TRENDS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS .  .   ...                 I
POVERTY AND SOCIAL EXPENDITURES         . . .  . . . . . .             2
POPULATION                                                             2
MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY. ...                                          3
ORGANIZATION OF HEALTH CARE.                . .                        4
1996 FEDERAL HEALTH SECTOR BUDGET . . . . . . . . .                    9
3. HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT POLICY                                11
HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES.  . ...        . ...........                     11
GOVERNMENT HEALTH SECTOR POLICY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 4
4. PROJECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSITION.                                          16
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .       .             ........... .  .......16
COMPONENTS AND ACTIVITIES . .  . . . ... ... . . ... . . ... . . . . 1 7
5 PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                                 9 . . .. . . . . . .  1 9
PROJECT COSTS.                            . . . . . ... . .  . .      19
FINANCING     PLAN                         . . . .................  . ... . .   ....   . ......  20
6. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS, IMPLEMENTATION AND
MANAGEMENT             ..  . .. ... . . .                  . .. . . .    21
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION .........21............ .. ... .... . 21
DISBURSEMENTS AND DOCUMENTATION OF EXPENDITURES...                    27
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITS    . ..                   28
7 SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......... ..                        30
8 ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS                                                    .43
9. BENEFITS AND RISKS                    . ...........  .. . .    .          43
BENEFITS  ..... .   .....  ......   ...  .. ..                        43
10. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION....                              . 46
AGREEM ENTS   .. . ... ..............   .. .. .. .  .. .. ..   .      46
RECOMMENDATION   . .      ... . . . . .  ..   . . .... .. .           47



ANNEXES
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN ..................................................  48
B. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ......................................               49
C. TiMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS ....................................... ,51
D. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS .52
E. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .54
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP) .56
G. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF KEY STUDIES .60
H. SUPERVISION IMPLEMENTATION PLAN ............................................74
I. PROPOSED SECTORAL POLICY CONDITIONALITY MATRIX .75
J. LETTER OF HEALTH POLICY .,,76
K. ORGANIZATION OF HEALTH CARE IN BRAZIL .81
L. RECOMMENDATIONS ON KEY STRATEGIES FOR THE SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM .88
M. IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT ACTIONS: PRIVATE SECTOR AND SOCIAL SERVICES .90
N. LIST OF PRIORITY 1 INTERVENTIONS TO BE FINANCED BY THE SUS .91
0. ALLoCATION OF REFORSUS INVESTMENT CEILINGS BY STATE .92
P. COUNTRY AND HEALTH INDICATORS .96
Q. SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS .                                                    98
R. SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES .100
This report is based on the findings ofjoint IBRD/IDB preparation and appraisal mission that
visited Brazil in August, October, December 1995, February and March 1996. Mission
members were for IBRD: A. Abrantes (Task Manager), J J de St. Antoine, J. Moscoso (LASHC);
and Philip Musgrove (HDD); A. Brito de Sa, Jesus Hernandez, C. Hurtado, A. Medici and F
Ramos (consultants); for IDB: P. Roldan (Task Manager), J.L. Bobadilla, T. Engler, ML.
Escobar (REI/SOI), and Ricardo Bitran and Lila Dur6n (consultants). Messrs. Gobind T
Nankani (LAIDR) and Alain Colliou (LASHC) are the Department Director and Division Chief,
respectively, for this operation. Peer reviewers are Antonio C. Campos (EC4HR); Xavier Coll
(HDD); and Willy de Geyndt (ASTHR); and Henry Aaron (Brookings Inshtution). The other
reviewers and consultants who also contributed to this report are: Homi Kharas (LAI CO) and
Orville Grimes (LA lDR); T Polly Jones, Maureen Lewis (LASHC); Valeria Junho
Pena(LATENV); Alberto Ninio (LEGLA); Carlos Trabucco (L4TSO); and Oswaldo Coelho
(consultant).



BRAZIL
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT -- REFORSUS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Health
Beneficiary:               Ministry of Health, states, municipalities and intermunicipal
consortia, philanthropic health care providers
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    US$300 million equivalent
Terms:                     Fifteen years maturity including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:            0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending terms:           The proceeds of the loan will be passed on as grants to
public and not-for-profit health care institutions, which
provide services to the the Unified Health System, under
conditions set in performance contracts agreed with the
Bank.
Financing Plan:            See para. 6.4.
Net Present Value:         Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No.15522-BR'
Map:                       IBRD No. 20444 R
The project was jointly prepared and appraised by The World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank. The Staff Appraisal Report and the related Socio Economic and Financial
Analysis are the product of both Banks.






I
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    This report presents the Brazil Health Sector Reform project for which a loan of
US$300 million to the Federative Republic of Brazil is proposed. Total project cost is
estimated at US$750 million. The loan would be a the Bank's standard variable interest
rate, with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace. This report describes the
health sector in Brazil, analyzes the issues it faces, and presents the Government's strategy
to address these issues. The report then proposes the Bank's involvement in the financing
of the Brazil health sector reform program, and provides parameters for project
implementation.  An analysis of the Brazilian economy is included in the Country
Assistance Strategy for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 6, 1995. The Government
has presented its health sector reform program in a Letter of Health Policy (Annex J).
2. HEALTH SECTOR BACKGROUND2  3
Recent Economic Trends and Future Prospects
2.1   In the recent past, Brazil has undergone major political and social transformations.
Democracy has been restored, the economy has become less statist, and significant
political power has been devolved to the states and municipalities. Brazil's private sector
has experienced high efficiency and productivity gains as the economy has been gradually
opened. The Brazilian authorities and the Bank concur that the central policy objective
over the medium term is the fight against poverty and inequity. Four sets of policy
initiatives are required to mount a sustained attack on poverty: stabilization and broad
based growth; reform of the roles of federal and state government; specific policies in the
areas of human capital formation, including education and health, infrastructure and
environment; and specific anti-poverty policies, including both rural and urban poverty
2PAHO: Health Conditions in the Americas (Washington, D.C.: Pan American Health Organization,
1994).
3The World Bank: World Development Report 1994: Infrastructure for Development (New York, NY:
Oxford University Press, 1994).



2
initiatives. This project would support the Government's implementation of specific
policies in the health sector.
Poverty and Social Expenditures4
2.2    Brazil's economic stagnation in the 1980s has left about 24 million Brazilians, 17.4
percent of the population, living below the poverty line in 1990. The level of poverty is
well above the average for a middle-income country and affects disproportionately the
population in the Northeast.
Figure 2.1: Brazil: Public Social Spending by  2.3    Social Spending has a critical
Program - 1990               role to play in improving the welfare of
In billions of US Dollars      the poor by mitigating the consequences
Soc.
Security &                            of poverty, and  by  facilitating  their
Soc.
Assist 3                 Education    efforts to move out of poverty. Brazil
20.0(22%)    spends large sums of money on social
4.6 (5%j                            programs, disbursing US$90 billion on
Housin ....         &             them, or about a fifth of the GDP in
6.51            Sntlon
NutritIon  1S.7 1%)          1990.   However, this has not been
i.2 (1%)                    translated  into  a strong  position  on
social indicators or poverty alleviation.
The fact that social indicators are still so poor suggests serious inefficiencies in the
structure and delivery of social services.  Decentralizing the management of social
programs could make services better reflect the needs of beneficiaries and avoid the high
overheads associated with a centralized approach.
Population
2.4    According to the 1991 census, the Brazilian population numbers 146 million. The
average annual growth rate between 1980 and 1991 was 1.93 percent, a marked decline
from the rates of 2.5 and 2.9 percent registered during the 1970s and 1960s, respectively.
The total fertility rate declined from 4.9 in 1970 to 2.8 in 1992. Seventy-six percent of the
population is now urban. Between 1960 and 1991, the proportion of children aged 0-14
decreased from 43 percent to 34 percent, while the proportion of people aged 60 or more
increased from 4.7 to 6.1 percent. The nine largest metropolitan areas grew at a much
slower rate in the 1980s than in the earlier decade, but growth has picked up in the
country's medium-sized cities. As a result of the decline in fertility and mortality, the
elderly population in Brazil is growing rapidly. In the year 2000, it is estimated that 10
percent of the total population will be aged 60 or more.
4 The World Bank: Brazil: A Poverty Assessment. (Washington, DC: World Bank Report No 14322-
BR, 1995).



3
Mortality and Morbidity
2.5    Health conditions have
Figure 2.2. Infant Mortality Rate per 1,000  improved  over the  past 20
Births for Selected Countries - 1970 and 1993  years. From 1970 to 1993, life
expectancy grew  from  61 to
130                                       67 years and infant mortality
1101                                      declined from 95 to 42 deaths
so 1                                     per 1000 births. Despite these
70    CH                                 improvements,   the   infant
60     A                                 motality rate (IMR) continues
30-                                      to  be high  in  impoverished
.0 -                         l           parts of the country such as the
___70 _ _    _     __                   Northeast, where the 1989 the
IMR was 92 per 1,000 live
births, and is worse than what could be expected for an upper middle income country such
as Brazil. Argentina, Chile, and even lower income countries such as Jamaica have more
favorable rates of decline of IMR than Brazil. Neonatal mortality remained stable during
the 1980s at approximately 25 deaths per 1,000 live births. Although 83 percent of births
were attended by health staff in 1989, 47 percent of infant deaths were still due to
perinatal causes. In 1994, the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) was 38.2 per 100,000
living births but reached 65.3 percent in poor regions.
2.6    The decline of child mortality and fertility will create new demands on the health
care system, such as the aging of the population, and bring to the fore costly non-
communicable diseases such as heart, cancer, and chronic pulmonary diseases. In 1991,
the primary causes of death in Brazil were: diseases of the circulatory system, 29.9
percent; external causes, 18 percent; ill-defined causes, 12.7 percent; and neoplasms
(cancer), 10.7 percent. Diseases of the circulatory system were already the leading cause
of death in all Brazilian regions.' Injuries from homicides and traffic accidents have
growing importance, each of the two causing more years of potential life lost than any
other single cause except malignant neoplasms. The problem is particularly serious among
adolescents, accounting for 55% and 74% of male deaths in the 10-14 and 15-19 age
groups, respectively. In the poor North and Northeast regions, the primary cause of death
were ill-defined since up to 50 percent of them are either not attended, or not properly
classified by a physician.
2.7    While chronic and degenerative diseases are now the leading causes of morbidity
and mortality for the entire population, communicable diseases remain a major risk for
the poor and the young, especially for those living in the North and the Northeast where
infectious and parasitic diseases rank third among the causes of reported deaths. Also,
although mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases has declined in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, the country is still experiencing epidemics of malaria, dengue, kalazar,
5Data on mortality and morbidity have to be interpreted with caution because: first, the proportion of the
deaths attributed to ill-defined conditions ranges from 9.1% in the Southeast to 43% in the
Northeast, and second, data on hospitalizations may be biased by the hospital payment system based
on diagnosis.



4
tuberculosis, and AIDS. Preventable intestinal infections, pneumonia, and nutritional
deficiencies accounted for 16.4, 11.4, and 4.6 percent of deaths, respectively.
2.8    Data on hospitalization  for 1984-1991  indicate that the leading cause of
adniissions was related to obstetric causes, or psychiatric and cardiovascular diseases, the
three accounting for 23 percent of all admissions and 20 percent of hospital costs in 1994.
Obstetric causes represented 10 percent of SUS reimbursements and psychiatric
admissions were the second largest reimbursement category, accounting for 6.4 percent of
all reimbursements.
Organization and Financing of Health Care6 and 7
2.9    Brazil's Unified Health System  (SUS), which is the sole source of publicly
financed care for 110 million Brazilians, is unique in Latin America and more comparable
to the model of Canada and several European countries. In the Constitution and in the
SUS law: (a) it is a single-payer system; (b) coverage is universal; (c) health benefits are
all-inclusive and free at the time of use; (d) financing comes mostly from general taxation
and subsidizes the poor; (e) funds are allocated to states and municipalities on the basis of
negotiated budgets, based on historical series; (f) most care is delivered by private
providers who compete for patients; (g) providers are reimbursed on the basis of
production (diagnosis-related groups); and (h) ownership and administration of public
services is partially decentralized to municipalities and states. Private health insurance
plays a significant complementary role for about 38 million people (26 percent of the
population). A detailed description of the system is provided in Annex K.
2.10   Coverage. Despite the impressive degree to which the SUS coincides with good
organizational and financial models, it has a number of significant shortcomings. Although
coverage is in theory universal, the system leaves large areas and groups uncovered in the
North and in periurban areas, where an estimated 10 million people do not have access to
health care. With 30 hospital beds and 14.2 physicians per 10,000 population, Brazil
compares favorably with the average for Latin America and other middle-income
countries. The country has a relative scarcity of nurses, with a 3.7 doctor/nurse ratio and
the distribution of health services and professionals in the various regions is very unequal,
being concentrated in the most developed regions and in state capitals. In the Northeast,
prenatal care coverage can be as low as 12 percent (e.g., the State of Piaui), and 31
percent of births still take place at home.
2.11   Benerits. The current constitutional mandate to pay for all health services for the
entire population is fiscally unsustainable: the present level of public health expenditures
(in 1994, US$93 per capita and 3 percent of GDP) is insufficient to pay for even a
6 Mendes E.V.: ComentArios sobre Financiamnento e Gastos em Sauide no Brazil, in: Vianna, S.M. et al:
0 Financiamento da Safide no Brazil, (Brasilia: OPAS, Serie Economia e Financiamento No 4,
1994).
7Aiyer, Jamison and Landoflo: Health Policy in Latin America: Progress, Problems and Policy Options.
Cuademos de Economia 32 (1995), pp 11-28.



5
moderately comprehensive health benefit package, even if only for the population which
relies exclusively on the SUS. The cheapest private health insurance and group medicine
systems, which offer limited benefits to relatively healthy populations, charge between
US$156 and US$131 per person covered per year, respectively. Rationing is achieved
through caps on admissions and budget ceilings.
2.12   Financing comes mostly from
Figure 2.3. M oi 's Revenue Sources - 199general taxation and subsidizes the
F I E     CGTO      OHER            poor. The health sector is financed
lId %                                from  Social Security Budget (SSB)
which also finances social assistance,
social security and unemployment
- ,%           benefits. Funds are not earmarked for
these   various   programs.   SSB's
revenues originate from a mix of
social contributions and treasury revenues such as: (a) employee and employer social
security contributions; (b) tax on businesses' output - COFI`NS;8 (c) tax on businesses'
net profits - CSLP; and (d) other smaller sources (Social Integration Program - PIS
and Civil Servants Asset Creation Program - PASEP).
2.13   The private health insurance sector plays a significant complementary role in
financing health services. In 1994, 38 million people were covered by one of the several
schemes provided under private health insurance, which represents a US$6.6 billion
industry. In spite of the magnitude of the sector and its well known market failures, the
private health insurance system is mostly unregulated and practices both adverse selection
and selective disenrollment of high-risk patients; in addition, it is inequitable because
middle- and upper-class beneficiaries continue to use the SUS free-of-charge for costly
tertiary care.
2.14   Allocation of Resources. The allocation of recurrent and capital budgets is often
not transparent and does not promote equity. Public funds for investment in rehabilitation
and equipment were supposed to be transferred automatically to states as a proportion of
their recurrent budgets.  In reality they have been mostly allocated on the basis of
individual agreements between the Minister of Health and State Governors or Municipal
Mayors.
2.15   Delivery of Health Care.  Most care is delivered by private providers who
compete for patients. The provision of public health services is organized under the
Unified Health System (SUS) which integrates the public health network with the private
philanthropic and for-profit networks from which the Government purchases public health
services. These services represent about 70 percent of total health services provided in
8The collection of these contributions has been very inefficient. IPEA estimates that, in 1992, the level of
evasion to the COFINS contribution was around 76 percent. The end of the hyperinflation period led
to a sharp improvement in the collection of COFINS and CSLP contributions, but not in the revenues
from payroll deductions.



6
Brazil. The balance of 30 percent is supplied by the private for-profit network that does
not contract with the Government and serves patients who are privately insured or pay out
of pocket. Patients are free to choose between public and private providers contracted by
the SUS. The private sector plays an important role in the providing services to SUS. In
1994, it accounted for 79 percent of hospital beds in the SUS, 83 percent of publicly
funded hospital admissions, and 87 percent of hospital reimbursements. The private sector
also accounted for 43 percent of publicly-funded ambulatory procedures and 73 percent of
all ambulatory reimbursements.
2.16   The quality of care is not well documented, but is judged to be low. Maternal care
is often used in health services administration as a "tracer" for quality of care. If judged
by maternal and infant mortality and morbidity, quality of care is likely to be very bad.
Although 83 percent of births were officially attended by qualified staff in 1989, maternal
mortality amd perinatal mortality are 45 percent higher than one would expect in a country
with the income and education of Brazil, suggesting very poor obstetric practice.
2.17 Administration of Public Health Services. The Ministry of Health has few
responsibilities in direct health care provision, as ownership and administration of public
services have been decentralized to municipalities and states since 1988. Starting in 1982,
successive administrations have decentralized both responsibilities and resources to
municipalities and, to a lesser degree, to states. At present, about 2,000 of the 5,000
Brazilian municipalities have some degree of autonomy in health care. Decentralization
has mostly benefited municipalities, leaving State Health Secretariats with a relatively
small and ill-defined role, lying between a strong Federal MoH and the municipal health
secretariats, over which they have no hierarchical authority, the latter tending to relate
directly to the Federal level. Municipal Health Secretariats are responsible for planning,
organizing, and managing public health care delivery in their jurisdiction, and can contract
private providers to deliver the care not provided by the public network. When necessary,
they can also form intermunicipal consortia9 to pool resources and better manage patient
flows.  Larger and better-managed municipalities with advanced administrative and
financial autonomy receive block grants which they are free to manage. It is anticipated
that some states will have full autonomy, meaning that in addition to receiving the block
grants, they will be entrusted with the responsibility for general public health functions
such as communicable disease control.
2.18   Provider Reimbursement. Providers are reimbursed on the basis of production
(diagnosis-related groups): SIHs for hospitalizations and SIAs for ambulatory care.
Current reimbursement rates are far out-of-line with the average costs of service, causing
lack of investments and maintenance of facilities, shortages in essential inputs, and leading
to poor quality of care and to fraud. Between 1991 and 1992, the average price of an SIH
9 An intermunicipal consortium is an innovative idea that consists of regrouping several municipalities
to create a critical mass of health care facilities embodying, for example, one tertiary-level university
hospital, 2-3 secondary or regional hospitals, and several health centers and posts. The main advantages
of consortium are that: (i) it achieves economies of scale through the joint purchase of some key inputs;
(ii) it can organize a meaningful reference system; and (iii) it improves the efficiency of the system by
separating the financing (by the consortium) from the delivery of services (by individual facilities that
would sell services to the consortium), and allowing the Federal and State levels to deal with a limited
number of entities (the consortia) rather than a multitude of municipalities or individual facilities.



7
fell from US$306 to US$180. A recent study estimates that reimbursements cover no
more than 40 to 50 percent of real costs (Table 2.1). Furthermore, the deterioration of
prices has been uneven across procedures and diagnosis.  This distortion affects the
reimbursement of essential clinical and public health services, while less cost-effective
tertiary care has been relatively more protected. In addition, it provides a perverse cross-
subsidy  since the upper and the upper middle class use  costly  tertiary  care
disproportionately.
Table 2.1: Rebui*. sement for Scctew. P.tors ith- WUS.
Fede.:i  of Holy I*ouues o f Merey. u inuary 199)6. $Reais
Procedure                   Cost             Reimbursement         RembiCost
General medical visit        10                    2                  21%
Appendectomy                 833                  191                 23%
Normal Delivery             235                   114                 48%
Asthma Crisis                399                 204                  51%
Simple X-Ray                  7                    4                  57%
Treat. Prematunty            385                 322                  84%
2.19   The deterioration of prices has led hospitals and other providers to postpone
investments in rehabilitation and equipment, cut maintenance, close entire units, or go out
of business altogether, leaving the poor without recourse. In addition, many investment
projects were left unfinished, which if not completed will deteriorate and their sunken
costs lost. It has also led to widespread fraud by requesting illegal co-payments from
patients, tinkering fraudulently with patient diagnosis to maximize reimbursement,
requesting more than one reimbursement for each admission and falsifying admissions.
2.20   Regulation.  Although the Ministry of Health is responsible for policy and
standards, it has been unable to adequately regulate the system, namely to ensure the
quality of services it purchases, and to control fraud. Though the Government has a good
information system to detect fraud, it has been unable to enforce the law, due to the
possiblity of massive closings and service disruption. Conversely, the MoH still executes
too many vertical programs which might be more appropriately managed at state and
municipal levels, including. (a) the National Health Foundation -- FUNASA (sanitation
and communicable disease control); (b) the Central Pharmaceutical Agency -- CEME
(procurement, production and control of pharmaceuticals) and (c) the National Institute of
Food and Nutrition -- INAM.
Health Care Expenditures
2.21   Public Health  Expenditures were about US$19.1 billion in 1990, which
represented US$95.6 per capita and 2.76 percent of the country's GDP. Such a level of
expenditure is much smaller than the amount spent by other upper middle-income
countries in the region.  Total health expenditures in Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica,
Mexico, Uruguay and Venezuela represent from 1.96 percent to 7.5 percent of GDP. Only
Venezuela allocates a smaller proportion of its GDP to public health expenditures than
Brazil. In part because of the low public health expenditure, Brazil ranks last among the
cited countries for life expectancy, infant mortality, maternal mortality, immunization, and
prenatal care coverage.



8
2.22   Public health budgets have been volatile. In 1989, the per capita public health
expenditure was about US$96 but it fell to a low of US$63 in 1992 when the federal
government's expenditures with social security benefits almost exhausted the funds which
had been allocated to health. The revenue drop made the system's management extremely
difficult. The 1992-1993 Social Security crisis led to the deactivation of many beds and to
a significant reduction in hospital and ambulatory care. In 1995, Federal public health
expenditures reached US$15 billion, the equivalent of US$103 per capita.
2.23  In    1994,   total   health
Figure 2.5.: Brazil: Health Expenditures  expenditures  were  about US$21.1
(US$ Billions) - 1994           billion, corresponding to a US$136 per
capita and a 4.4 percent of the
UP$6. (31.28t                 Brazilian's GDP.  The distribution of
softB-        the health expenditures between public
and private entities was divided as
follows: federal expenditures US$10.4
U(84.11(1.43%)                              billion, US$67 per capita; states and
Federal     municipalities US$4.1 billion, US$26
per capita; and private expenditures
US$6.6 billion, US$43 per capita. The
latter represented 30 percent of total
expenditures, a high share even when
compared with that of OECD's countries, in spite the fact that it only accounts for
expenditures with private health insurance, pre-paid, medical cooperatives, and company-
based health systems. It did not include the out-of-pocket expenditures with private
medical consultation, tests, pharmaceuticals or admissions. In 1989, such out-of-pocket
expenditures were estimated at US$2.9 billion. If they had been kept at the same level,
total health expenditures in 1994 would be estimated at US$23.2 billion, the equivalent of
4.9 percent of GDP.
2.24   State and Municipal Health Expenditures. States' net health care expenditures
as a proportion of GDP have declined substantially during the 1980s and beginning of the
1990s, dropping 15 percent between 1980 and 1990. During the same period and for the
same indicator, municipalities almost doubled their share, from 0.19 to 0.34 percent of the
GDP. From 1985 to 1990, the proportion of health sector funds directly managed by
states increased by 43 percent, while those managed directly by municipalities rose by 60
percent. At the beginning of the 1990s, municipal health expenditures were almost equal
to those of the states. The increased role of municipalities and the declining state
responsibilities were caused bv the new Brazilian Constitution which redistributed a
greater share of tax revenues o ,iunicipalities, and by the Collor administration's policy of
favoring municipalities over states in the allocation of funds.



9
1996 Federal Health Sector Budget Proposal
2.25  For 1996, the Ministry of Health has proposed a total budget of US$23 billion, a
62 percent increase over the 1995 budget allocation.  A total of 44 percent of the
requested increase would be spent in raising reimbursement rates of hospital and
ambulatory services and another 33 percent would be used to strengthen sanitation and
communicable disease control by the National Health Foundation.
Figure 2.6.: Ministry of Health Allocation  2.26  The proposed 1996 budget would
of Budget Increase - 1996     allocate US$12.5 billion (55 percent) to the
Others         National Health Fund, of which US$9
FUNASA                            billion (79 percent) would be used to
33 13  _      ^ lreimburse public and private providers for
hospital and ambulatory care provided
_AIHIRCA   under  the  Unified  Health  System.
Personnel                4362%      Personnel and debt service constitute the
16 53%                             second largest budget category, accounting
for 21 percent of the total budget.
Personnel would take up 17 percent of the
proposed budget. The remaining budget
(24 percent) would be used to finance
federal health agencies: (a) 17 percent for the National Health Foundation (sanitation and
communicable disease control), (b) 5.4 percent for the Central Pharmaceutical Agency
(the centralized drug procurement agency); (c) 0.9 percent for the Oswaldo Cruz
Foundation (post-graduate education, research and development and vaccine production);
and (d) 0.16 percent for the National Institute of Food and Nutrition (nutrition
surveillance and food distribution among the poor).
2.27  The largest relative increase in the proposed 1996 MoH Budget would go to the
National Health Foundation (276 percent), mostly due to a twenty fold increase in the
funds allocated to basic sanitation. The MoH also proposed other increases as follows: (a)
177 percent for the Milk Program; (b) 169 percent for the Social Pioneers Hospital (the
Federal District Hospital); (c) 242 percent for Community Campaigns; (d) 217 percent for
the Rehabilitation and Re-equipment of the SUS network (including those under the
proposed project); (e) 193 percent for Control of Endemic Diseases (including a new
malaria control program); (f) 256 percent for other National Health Foundation programs;
and (g) 110 percent for other National Food and Nutrition programs. Except for the
direct funding of the Social Pioneers Hospital, all these proposed budget increases show
the Government commitment to increasing its role in health promotion and disease
prevention, which are traditional public goods.
2.28  The proposed budget increases for the National Health Foundation (FUNASA)
is questionable. The original weight of the National Health Foundation in the 1995 MoH
budget and the massive increase in resources for 1996 does not seem justified because (a)
most of communicable disease control activities could be carried out more efficiently by



10
states and municipalities and (b) most of the increase will go to finance rural water and
sanitation projects, which would be better provided and managed at local level, by private
or municipal utility companies.
2.29  It is equally difficult to justify a federal agency such as Central Pharmaceutical
Agency -- CEME, and the large increase in the appropriation of funds for the centralized
purchase of drugs is also problematic because: (a) distribution of free drugs to everyone
in public health services is not a clear-cut public responsibility; in fact, the best example of
cost recovery in low- and middle-income countries has been on drugs; and (b) the
Brazilian drug central procurement agency (CEME) has a bad reputation in terms of
efficiency and capacity to control fraud.
2.30  Finally, the size of the MoH payroll needs to be studied. Although the proportion
of the MoH payroll (18 percent of the 1996 budget ) is small when compared with that of
other countries (it is normally around 60 percent), and in spite the fact that the proportion
in 1996 would be smaller than in 1995 (19 percent), it is hard to accept a 53 percent
increase from one year to another, when almost all health services are provided either by
the private sector or by municipal or state hospitals and ambulatory services. Such an
increase would be at odds with the stated policy of making the MoH a small agency, with
mostly normative, regulatory, and monitoring functions.
2.31   The role and size of FUNASA and CEME, and the size of payroll issues would not
be addressed directly by the project, for the sake of simplicity and implementability, but
would be pursued through broad parallel track policy dialogue. At appraisal the Bank
agreed with the Government on the general terms of reference for the relevant studies to
that effect. In addition the Government presented to the Bank a draft concept paper for a
project to decentralize communicable disease control, which would address the role and
size of FlUNASA under a decentralized SUS.
2.32   The increased allocation for the Milk Program can also be questioned on the basis
of studies which have shown that it has been often ill-targeted, inefficient and abused. The
project would not address the problem because: (a) it represents a relatively small part of
the budget; (b) it is somewhat peripheral to the focus of the project; and (c) it is in large
part outside the realm of the MoH (i.e. it is part of the Comunidade Solidaria Program,
coordinated at the Presidential level).
2.33   The 1996 MoH budget shows reduced allocations in some items, including: (a)
amortization of debt service (57 percent), (b) vaccine production (29 percent); and (c)
counterpart funds for projects closing in 1996 (i.e. Bank supported NE Basic Health I, NE
Endemic Disease Control and Amazon Basin Malaria Control projects). The reduced
contribution to vaccine production may represent a new policy towards an increased
reliance on private-sector production and on purchases in competitive intemational
markets.



I 
3. HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT
POLICY
Major Health Sector Issues10 11
3.1   Despite the impressive degree to which the Brazilian health care systems coincides
with good organizational and financial models, it has a number of significant failings
described below. Some of these failings can be addressed in the short-term within the
current institutional arrangements, while others are structural and can only be fixed in the
medium term.
3.2    Short-term  Problems. The main short-term  problem is that reimbursement of
private providers is far out of line with the average cost of services, and the Government
has often significant arrears. On average reimbursement schedules only cover 40 to 50
percent of costs and the Government often pays providers with delays of three to six
months. Due to underfinancing, philanthropic hospitals, which are the backbone of the
SUS, have been closing entire units, going out of business or canceling their public service
contracts, while public hospitals are left decaying, without essential inputs and, leaving the
poor without recourse to proper health care. During the past six years, lack of funds for
investments has been endemic. As a result, many investment projects have remained
unfinished and maintenance of capital has been neglected. These projects, if not
completed, will deteriorate and their sunken costs will be lost. In addition, the present
reimbursement schedule overcompensates some non-cost-effective tertiary interventions
used by the rich, while it leaves more cost-effective essential public health and clinical
interventions seriously undercompensated.
3.3    Structural Problems. There are five structural problems in the SUS. First and
most important, the current constitutional mandate to pay for all health services for the
entire population is not fiscally sustainable. The present level of public health expenditures
(in 1994, US$93 per capita and 3 percent of GDP) is insufficient to pay for even a
moderately comprehensive health benefit package, such as can be found in other middle-
0 The World Bank: The Organization, delivery and financing of health care in Brazil: Agenda for the
90s ( Washington, DC: The World Bank Report No 12655-BR, 1994).
The World Bank: Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil (Washington: The World Bank, Report No
No 14569 BR, 1995).



12
income countries, for the whole population or even for the 76 percent of the population
which rely exclusively on the SUS. Given the costs of the more modest private health
insurance benefit package, it would cost an estimated US$15 to 20 billion to offer such a
moderate benefit package to the 110 million people who depend on the public system for
health care.
3.4    Rationing is achieved by ceilings on services and budgets. The rich have been more
successful in breaking waiting lists and in harnessing the system's scarce resources, and
spite of tight budgets and restrictions to access, middle- and upper-class private insurance
beneficiaries continue to use the SUS free-of-charge for costly tertiary care.
Box H: Failings of the Health Care:System (SUS) Today            :.
Financing     Public fmiancing is low to. provide the typical middle income contry health benefit
package; financing is very unstable, varying by as much as 50 percent over very short
periods.
Public health services do not recover any costs; there:areM noco-payments, deductibles,
moderation. fees, or any charges for comfort services.
Individuals and enterpn'ses are allowed to deduct insurance costs from income for tax
purposes; employer provided insurance is not:treated as income and is not taxed.:
Public facilities ireat privately insured patients and do. not recover the costs.from the
respective insurers.
Prices paid to providers are too low to cover costs, maintenance, depreciation and'
innovation.
Prices are distorted and do not provide incentives to allocative efficiencyr, there are even
perverse incentives to produce services of low cost-effectiveness:.::
There is no coherent investment.policy, particularlytin iequent.
Federal transfers to: states aid municipalities do not take into consideration
epidemiological.profiles orAdifferencesjin income.
Competition   Public providers are at an :advantage because, in: addition toa receiving: payment: for
services provided, they receive exta budgets for salaries and other inputs.
Although, patients are free to choose among public and private providers, they do not
have access to any information on :quality twhich would.allow them to make a betterl
informed:choice.
Regulation    Private insurers are not regulated and use adverse selection.
Quality of care provided by the private: sector islnot monitored or controlled, evenwhenl l
it is paid by SUS.
Auditing and governance control for both private: and public providers is ineffective.
Autonomy:  Public health'services lack autonomy and are directly maged by municipal4and':state.l
governments.     :
Management  Public health services are short in   professional: adinimstration :and. adequate..
management systems, and lack incentives for iinternal efficiency.
Private hospitals under contract are also often poorly managed. ......
3.5    Second, chronic under-financing has led to deterioration of facilities, shortages in
essential inputs, and poor remuneration of professionals, leading to inefficiency, poor
quality of care, a demoralized work force and fraud. Since 1987, capital investments in
the health sector dropped by 37 percent. The quality and efficiency of health care delivery
is low, and results largely from the deteriorated condition of facilities, including buildings
and electromechanical equipment, medical equipment and support services. Hospitals are
generally more deteriorated than health centers and posts. A large part of their basic



13
equipment is in disrepair, including key equipment, such as: X-ray machines, anesthesia
carts, operating-room lighting, boilers, laundry, and kitchen appliances. Many hospitals
also suffer from deterioration of their physical plant, including plumbing, cooling, sanitary
systems, and air conditioning. These bottlenecks in turn produce reductions in productivity
(i.e., excessive lengths of stay and increased costs), and in the quality of care, and pose
safety hazards to both staff and patients (i.e. radiation leaks, hospital infections, etc.).
3.6   The Federal Government has been until recently unable to adequately regulate the
system, namely to ensure the quality of services it purchases, and to contro] fraud.
Despite the major role of the private sector in both health care delivery and financing,
regulation often does not exist or is poorly enforced. The quality of care is inadequate as
it can be judged by the hospital fatality rate, which has been increasing since 1991 to reach
the highest rate in ten years: 2.4 percent. In the area of fraud control, the record is equally
poor: the Government estimates that fraud is present in over 10 percent of all hospital
reimbursements, but other sources estimate that fraud may be present in as many as 40
percent of all reimbursements. Given the inadequate reimbursement rates and the need to
keep health care providers in business, the Government has had difficulty in controlling
fraud.
3.7   In addition and with few  exceptions, public sector and many philanthropic
hospitals are poorly managed, with: (a) inadequacy of inputs (i.e., human resources are
heavily physician-biased); (b) above-average market prices for equipment expenditures; (c)
widespread absenteeism reflected in low staff productivity; (d) low levels of hospital
management autonomy, (e) accountability problems (managers are commonly appointed
on the basis of political criteria); and (f) underdeveloped quality assurance programs.
3.8   Third, the system fails to cover the poor who have moved to new settlements in
the North and to peri-urban areas. Driven by market forces, health care providers tend to
concentrate their activities in the South and Southeast regions. Although this situation
improved in 1980s when the number of hospital beds and ambulatory services grew at a
faster rate in the North and Northeast than in the South and Southeast regions, the
population of the latter regions still use nearly twice as many ambulatory services (4
consultation per person per year) as do their compatriots who live in poorer Northeast and
North states (2-3 consultations per person per year). An estimated 10 million people,
formally covered by the SUS, currently do not have real access to health care because they
live in more remote areas. In addition, migration to large cities has created large peri-
urban settlements (e.g. Baixada Fluminense, in the outskirts of Rio) where the social
infrastructure is weak or nonexistent. The problem is worsened by the fact that recent
fiscal tightness and low reimbursement rates have led to a reduction in the number of the
publicly financed beds from 4.3 per thousand inhabitants in 1982 to 3.7 in 1992.
3.9   Fourth, reimbursement of providers constitutes only 40 percent of the MoH
budget, a very low proportion, if one considers that the Ministry has few health care
provision responsibilities. Federal agencies such as the National Health Foundation and



14
the Central Pharmaceutical Agency, which could be for the most part decentralized, still
consume 25 percent of the federal health budget resources. While the Constitution has
passed down significant responsibilities to small and unprepared municipalities, it has not
defined exactly the role of states, creating overlapping in the area of planning, and leaving
serious doubts on how the system would be financed and controlled.
3.10  Finally, medical unit costs have been expanding exponentially, at twice the rate of
the consumer price index, due to uncontrolled introduction of new technologies and
pharmaceuticals, often of doubtful cost-effectiveness. Between 1980 and 1993, the annual
health inflation index was on average 423%. From 1990 to 1994, the consumer price
index and the health inflation index increased twice and three times more than the adjusted
reimbursement rates, respectively.
3.11   All these failings can be corrected under the current institutional arrangements.
The Government is planning a 10-year health sector reform program, of which the present
project would be the first of a series of two or three consecutive projects, to repair the
described shortcomings while improving the desirable features. The project will deal with
a few of these problems, while others will be pursued through ongoing broad policy
dialogue, technical assistance and possibly through other complementary loans and
projects.
Government Health Sector Policy
3.12   The proposed REFORSUS project is the main vehicle for the Government's health
policy. The project would reinforce many of the positive features of the Brazilian Unified
Health System and eliminate some of its present shortcomings. This is the first time that
the Government of Brazil has requested Bank assistance for a policy-based sectoral
operation. It is the product of several years of dialogue, health policy and economic and
sector work (Annex L). As soon as the present Government took office in January 1995,
the Minister of Health sought Bank assistance to respond to a health care crisis:
reimbursement of health care providers was so out-of-line with the average cost of
services that philanthropic hospitals, which are the backbone of the public health system,
were closing entire units, going out of business or canceling their public service contracts
and public hospitals, which essentially serve the poor, were left to decay, without essential
inputs.
3.13   The ensuing dialogue led the Government to prepare the proposed project and to
take emergency health policy initiatives. In its first year in office, the Government has (a)
increased the provider reimbursement rates by 25 percent to keep philanthropic providers
from leaving the public system and meet the operating costs of public providers; (b)
created and operated a National Chamber of Health Care Price Negotiations to ensure
adequate compensation of health care providers; (c) prepared, with Bank assistance, a
limited list of most cost-effective interventions which will be fully reimbursed starting in
1996, to match the systems benefits with resource constraints; (d) introduced legislation



15
which will allow cost recovery of care provided to privately- insured patients under the
SUS; (e) proposed a budget for 1996 which will allow raising reimbursement rates to a
level high enough to cover full costs of the most cost-effective interventions (described in
the so called Priority I list -- para 4.9 and Annex N), protecting the system from further
deterioration; (f) upgraded its management information system and instituted a National
Audit System, which has resulted in a 10 percent reduction of fraudulent claim; (g) started
using global health budgets (i.e. overall ceilings) for states and municipalities to improve
control over expenditures; and (h) provided advanced administrative autonomy to 4 states
and 83 municipalities, allowing them to receive block grants and to directly manage the
financing of the sector.  In addition,  the Government has submitted legislation to
Congress which will further increase decentralization to states and municipalities. These
critical reform initiatives, discussed with the Government during project identification and
preparation, have started to be implemented much faster that anticipated.
3.14 In the medium term, these measures need to be strengthened and complemented.
The Government is planning a I 0-year health sector reform program, of which the present
project would be the first of a series of two or three consecutive projects, to address the
described shortcomings and improve, when feasible, the overall features of the system. At
negotiations, the Government will present a Letter of Health Policy which describes
reforms undertaken to date and a vision of where the Government would like the Unified
Health System to be in 1998 (Annex J). The project would finance the necessary
technical assistance and management information system to that effect. In addition, a
parallel track of broad policy dialogue will be continued with the Government on
important issues which would not be tackled by the project, for the sake of simplicity and
implementability.
3.15  If the SUS reform program is implemented, by the year 2000: (a) coverage would
continue to be universal, but; (b) the scope of health benefits financed under the SUS
would be compatible with health sector revenues, and would favor more cost-effective
interventions at the expense of less cost-effective interventions; (c) financing would
continue to come mostly from taxation and subsidize the poor, but states and
municipalities would take more responsibility, private insurers would be called to pay for
services provided to their beneficiaries under the SUS; (d) the allocation of capital and
recurrent health care budgets to states and municipalities would be mostly automatic and
based on transparent and equity generating formulas, which would include income, health
and supply indicators; (e) private providers would continue to be the backbone of public
health care provision, but would be more accountable for the quality of services provided;
(f) public hospitals and ambulatory services would be given administrative and financial
autonomy; (g) reimbursements would be enough to maintain capital, and be used as
incentives to promote cost-effective interventions and discourage use of public resources
for less cost-effective ones; and (h) the Ministry of Health would keep the core of policy
setting, regulation and financing, while shedding non-essential functions. If these policy
reforms were implemented, the SUS would evolve toward more efficient, equitable and
higher-quality medical care. To reach these objectives requires reform in three distinct
areas: prices for services, management capacity, and investment.



16
3.16  MoH policy is coordinated with that of the Ministries of Planning and Finance
through an ad hoc committee created in 1994. The Committee has met regularly and, in
July 1994, produced a report with a series of recommendations most of which are part of
the present Government's agenda and would be incorporated in the Project. The Ministry
is also coordinating with the Ministry of the Federal Administration and Reform of the
State -- MARE, regarding the administrative reform and how it could contribute to a more
autonomous and efficient administration of public hospitals.
4. PROJECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSITION
Project Objectives
4.1   The project's main objectives are to: (a) improve the delivery of care under the
SUS, which is the sole source of publicly subsidized care for the poor, and (b) assist the
Government in introducing policy reforms which would improve the financial sustainability
and efficiency of the SUS.
4.2   To improve the delivery of care, the project would set an investment fund to
support rehabilitation, equipment, and management systems for SUS hospitals and
ambulatory network. The project would improve the technical and management
infrastructure in I 1 percent of the network.
4.3   To improve the financial sustainability and efficiency of the SUS, the project would
strengthen the capacity of the MoH, the states, and municipalities in their role of health
care purchasers, and assist the Government in preparing and implementing the necessary
health sector finance reforms to: (a) ensure adequate compensation for health care
providers, by establishing reimbursements rates which would be enough to maintain and
replace capital; (b) protect the system from further deterioration of assets, by deciding on
priority investments and necessary reimbursement levels on the basis of annual reviews of
budget resources available for the SUS; (c) reduce revenue constraints by establishing cost
recovery, and selecting a number of more cost-effective interventions to be financed under
the SUS; (d) reduce fraud, by establishing systematic audit and improving the
reimbursement management information system; and (e) control federal expenditures by
adopting global health budget transfers to states and municipalities.



17
Components and Activities
4.4    The project would finance the following two components.
4.5    Component I -  Investment Fund for the rehabilitation, equipment and
improved management of the Unified Health System (SUS) in order to improve its health
care delivery (US$ 690 million equivalent, 92 percent of total project costs). The project
would finance rehabilitation, equipment and management subprojects, to conclude
unfinished projects, to arrest the deterioration of the infrastructure and to recover the
technological deficit caused by years of underfinancing, poor management and lack of
maintenance.
4.6   Investments would give priority to subprojects supporting the provision of more
cost-effective interventions. The project would not finance new construction except in
new settlements where there are no facilities, either public or private or when it is matched
by a parallel reduction of capacity at other sites. Equipment purchases would be justified
on the basis of. (i) restoring the system's capacity; (ii) putting idle complementary
resources back into use; or (iii) reducing the cost of an intervention already being
provided. It is estimated that 55 percent of project resources would be used in the
rehabilitation of ambulatory care facilities and 45 percent in restoring the capacity of
hospitals.
4.7    The funding of rehabilitation and equipment subprojects would be subject to the
establishment of performance contracts and the satisfactory implementation of
management development: (a) cost accounting, (b) billing, and cost recovery for care
provided to privately insured patients under the SUS, (c) standards for maternal care and
control of hospital infections, and (d) safe handling of hazardous wastes and materials.
Funds would be released in two phases: first, up to 40 percent of the total costs would be
made available upon contract signing; second, the remaining funds would be available
depending on the satisfactory implementation of the described package of management
and maintenance reforms.
4.8   The project would finance subprojects proposed on a competitive basis by public
and philanthropic health care providers, including states, intermunicipal consortia and
municipalities. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would receive a series of competitive
proposals by region and type of subproject. Funds unused by a region would be
reallocated to another region. This would put regions in competition for funds and would
stimulate efficiency in implementation. State Health Secretariats, municipalities, inter-
municipal consortia, and philanthropic health care providers would prepare and present
subproject proposals. To ensure that more developed regions do not take up all available
funds, the Borrower agreed to an estimate of funds required by region on the basis
population and relative need (Annex 0). States and municipalities with poor capacity
presenting fewer subprojects than what would be expected from their social and health
indicators, would receive technical assistance to prepare subprojects.



18
4.9    Component II -  Institutional Development to improve health care financing
and management (US$60 million equivalent).  The project would finance technical
assistance, including consulting services, and epidemiological, economic, managerial,
legal and other studies, necessary to reform health care financing and ensure the financial
sustainability of the system. It would also support consensus-building and dissemination of
activities such as publications, workshops and seminars, study visits, and training. This
component would support the establishment of
(a)   an adequate framework for pricing and reimbursing health care providers,
including a system to monitor the costs of health care on a continuous basis, and the
operation of a permanent Chamber of Health Care Prices for regularly negotiating the
prices charged for health care;
(b)   a list of priority health benefits to be financed by the SUS. The project
would finance burden of disease and cost-effectiveness studies to support the definition or
the list of priority health benefits;
(c)   linked to the above, a differentiated reimbursement schedule favoring more
cost-effective interventions;
(d)   introduction of cost recovery for care provided to privately-insured
patients under the SUS; and
(e)    better management of the quality of services and fraud control, including
the decentralization of the National Audit System to state and municipal levels; issuing
bills in public and private hospitals financed under the project, to improve user information
and control over what is being charged to the SUS; upgrading of the management
information system for reimbursements; and the establishment and diffusion of quality of
care standards for maternal care, hospital infection control, and safe collection and
disposal of hazardous medical wastes and materials.
4.10  The present list of publicly funded public health and clinical interventions would be
divided into three parts according the magnitude and social value of the health problem
which they address, and their cost effectiveness. Priority 1 interventions include a set of
highly cost-effective interventions which address important sources of the burden of
disease, accounting for about 30 percent of output (Annex N); Priority 2 interventions
would include a group of moderately cost-effective interventions, accounting for 40 to 50
percent of output; and Priority 3 interventions would account for the remainder.
Reimbursement of interventions would be differentiated between the three groups: (a)
reimbursement of Priority I interventions would cover full operational, maintenance and
capital costs; reimbursement of Priority 2 interventions would cover 75 to 85 percent of
costs, depending on the availability of resources, and Priority 3 interventions would be
reimbursed at 50 percent of costs. The system would would make benefits match public
resources available for the system by shifting interventions between Priority 1 and 2, and
between Priority 2 and 3, as well as by adjusting the reimbursement rates for Priority 2 and



19
3 interventions. In addition, the proposed system would improve the efficiency of public
health resource allocation, by increasing the proportion of public funds which are used in
more cost-effective interventions.
4.11   The loan would be linked to the reform program through: (a) the Government
adopting reform initiatives before negotiations (Annex I); (b) the Bank conditioning
commitments for new subprojects to the adoption by the MoH of reforms no later that
November 30, 1997 and November 30, 1998 (Annex I); and (c) yearly agreements on the
financial requirements of SUS and on the satisfactory execution of the previous year's
SUS budget.
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.1   Total project cost is estimated at US$750 million equivalent, net of taxes and
duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$250 million equivalent (33 percent).
Funds would be committed over three years and disbursed over four years. Of the total
financing of US$750 million equivalent, the Bank would finance US$300 million
equivalent (46 percent of foreign exchange costs and 37 percent of local costs), the IDB
would finance US$350 million equivalent, and the beneficiaries would finance US$100
million equivalent. A breakdown of the project's costs is shown in Annex A and is
summarized below.
Table S.1: BRAZIL: Health Sector Reforn Project- REFORSUS
Project Costs and Financing Plan
(USS million)
*ttm Wed    . 't    ....                   -o 1-"
Investment Fund
Rehabilitation Subprojects                      170      120      290
Equipment Subprojects                           195       75      270
Management & Maintenance Subprojects            65        25       90
Institutional Development                        40        10       50
Base Cost                                        470      230      700
Contingencies                                    30       20        50
5.2   Price contigencies are estimated at US$50 million equivalent.  No physical
contingencies are provided, since the project is demand driven, if unit costs are higher than
expected, the volume of subprojects approved would be reduced.



20
5.3   The cost estimates and average size of each subproject reflect a consensus of
sector specialists and the experience accumulated by the Government during its survey of
state and municipal health sector rehabilitation needs. The project is expected to finance
about 1,500 sub-projects over five years in 26 states, i.e. 300 sub-projects per year. This
value is realistic when compared with the capacity of the MoH, the state health
secretariats and the Banco do Brasil. The miscellaneous administrative costs, consulting
services (including supervision, audits and ex post evaluations) and maintenance of
equipment purchased with the proceeds of the Loan, are based on the average cost of
technical assistance provided by UN agencies and on prevailing market costs of
consultants and training services in Brazil.
Financing Plan
5.4   The proposed Bank loan of US$300 million equivalent would represent 40 percent
of total project costs. Local beneficiaries, including municipal and state public health
agencies, philanthropic health care providers and community-based organizations, would
contribute US$100 million (15 percent of total project costs).
Table 5.2: BRAZIL: Health Sector Reform Project - REFORSUS
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Beneficianies                                   100       --      100 l
IBRD                                            185      115      300
IDs                                             215      135      350 l
Total                                           500      250:     7S0  j
5.5   The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would finance the project in parallel
with the Bank, with a loan of US$350 million equivalent, which would represent another
47 percent of total project cost. The Government would propose subprojects to be
financed by each institution, but would ensure that disbursements occur in parallel, so that
at any point in time the proportion of funds disbursed by each co-financier would not vary
by more than 10 percent. Joint project identification, preparation, and supervision would
ensure efficient inter-lender coordination.



21
6. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS,
IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management and Coordination
6.1   The  project would be coordinated by MoH, which would establish a PCU,
including three regional offices. MoH would enter into an agreement with the National
Bank for Economic and Social Development -- BNDES, and also with the Banco do
Brasil -- BB, which would manage all contracts and financial transactions with the
beneficiaries and the Bank. BNDES would manage contracts valued at US$3 million or
more, and BB would manage contracts valued at less than US$3 million.
6.2   The PCU would: (a) ensure the project's management, including maintaining
project records and preparing regular implementation reports; (b) maintain a data base of
standard unit costs for civil works, equipment, and consultants; (c) contract financial and
procurement audits and ex post evaluation; (d) appraise large projects -- i.e. estimated to
cost more than US$750,000 for works and US$350,000 for goods; (e) supervise regional
offices (which would: inform potential beneficiaries of project eligibility and evaluation
criteria; provide or contract technical assistance for subproject preparation; prepare
subproject appraisal reports; monitor or contract the supervision of subproject
implementation; as well as maintain adequate records on the respective subprojects); and
(f) execute the Institutional Development component.
6.3   States, municipalities and philanthropic providers would present subprojects to the
existing State Bipartite Management Committees, which are chaired by State Secretaries
of Health and include representatives of the Municipal Health Secretaries. About 70
percent of subprojects would be approved by the states, based on eligibility and evaluation
criteria acceptable to the Bank and set out in the Operational Manual (para. 6.1 1). Large
subprojects would be approved by the existing National Tripartite Management
Committee chaired by the Minister of Health and including representatives of the State
and Municipal Health Secretaries. In the case of states with advanced autonomy, the State
Bipartite Committee would approve all subprojects, including the large projects. The Bank
would review proposals with civil works estimated to cost more than US$3 million
equivalent, and those which include equipment estimated to cost more than US$350,000
or technical assistance in excess of US$100,000. The PCU would respond directly to the
Minister of Health, and would provide technical assistance to the States and to the
Tripartite Committee for the evaluation of subprojects. The PCU will have a federal office
and six regional units. BNDES and BB would act as the financial agents of the project.



22
6.4   Eligibility and evaluation criteria include: (a) type of sponsor (e.g., municipality,
state, non-profit organization); (b) type of facility (e.g., maternity, general hospital,
ambulatory care center, etc.); (c) type of investment (e.g., works, equipment, management
development, etc.); (d) consistency with the respective state or municipal health sector
priorities and development plans; (e) maximum and minimum subproject size; (f) impact
on recurrent costs; (g) expected benefits; (h) management arrangements; (i) schedule of
activities; () risks and mitigation actions; (k) environmental plan; and (1) monitoring and
evaluation. Criteria for selecting the first two subproject selection rounds would be
simplified.
6.5   Priority would be given to subprojects which would help provide more cost-
effective clinical interventions and public health services, including maternal and infant
care, trauma and emergency care, family health, blood banks, public health laboratories,
unfinished health facilities, and management development. As provided in the Operational
Manual, until an adequate system is set in place for managing the introduction and
diffusion of high medical technology in the SUS, the following equipment would not be
financed by the project: magnetic resonance, positron emission tomography. lithotripsy,
nuclear medicine devices, extracorporal circulation devices, linear accelerators and cobalt
radiation devices, and neonatal intensive care units.
6.6   All municipalities would be eligible for receiving technical assistance.  Only
municipalities with at least minimal autonomy (i.e., for ambulatory care management)
would have access to rehabilitation and equipment funds. States and municipalities with
advanced autonomy (i.e. receiving health sector block grants) would be given an
investment budget ceiling and would approve all subprojects at state level.
6.7   BNDES and BB would be responsible for carrying out all financial transactions
with the beneficiaries and the Bank.  They would directly contract and supervise
subproject implementation. After a subproject is approved, BNDES or BB would sign an
execution contract with the subproject sponsor and ensure adequate financial
management. According to the contract, BNDES or BB would advance funds to cover
subproject start-up and to finance subproject preparation costs retroactively (i.e., up to 10
percent of total sub-project costs). Subsequent payments would be made on the basis of
(a) statement of expenditures, (b) satisfactory implementation of core management
systems and two optional management systems, and (c) project supervision reports. The
PCU would provide or contract technical assistance to help the beneficiaries organize
national competitive bidding and would be responsible for international competitive
bidding.
6.8   The PCU would contract independent firms to regularly carry out: (a) financial
and procurement audits of a sample of subprojects, and (b) ex-post economic and
beneficiary evaluation of a sample of subprojects, under terms of reference to be agreed
with the Bank. Draft terms of reference are presented in Annex G.
6.9   The proceeds of the loan would be passed on to beneficiaries as grants, linked to
management contracts and output indicators. For example, a municipality receiving a



23
grant to improve a maternity would sign a management agreement by which it would
commit to raise the rate of assisted deliveries by a certain percentage.
6.10  Local beneficiaries would contribute an average of 15 percent of total subproject
costs. For subprojects estimated to cost less than US$1 million equivalent, beneficiaries
will have to contribute with at least 10 percent of total project costs. For projects costing
US$1 million equivalent, but less than US$5 million, beneficiaries would contribute at
least 15 percent of total project costs.  Finally, for projects costing US$5 million
equivalent or more, beneficiaries would contribute at least 20 percent of total project
costs.
6.11   At appraisal, the Government presented an Operational Manual acceptable to the
Bank, including the criteria and procedures for subproject identification, preparation and
appraisal, cofinancing and implementation arrangements, and project performance
indicators.  In addition, it presented project implementation and procurement plans
covering the first year of project implementation, acceptable to the Bank. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Borrower would. (a) maintain a Project Director and
Line Managers with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; and (b) seek
approval from the Bank before making any significant change in the Operational Manual.
First Year Project Implementation Plan
6.12  The first year implementation plan consists of a plan of activities related to a series
of call for proposals, because the project will operate as an investment fund and will
finance subprojects proposed by states, municipalities and philanthropic providers on a
competitive basis. The main areas would be: (a) blood bank network; (b) public health
laboratories; (c) conclusion of unfinished state hospitals and ambulatory facilities; (d)
rehabilitation and equipment of the philanthropical hospitals and ambulatory facilities; and
(e) rehabilitation and equipment of municipal hospitals and ambulatory facilities. The plan
is described in detail in Annex F. Specific subproject plans will only be available after
Bipartite and Tripartite Management Committees approve them. The terms of reference
of major specific studies to be carried out under the Institutional Development component
have been agreed at appraisal and are described in detail in Annex G.
Procurement Arrangements
6.13  Procurement of works, goods and services, as well as the contracting of
consultants with Bank funds, would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995) and the Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants (August 1981). To facilitate administrative procedures, IDB and other
co-financiers have accepted procurement procedures and documents proposed by the
Bank, thereby simplifying for the Government its procurement duties and responsibilities.
6.14  Most procurement would be carried out by states or municipalities, community
organizations, and non-profit providers following Bank's procedures. For contracts to be



24
awarded following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, Standard Bidding
Documents agreed between the Bank and the International Affairs Secretariat of the
Ministry of Planning and Budget (SEAIN) would be used. As a condition of negotiations,
the project would present sample bidding documents for NCB for procurement of goods
and civil works acceptable to the Bank.
6.15  The PCU will include a full-time procurement officer whose main responsibilities
will be to: (a) submit to the Bank all procurement documents which, according to the
provision of the loan agreement, require Bank's prior review, once him/herself have
performed the first stage review; (b) carry out procurement at the central (PCU) level; (c)
coordinate and monitor procurement carried out by each executing unit; and (d) prepare
and submit to the Bank at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed procurement
schedule.  The appointment of the procurement officer would be done in consultation
with the Bank. At project launch, a procurement workshop will be delivered by the Bank
to present and explain procurement guidelines, to commence preparing specific bidding
documents, and ensure that the initial arrangements for contracting goods, civil works and
services are properly carried out. At central level, the Project Management Unit (PCU)
would only procure: (a) some office and equipment rehabilitation for the PCU and the
planned health policy units; and (b) would carry out all International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) during the first year of implementation for large medical equipment or supply
contracts. Gradually, the executing agencies may undertake ICB procurement, once the
Bank and the PCU have satisfied themselves that they have developed the capacity to
effectively perform  the task in accordance with Bank's guidelines.  Procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 6.1.
6.16  Civil Works. The project would finance the rehabilitation and refurbishing of
existing health posts, centers, and hospitals. No new civil works are expected to be
constructed under the project. It is estimated that about US$320 million equivalent of the
project's cost will be allocated to civil works.  Contracts for civil works would be
awarded as follows:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB), for contracts estimated to cost
US$5,000,000 equivalent or more. Applicants for civil works valued at more than US$10
million would be prequalified. It is estimated that only about 5 percent of the contracts in
this category, accounting for about 22 percent of funds allocated to civil works or an
amount of US$70.0 million equivalent, would be carried out through ICB;
(b)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for contracts estimated to cost
US$350,000 or more, but less than US$5,000,000 equivalent, without restriction of
foreign participation, and up to an aggregate amount of US$210.0 million equivalent.
Simplified NCB documents would be used for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$750,000 (bidding documents agreed with SEAIN for small contracts). It is estimated
that subprojects in this category would account for 78 percent of funds allocated to civil
works; and
(c)   Civil works estimated to cost less than US$350,000, up to an aggregate
amount of US$40 million equivalent, would be awarded on the basis of fixed-term lump-



25
sum contracts by comparison of at least three quotations from qualified contractors. The
contracting of these works would be made by each executing unit (or subproject) with the
approval and review of the PCU. It is estimated that subprojects in this category would
account for about 12 percent of funds allocated to civil works.
Table 6.1. Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (USSmillion)
= = =. .    . .. .    . . .d.. . . . . . . . . .
ICB      NCB      Other    NBF       Costs
1. Works                        70       210    40 a/                 320
(30)     (85)    (15)               (130)
2. Goods                        200        55   35 b/                 290
(93)     (23)      (7)              (123)
3. Consultant services                          100 c/                100
(30)               (30)
4. Administrative Costs                          14 d/       14        28
(12)               (12)
TOTAL                       270       265     201        14       750
(123)    (108)    (69)               (300)
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
a/ Comparison of price quotations for lump-sum fixed price contracts
b/ LIB (Limited International Bidding)/National Shopping
c/ Letter of Invitation
d/ Not involving procurement
NBF: Not financed by the Bank
NOTE: Amounts in parentheses reflect Bank financing
6.17   Goods. The project would finance medical and office equipment and supplies,
computer hardware and software supplies; and vehicles (i.e. ambulances) for a total
amount estimated at US$290.0 million equivalent, procured as follows:
(a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for contracts estimated to cost
US$350,000 equivalent or more; to the extent possible goods or equipment will be
combined in packages valued at US$350,000 equivalent or more and be procured centrally
through  ICB.   It is estimated that about US$200.0  million equivalent of goods
representing 69 percent of the total funds will be procured through ICB.
(b)    Limited International Bidding (LIB) would be applied to the procurement
of very specialized medical equipment for which there is a limited number of suppliers.
Contracts to be awarded under this modality would not exceed US$1.6 million per
package and US$18.0 million in the aggregate. It is estimated that subprojects in this
category would account for 6 percent of funds allocated to goods.



26
(c)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or more, but less than US$350,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount of US$55.0 million equivalent; such goods and equipment would be procured at
the state or municipal level. It is estimated that subprojects in this category would account
for about 19 percent of funds allocated to goods; and
(d)   National Shopping for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$17.0 million equivalent. Such contracts
would be procured locally by the subproject executor. It is estimated that subproject
under this category would account for 6 percent of finds allocated to goods.
6.18  Technical Assistance.  The project would finance individual consultants and
consulting firms to carry out technical assistance, training, studies, dissemination activities,
monitoring and supervision, and auditing and evaluation services. Consultants would be
selected and contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines (August 1981). A standard
invitation package, including letter of invitation, standard terms of reference format, and
the Bank's time-based assignments or lump-sum assignments contract forms will be
agreed with the PCU and passed on to the executing agencies. Contracts estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent with firms or US$50,000 equivalent with individuals
would be formalized on the basis of standard terms of reference and contract forms
previously agreed with the Bank. Any taxes paid by consultants would be excluded from
Bank financing.
6.19 Prior Review by the Bank. The Bank would review:
(a)   Contracts for works of US$3,000,000 or more;
(b)   Contracts for goods of US$350,000 or more, and those submitted to
Limited International Bidding;
(c)   All terms of reference, shortlists, and contracts for consulting firms of
US$100,00 or more;
(d)   All terms of reference, shortlists, and contracts for individual consultants of
US$50,000 or more, in aggregate during the calendar year;
(e)   Contracts for the PMU general manager and Regional PMU managers and
the Project's Procurement Officer;
(f)    The first subproject in every category; and
(g)   Annual Procurement Schedule.
6.20  Based on the subprojects to be financed in the first year of project implementation,
it is estimated that the Bank will review about 35 contracts per year; representing 5
percent of the total number of contracts for civil works but covering 58 percent of funds
allocated to that category; and 14 percent of the contracts for goods and covering about
83 percent of total funds for the corresponding category. In addition, MoH would retain
the services of a financial and procurement auditor satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare
financial and procurement audits at least every six months, on the basis of appropriate
samples of procurement documentation. Audit reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than six months after their completion date.



27
6.21   At appraisal the Borrower presented a procurement plan for the first year of
project implementation acceptable to the Bank. During the Annual Review Meetings, the
Bank would review the procurement schedule for the following year, specifying the
packaging of contracts into international or national tenders, as well as the number and
estimated costs of the subprojects to be financed under the loan.
Disbursements and Documentation of Expenditures
6.22  The proceeds of the Loan (US$300 million equivalent) would be lent to the
Federative Republic of Brazil. The Government would pass them on to BNDES and BB
which would, in turn, use the Loan in conjunction with funds from other international
credit agencies to finance subprojects. The proceeds of the Loan would be passed on to
the beneficiaries as grants linked to management contracts and output indicators. The
Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk.  The beneficiaries (i.e., states,
municipalities, philanthropic providers, NGOs and community-based organizations) would
contract for works, goods and consulting services and supervise project execution with
the assistance of approved consultant firms or individual consultants.
6.23   As a condition of Loan effectiveness, the Borrower would sign a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on terms acceptable to the Bank, making the funds available to BNDES and
BB.
TABLE 6.2: Brazil Health Sector Reform Project - REFORSUS
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank FY   FY97    FY97    FY98    FY98    FY99    FY99    FY00    FYOO
12/31/96  6/30/97   12/31/97  6/30/98  12/31/98  6/30/99   12/31/99  6/30/00
Annual   30       40       50       45       40      35       30       30
Cumu-    30       70       120      165     205      240      270      300
lative
6.24 Disbursement Schedule. The proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period
of five years up to June 30, 2000 (Table 6.2). The project's completion date, i.e. the final
date for presentation of requests for approval or authorization to disburse in respect of
subprojects would be December 31, 1999. The project closing date would be June 30,
2000, six months after the completion date. Consistent with Bank experience with social
funds in Latin America, we expect disbursements to occur faster than usual for traditional
investment projects in Brazil.
6.25   The percent of expenditures for works, goods and equipment, and consultancies to
be financed under the loan is given in Table 6.3.
6.26  Retroactive Financing. The Bank would financing contracts retroactively for
eligible expenditures incurred up to 12 months prior to Loan signing, up to an amount of



28
US$30 million. These funds would be used for financing eligible sub-projects approved in
line with the eligibility and appraisal criteria acceptable to the Bank and IDB.
TABLE 6.3: Brazil Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
Disbursement Arrangements (US$ million)
1  '" -" " 't' '  -SE - '": --' C E" 'lt:-E :';  -'-EE j-E :EtEi. . . .. . . . . .. . .. . ..   .. . ..  .:-  .   .   . .. . .... ..i .  .-.i .  :  .. . . .. . . .. ......iiEM i.! f-: T-    .. -:-
1. Works                  121             85 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures
2. Goods                  102             85 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures
3. Consulting services     30             100 percent of local and foreign expenditures
4. Administrative costs    12             50 percent of local expenditures
5. Unallocated             25
|Total                     300
6.27 Documentation. The PMU would present filll support doculmentation for all
withdrawal applications with a contract value of US$3,000,000 equivalent or more for
-works, US$350,000 equivalent or more for goods, US$100,000 equivalent or more for
services of consultant firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultant contracts.
The PMU would submit withdrawal applications of smaller contract values having a
statement of expenditures (SOEs), and would maintain the respective supporting
documents for Bank review.
6.28 Special Account. The Ministry of Health would open a Special Account at Banco
do Brasil, with an initial deposit of US$25 million equivalent. This would correspond to
about four months of expenditures required under the Project. The Project
Implementation Unit would forward to the Bank the documentation necessary for
disbursements (SOEs or full documentation), covering a number of subprojects or
contracts for services whose aggregate sum would be at least US$5 million.
Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
6.29 Audits. Independent external auditors would audit the Project Management Unit
annually. No later than six months after the end of its fiscal year, the Project
Implementation unit would submit to the Bank copies of the audit reports containing the
auditor's opinion on: (a) project accounts, including statements of expenditures (SOEs)
and the Special Account at Banco do Brazil; (b) whether procurement was carried out in
accordance with agreed guidelines; and (c) the adequacy of internal controls to minimize
the possibility of misuse of funds or other improprieties.
6.30 In addition, auditors would undertake special semi-annual audits of a significant
sample of subprojects financed under the Project, on the basis of acceptable auditing



29
standards and procedures, to review individual contracts, ascertain whether the terms of
these contracts were complied with, inspect progress of works, reconcile physical progress
with financial expenses incurred, and state whether procurement guidelines are being
respected. The auditors would prepare semi-annual reports for the Project Board and for
the World Bank and IDB, to be submitted no later than two months after each quarter, as
well as an annual summary.
6.31   The terms of reference for the special semi-annual audits of a significant sample of
subprojects financed under the Project (Annex G) and the short-list of auditing firms
would be agreed at negotiations.
6.32  Monitoring. The project would be monitored through a number of key
performance indicators including outcome, output, process and input indicators, as
detailed in Annex E. Starting on January 1, 1997, the Project Management Unit would
submit to the Banks semi-annual reports comparing achievements with the set of agreed
indicators. These reports would include information on:
(a)   subprojects presented, appraised, under implementation, completed and
evaluated, including increased coverage and efficiency gains;
(b)   lists and summary reports of studies, technical assistance summaries; lists
and outlines of courses, and number of staff trained; and management
systems installed;
(c)   progress on implementation of health sector reforms;
(d)   annual public health expenditure review and budget proposals;
(e)   full documentation on any subproject of more than US$3,000,000
equivalent, regardless of the source of financing;
(f)   project costs and financing;
(g)   changes in PMU management, structure and operational manual;
(h)   compliance with key legal covenants;
(i)   supervision of subproject execution;
(j)   summary of financial and procurement audit reports; and
(k)   summary of ex-post evaluation reports on a sample of completed sub-
projects.
6.33  Evaluation.  The Project Management Unit would retain the services of an
independent research organization, such as a university or a research oriented non-
governmental organization (NGO), to carry out an ex-post evaluation of a sample of
completed projects, which would consist of a combination of traditional economic
evaluation and beneficiary assessment. The sample would include a sub-sample of private
for-profit investment subprojects financed by BNDES loans.  The sustainability of
subprojects financed with grants and loans wouuld be compared. The relevant terms of
reference and the short-list of research institutions were agreed at appraisal (Annex G).
6.34  Bank Supervision.   The project would require about 26 staff-weeks of
supervision per year, including about 13 weeks in the field. The Bank would carry out



30
two supervisions a year, every June and December, as described in Annex J. The
supervision team would include the task manager and consultants with experience in
health economics and financing, health policy and administration, health care architecture
and engineering, biomedical engineering, family medicine, health promotion and disease
prevention, social sciences (i.e. evaluation and beneficiary assessment), environment, and
in Bank operations. The World Bank would share with the IDB the responsibilities and
resources for project supervision, as it has done for project preparation and appraisal.
7. SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Linkage with Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS)
7.1   The project is consistent with the most recent health sector work in the World
Bank generally (1993 World Development Report), and in Brazil (The Organization,
Delivery, and Financing of Health Care in Brazil, Rep. 12655-BR, and Private Sector and
Social Services in Brazil: Who Pays, Who Delivers, Who Finances, Rep. 13205-BR),
particularly with respect to the problems of underfinancing, inequity, inadequate
regulation, fraud and poor quality of medical care. Most recommendations of that sector
work would be implemented through the project.
7.2   The project fully supports the Bank's strategy for the health sector in Brazil as
described in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil and discussed by the
Board of Directors on June 29, 1995, as well as the Country Assistance Strategy update to
be discussed at the Board in June 1996. In health, the Bank's goal is to help the
Government (a) improve the management, financial viability, and quality of public health
care systems which serve the poor; (b) carry out its role as a provider of public goods; and
(c) encourage investments for the underserved and vulnerable groups. In the CAS, a
health reform loan is considered of sufficient priority to be included in the Bank's
portfolio, even under the low case of high inflation and low overall lending.
7.3   The strategy makes two strong recommendations: "to develop and implement a
formula for transferring federal funds to the states and municipalities that improves equity"
and "to develop a package of essential services of acceptable quality compatible with the
present level of public health expenditure". The project would incorporate the first of
those recommendations by means of a formula for pre-assigning investment funds among
states, based on poverty and health indicators as well as population, before approving



31
subproject proposals within each state.  Besides improving equity, this formula will
prevent a large share of investments from going to those states with greater capacity to
formulate subprojects. The second recommendation in the CAS, to publicly find only a
limited list of interventions at current spending levels, has been rejected by the
Government, on the basis that it would contradict the Constitutional requirement of free
health care. However, as indicated above, the Government has agreed to distinguish
among interventions and pay the full cost of those on a priority list of more cost-effective
services, while paying less than full cost for lower-priority interventions.  It has also
committed to increasing federal health spending to cover the agreed differentiated rise in
reimbursement rates.
7.4   The project would be complemented by a parallel track of broad political dialogue
which would address a number of important sector issues not addressed by the project, for
the sake of project simplicity and implementability: (a) role and size of the National
Health Foundation -- FUNASA and Central Pharmaceutical Agency -- CEME, (b)
management of the introduction and diffusion of advanced technologies in the SUS, and
(c) size of the MoH payroll. The Bank has reviewed the terms of reference for the
relevant technical assistance, which would be financed under the project. In addition, the
Bank is considering a Government concept paper for a possible project which would
decentralize the control of infectious disease to states and municipalities, addressing the
role and size of FUNASA in a decentralized SUS. It is also initiating sector work that
could lead to a follow-up operation in the Northeast.
7.5    The project is also consistent with the recommendations of the HDD paper for the
Board, "Getting Results in the Social Sectors: An Agenda for Action." In particular, that
paper recommends focusing less on a "blueprint" and more on a process. The project
does exactly that: it does not specify the content of the investments to be financed, but
does specify the process for selecting, financing and evaluating them. Similarly, it specifies
a process for setting tariffs to providers according to the costs and the priority of
interventions.
Analysis of Project Alternatives
7.6   The project would primarily finance investments in infrastructure and management
of publicly-owned or publicly financed non-profit private health care facilities. This raises
questions at three levels: first, what would happen if there were no project, or if the Bank
did not participate in it? Second, should it be a single project, or would it be advisable to
delay an investment operation until reforms were better defined and implemented? Third,
what is the best project design? In particular, (a) should the investment be limited to
publicly-owned facilities? (b) should private non-profit providers be fully subsidized or
have to repay part of the investment under the project? and (c) should private for-profit
providers also have access to the investment funds?
7.7   The diagnosis of the current situation of SUS is that it cannot continue to function
with payments to providers that are on average well below costs. If tariffs are not raised,



32
two trends will accelerate: those able to afford private insurance or obtain it through their
employment will abandon the publicly-financed system, and the quality and coverage of
care available to those who depend on the public system will deteriorate further. In the
absence of an investment and reform project, therefore, there would still be a need to raise
tariffs, and in fact the Govemment already did raise them by 25 percent, and is committed
to another 15 percent increase in 1996, differentiated by the cost-effectiveness of
interventions.
7.8   If the situation of the SUS were in other respects the same as it is now, but the
Government had not undertaken any of the reforms described earlier, there would be a
strong argument for holding off an investment operation. At the moment, some proposed
reforms are at the conceptual stage and have not been tested; this is the case for the use
of differentiated tariffs to induce changes in output toward greater cost-effectiveness, and
for recovery of costs from privately-insured patients. However, the Government has
already made substantial progress in negotiating expenditure ceilings, abolishing
quantitative controls on ambulatory care procedures and allowing states and municipalities
to shift resources between hospital and ambulatory care, improving the detection of fraud,
and raising tariffs overall. To hold off longer on needed investments, especially those
where large costs have already been sunk without result, or those where small sums for
rehabilitation would markedly improve the quantity or quality of services, would actually
jeopardize gains already made by the ongoing reform.
7.9   The third question, of the right design for a single investment operation which will
support existing and planned reforms, can be broken down into three more specific issues.
Limiting the investment to publicly-owned facilities would ignore the fact that SUS
operates to a large extent through non-profit private hospitals and clinics that depend
overwhelmingly on public financing. To discriminate against them would make it hard for
them to continue functioning in competition with the publicly-owned services, and would
reduce the technical efficiency of the system even further. It would also affect equity, since
the distribution of capacity between public and private non-profit facilities varies from
place to place and from service to service; limiting the investment to public facilities would
favor some areas and interventions, but not necessarily those that the project should
promote. Therefore it was decided that, on the grounds of both equity and efficiency, no
distinction should be made between publicly-owned facilities and those that are publicly-
financed but private non-profit. This does not mean that the nature of investments will be
the same in the two sub-sectors, because the public sector includes many more projects
that were left unfinished during the fiscal crisis of 1992-93, whereas the philanthropic
sector needs a larger number of smaller rehabilitation investments for facilities that are
already functioning. To ensure that the larger, incomplete public sub-projects do not use
up all the investment resources, the Govemment has agreed to pre-assign 25 percent of
the funds to private non-profit facilities.
7.10   Project financing of investment in such a facility should be limited to the share that
will be used to provide services to the SUS, because some philanthropic facilities depend
on SUS for only part of their revenue and eam the rest by selling services to privately-
insured patients. Two subsidiary issues remain unresolved: (i) even a partial subsidy may



33
lead to investments on services sold in a greater proportion to non-SUS buyers;
investment proposals from providers that receive substantial revenues from non- SUS
sources may therefore get closer screening or auditing than others; and (ii) SUS/non-SUS
revenue shares may not be stable over time; thus, the choice of which year(s) to use in
calculating the project share in investment will be somewhat arbitrary. Neither difficulty
prevents the project from funding all non-profit facilities under the same criteria in
proportion to their dependence on SUS.
7.11   Private for-profit providers will not receive financing from the proceeds of the
loan. They will, however, have access to loans provided by the BNDES. BNDES will
apply to its loans to private for-profit health care providers, the same criteria that the
project would apply to public and non-profit investment proposals. This might reduce the
BNDES health facility loans in return for pushing private borrowers toward the criteria of
equity and allocative efficiency that the project is meant to promote.
7.12   Two types of onlending terms were considered: (a) subloans on terms equivalent
to the Bank loan, or (b) grants linked to establishment of performance contracts and clear
output indicators. The first option was rejected because of (a) the immediate fiscal impact
of raising tariffs in the short run to a level which would cover the costs of capital, (b) more
complicated implementation arrangements, and (c) lessons learned in other countries (eg.
Philippines), in which it has been difficult to recover loans to public and philanthropic
hospitals.
Fiscal Impact and Project Sustainability
7.13   Project sustainability depends on the capacity of the Government to cover the
operating costs of the SUS. Such costs can be expected to increase as a result of: (a)
increased tariffs paid by the SUS (this will be largest fiscal impact); (b) increased recurrent
expenditures to make use of the capital created or restored by the project; (c) higher
volume of some services due to the investments or stimulated by the tariff increases; and
(d) population growth. There are two potential sources of reduced costs: reduction in
fraud (which would allow buying the same real services at lower expenditure or more
services for the same money), and recovery of costs from privately insured patients
(provided new legislation allows this). The project will also reallocate resources from low
priority areas to higher priority areas.
7.14   Tariff Changes. Estimates of SUS spending for 1996 already include an average
increase of 34 percent in tariffs, with respect to their 1995 level. This will rise to 50
percent in 1997, after which tariffs are assumed constant in real terms: it is estimated that
tariffs need to rise between 50 and 70 percent to cover the costs of most services. With
differentiated tariffs, and assuming that average prices are the same for both more- and
less cost-effective services, a 50 percentage average tariff increase is compatible with
raising SUS prices by 70 percent on 70 percent of output, and no increase in services.
Alternatively, there could be a 70 percent rise on half of current output and an increase of
18 percent in the services whose relative price increased. If nothing else happened except
this adjustment to average tariffs, and an increase of two percent per year to accommodate



34
population growth, SUS expenditure would rise to almost US$12.7 billion by the year
2001.
7.15   How changes in tariffs will affect output of services and expenditure on them is
unknown, because SUS operates under three kinds of federal controls at once: on the
tariffs paid to producers for services, on the number of patients whose hospitalizations (9
per 100 population per year) will be financed, and on total expenditure by the federal
government, state by state. Services in excess of one or more of the Federal controls--
whether more services or higher payments--must be financed by states and municipalities,
by insurers, by whatever charitable contributions sustain the philanthropic providers, by
the patients themselves, by internal subsidies from more profitable to less fully-financed
services, or by losses such as deterioration of capital. States are permitted under special
circumstances to spend more that the allocated ceiling, up to a margin of five percent for
states in the South and 12 percent for states in the Northeast.
7.16   Recurrent Costs from Capital Investments. The second element of additional
recurrent cost comes from the capital investments supported by the project. Table 7.1
shows how the US$750 million in project funds might be divided through time and among
the five major categories of expenditure: 70 percent on physical investment, 12 percent on
management improvements, 10 percent on the family health program and the remaining 8
percent on Component II.
Type of Investment   1996       1997      1998       1999      2000     TOTAL|
Infrastructure and     70.0      192.5      122.5     96.6       43.4      525.0|
Equipmentl
Management and         12 0      33.0       21.0      16 6       7.4       90.0 l
Maintenancel
Family Health          10,0      27.5       17.5      13.8       6.2       75.0 l
Promotion
Health Care Financing  8.0       22.0       14.0      11.0       5.0       60,0
7.17 It remains to estimate, for each type of investment, the coefficient between capital
expenditure and additional recurrent expenditure. Component II, the improvement of
Government capacity to set policy and manage the system, should have no effect on SUS
expenditures, although it might either raise or lower what is spent on central functions.
Therefore, this coefficient is assumed to be zero. The same assumption is made for
investment in management and maintenance improvements, which would raise recurrent
spending, if facilities currently operate at less than capacity for lack of maintenance and
administrative ability, and if federal expenditure ceilings were not binding, but could
reduce the costs of providing services. For the family health promotion program, an
estimate from private sector experience is used, given that the coefficient for ambulatory
care as about 1.15. By the time investment in the program is complete, it is therefore
expected to generate some $ 86.25 million annually in additional spending.



35
7.18   The additional recurrent spending generated by the US$525-million investment in
infrastructure and equipment will depend on the nature of the subprojects financed. The
Government has canvassed states and municipalities to assemble a list of almost 3,000
potential subprojects, which over-represents public facilities and includes relatively few
philanthropic providers. In consequence, the list under-represents hospitals: philanthropic
facilities are nearly all hospitals, whereas public facilities include many small health posts.
The Government wants to ensure than no more than half the investment in the project
goes into capacity for hospitalization, but the share going to hospitals could be larger,
since these facilities also provide much ambulatory care. Three-quarters of the proposals
involve construction, to expand a facility, rehabilitate it, or complete it in the case of
projects which were halted in consequence of the fiscal crisis of 1991-93.
7.19   The Ministry estimates that 30 large (200 bed) hospitals, if completed, would add
6,000 beds to the stock devoted to the SUS, and that a variety of smaller projects would
add another 2,000 beds. This total of 8,000 new beds would represent an addition of 1.6
percent to the stock of approximately 500,000 beds in the SUS network. If they were
used at the same unit cost as the rest, the result would be only US$97 million in additional
recurrent costs.    Compared to an estimated total of US$236 million in hospital
investments, this implies a unit cost of nearly US$30,000 per bed, and a recurrent/capital
ratio of 0.4. This is probably artificially low, because of the ceilings and low tariffs on
both hospitalizations and overall expenditures.
7.20   For the investment in ambulatory facilities, the coefficient of 1. 15 used is the same
as for the family health program. For those sub-projects which are on average only 30
percent finished, US$1.00 of project investment represents US$1.43 of additional capital.
The estimated impact on recurrent spending is therefore US$1.64 (1.43 times 1.15) per
dollar of project investment. The overall ratio will lie between these values, perhaps
around 1.25.  It will apply to 40 to 55 percent of total investment, or US$210-289
million. This implies a total increase in recurrent spending of US$260-360 million.
7.21   Combining these estimates yields a total of US$450-500 million in annual recurrent
financing. This is small compared to the additional expenditure implied by a 50 percent
increase in tariffs, even if output of services were not to respond to the price rise. And the
true impact may be smaller, because the number of beds to be put into service will be
closer to the estimate of 8,000 cited above, and/or the rehabilitation subprojects will have
more effect on quality than on increased output of services. This is particularly important,
because the goal of many of the investments is to improve services or bring them closer to
the population and reduce overcrowding at some facilities. Completely new capacity is
needed in the North and parts of the Northeast, but elsewhere in the country the impact on
additional output may be small compared to its improved quality, spatial redistribution,
and shift in composition. Because of these factors, additional recurrent costs before tariff
increases might be as low as half those estimated here, or only US$200-250 million
annually.



36
7.22   To estimate the distribution of the recurrent cost impacts from investment through
the life of the project, it is assumed that hospital investments total US$260 million and
ambulatory care investments US$265 million. The fiscal effect is US$475 million, divided
between US$170 million of hospital-related costs and US$305 million for ambulatory
facilities, which is distributed in proportion to the investments shown in Table 7.1 with a
one-year lag. Changes in the temporal distribution of the investments would not affect the
long-run constant level of US$561 million, but only the speed with which recurrent
expenditure converged on that amount.
7.23   Cost-recovery from  Privately Insured Patients. It is estimated that if cost
recovery is legalized and introduced, it would begin to generate revenue in 1997 and reach
a level of US$380 million annually by 2001, offsetting much of the recurrent cost increase
from investments. This estimate is based, as shown in Table 7.2, on the following
assumptions: (a) 20 percent of all Brazilians have private insurance, (b) 30 percent of the
medical care of the insured is provided by SUS, (c) this care costs the same on average as
the care provided to the uninsured, and (d) recovery of those costs from insurers rises to
40 percent of the potential total, by the end of the project. Assumptions (c) and (d) may
understate the current cost to SUS of subsidizing insured patients, but allow for the
likelihood that if cost recovery begins, insurers will reduce coverage, raise premiums, or
provide more care through private for-profit providers; all such changes will reduce the
potential for cost recovery.
Table 7.2 Projected Revenue from Cost Recovery under the SUS
(a)Totalpopulat. (millions)   162.0       165.3        168.7        172.1        175.6
(b) Percentage with private   20%          20%          20%         20%          20%
insurance
(c) Insured populat (millions)  32.4       33.1         33.7        34.4         35.1
(d) Percentage of the insured  30%         30%          30%         30%          30%
using SUS
(e) Average cost of SUS care   2            2            2            2            2
to privately insured pt/ avrg
cost of overall SUS care
(f) Per capita SUS spending   65.3         70.8         76.8        83.3         90.4
(g) Projected SUS costs      10,580       11,708       12,957       14,339      15,868
($ millions)
(h) Potential cost recovery    12.0%      12.0%        12.0%        12.0%        12.0%
from the privately insured
(i) Cost recovery rate with    0%          10%          20%         30%          40%
respect to potential
(j) Cost recovery from the    0.0%         1.2%        2.4%         3.6%        4.80%
privately insured
(k) Actual cost recovery       0.0        140.5        311.0        516.2        761.7
($ million)
(1) Percentage of all services  30%        30%          30%         30%          30%
that are amenities and can be
charged to SUS
(m? Projected revenue from     0.0         42.2         93.3        154.9        228.5



37
cost recovea
7.24   Fraud Control. Fraud control can also have a major impact on SUS expenditure.
The MoH is currently analyzing several types of fraud: (a) reporting a higher number of
events than those actually delivered; (b) reporting more costly events than actually
delivered; (c) artificially adding the delivery of special pharmaceuticals or diagnostic
procedures to hospitalizations in order to secure a higher reimbursement; (d) reporting
higher hospital length of stay than actually delivered; (e) reporting fictitious events; and (f)
for ambulatory care, charging the allowable ceiling for laboratory  and diagnostic exams
rather that the actual volume. Table 7.3 presents examples of fraud associated with
hospitalizations for 1995.
Table 7.3. Examples of Fraud in Reimbursement of SUS Hospital Care, 1995
Cau o afpaenent rejetion-        No off    W DIhar Df. ......f the t  - J
:..::.::: ::-.-.:  ...- ; :h.o X  .....  
Double billing  for the same            271,479                        71,942
patient within a given month
Charges already included in other        132,541                       35,123
invoices
Length  of  stay  in  hospital          268,863                        71,249
inconsistent with procedure
Inappropriately  billing both a          78,866                        20,899
municipality and the MoH
Hospitalization   not  officially        36,829                        9,760
authorized (serial authorization
number forged)
Hospital with invalid postal code        13,890                        3,681
Hospital does not belong to SUS          29,431                        7,799
Total inpatient days billed by           34,488                        9,139
hospital's capacity
7.25   In 1995, fraud control efforts at the federal and state levels detected irregularities
in the amount of US$774 million. Control of fraud is estimated to save US$1 billion
already in 1996, with savings of US$1.27 billion by the end of the project: this is based on
the assumptions that (a) fraudulent billing is constant at 20 percent of total SUS billing
and (b) half of that amount can be detected with the systems in place. The amount that
could be recovered would decline if fraud becomes less prevalent--which would represent
an even greater saving--and would increase if greater spending on control resulted in a
higher rate of detection.
7.26   The four sources of changed expenditure related to the project are combined in
Table 7.4. The first line shows the impact of the tariff increase plus population growth.
The combination of these impacts with the additional recurrent costs generated by
investments (line 2 - Plus Recurrent Costs), and the savings from cost recovery (line 3 - Less
Cost Recovery), leads to estimated SUS spending of US$12.6 billion by the year 2000 (line 4
- Net Total SUS).  If the savings from fraud control were used to reduce spending rather
than buying more services, SUS expenditure would come down to an estimated US$11.6
billion at the end of the project, or about US$2.3 billion more than in 1996 and close to
US$4 billion over the 1995 level, before any tariff increase.



38
SUS spending (with tariff increase)  10,580  11,706   11,940     12,179    12,423
PILuS Recurrent Costs                0         75        281        411       515
Less Cost Recovery                   0         70        143       219        298
Net Total SUS Spending           10,580     11,711    12,078     12,371    12,640
Less Fraud Control                1,058      1,171     1,194      1,218     1,243
Potential Net SUS Spending        9,522     10,540    10,884     11,153     11,397
Plus Non-SUS                     12,420     12,420    12,420     12,420    12,420
Total Ministry Spending          21,942    22,960     23,304     23,573    23,817
Scenano 1                        21,546    26,415     2,7669     24,933    26,113
Scenano 2                        23,506    28,473     29,829     22,745    24,815
7.27 Assuming that all costs other than those of reimbursing providers are frozen,
following the substantial increases budgeted for 1996, the MoH budget would have to
grow from US$15.7 billion (US$99 per capita per year, 2.6 percent of GDP) in 1995, to
US$23.8 billion in 2000 (about US$135 per capita per year, 3.0 percent of GDP) when
the full fiscal impact of the project would be felt.
7.28 Financial Sustainability. The GoB is pursuing several options to raise revenues
to bridge the financial gap between persent levels of health expenditure and those implied
by the project: (a) in the short-term, significant financing would come from a new two-
year tax on financial transactions--CMF, expected to be approved by Congress soon, while
more stable sources of revenue are secured; (b) earmarking of 30 percent of the Social
Security Budget to the health sector as defined in the Constitution; and (b) persuading
states and municipalities to increase the share of their budgets allocated to health from the
present 3-5 percent to 10 percent. Table 7.4, Scenario 1 estimates revenues under the
assumption that CMF is approved and is later replaced by contributions from both Social
Security Budget (SSB) and from state and municipal budgets. Scenario 2 assumes than
only contributions from SSB replace the CMtF contribution, and that the SSB would grow
with the economy at a 5 percent rate. Under both scenarios, revenues would match the
expenditures generated by the project. Should none of the above materialize, there is still
room for shifting resources from the non-SUS activities of the Ministry to finance medical
care. Also, the investment program size and the increase in reimbursement rates would be
agreed annually with the Government, on the basis of the estimated revenues. The
proposed reimbursement system would make benefits match public resources available for
the system by shifting interventions between Priority I and 2, and between Priority 2 and
3, as well as by adjusting the reimbursement rates for Priority 2 and 3 interventions (para.
4.9 (b) and (c)). The size of the investment committed for each year would be agreed on
the basis of the previous year's SUS budget performance and on the basis of the SUS
budget proposal for the following year.
7.29. Proposals for earmarked funds are generally unsatisfactory, and can only be
counted upon to bridge the financial gap the short run. The long-term viability of the
project depends on a long-term revenue commitment, together with continued control of



39
state level budgets, and a concentration of output on more cost-effective services,
promoted by the differential tariffs. In addition, the project is introducing the concept of
cost-recovery for services provided to privately insured patients, which could raise
revenues up to US$250 million per year. This will take time to build into a quantitatively
important financing item, but represents a significant qualitative change in responsibility.
Finally, through transparent formulas for allocation of Federal funds, the project creates
incentives for states and municipalities to increase the share of their own resources
devoted to health.
Institutional Capacity Analysis and Lessons Learned from Previous Bank
Operations in Brazil
7.30   The REFORSUS  project would complement five other projects in Brazil.
Presently, Brazil has one of the Bank's largest portfolios, being, as of June 1995, the fifth
largest in terms of number of commitments and the fourth largest in number of ongoing
projects. Since 1949, the Bank has financed 122 projects in Brazil. From these projects,
including the ones in health, the Bank has drawn several relevant lessons. In particular,
the Bank has faced the following problems in implementing projects in Brazil (i) frequent
changes in Government policy; (ii) inadequate project design; (iii) poor management
arrangements; and (iv) excessive number of covenants.
7.31   Changes in Government Policy.  In the past, various changes in Ministry
positions have often resulted in decreasing commitment by the Brazilian authorities to
project objectives.  During the last 15 years, projects have had their implementation
timeframe altered and new government administrators have decided not to continue the
previous administration's projects.  Yet these problems seem to have been partially
reduced lately with the successful implementation of an economic reform that has
diminished both the political and financial instability in the country. After experiencing
inflation rates up to 2000 percent a year, for the first time Brazil is being able to keep it in
acceptable levels and to grow economically.  Other factors positively influencing the
project are: (i) the large amount of human and physical resources that has been invested in
the project during its preparation; (ii) the number of stakeholders extensively involved in
project identification, preparation and appraisal (para. 7.38 -- 7.40); in case of
governmental change, one could expect sufficient consensus on the objectives and design
of the project to maintain it among the priorities of other governments; and (iii) finally, the
municipalities, states and non-profit health care providers, who would prepare and present
subprojects and ultimately be the major beneficiaries of the project and make up a strong
constituency for the overall project.
7.32  Inadequate Project Design. Several projects in Brazil have been preceded by
poor institutional analysis. The lack of institutional studies and blueprint designs have
been reflected in the layout and implementation of projects, which most often had to be
reviewed during execution, causing delays in implementation and additional costs. The
REFORSUS project, besides being preceded by broad institutional discussions and
support, has been designed as a demand-driven fund-like project, whereby funds are
allocated to different geographical areas on the basis of agreed criteria, and subprojects



40
are presented by the beneficiaries, ensuring them  ownership.  This demand-driven
approach will facilitate the implementation of the project.
7.33  Poor Project Implementation Arrangements. The structure of the Brazilian
public sector, the number of covenants and transactions involved in each project, and the
lack of adequate assistance on the part of federal government to ongoing projects, all of
them have constituted a source of frustration for the Bank. For the REFORSUS project,
three problems have been identified during appraisal:  (a) the MoH procedures are
cumbersome and its administrative capacity is often low; (b) a large number of financial
transactions between the Bank and the ultimate contractor or beneficiary has delayed
disbursement and implementation; and (c) Federal project management units have not been
able to provide adequate technical assistance and supervision to a large number of states.
Although the MoH is burdened by cumbersome administrative procedures, it has been able
to successfully manage five Bank-financed projects, and the latest operation - AIDS and
STD Control (Ln.3659-BR), has been well-managed. The project would use BNDES and
BB as financial agents, which would contract directly with the beneficiary or with the
providers of works, goods or technical assistance. Such an arrangement would avoid the
ministry's bureaucracy and reduce the number of financial transactions between the Bank
and the contractor or beneficiary. The MoH would keep the technical appraisal and
supervision functions, areas in which it is strong, while it would subcontract to BNDES
and BB all administrative and financial transactions.  The PCU regional technical
assistance offices would help weaker states and municipalities in subproject preparation,
evaluation and supervision. In addition, the MoH would retain the services of an
independent consulting firm for purposes of carrying out evaluations of subprojects.
7.34  Excessive Number of Covenants. Conditionality was reduced to the greatest
extent possible and set, as much as possible to be fulfilled at negotiations. The remaining
covenants, considered as critical to the sustainability of the project would be monitored in
November 1997 and 1998 (Annex J).
7.35  Performance Indicators. The project would include a number of performance
indicators, covering inputs, process, output and outcomes (Annex E). Project supervision
would focus on the agreed indicators. These indicators would be regularly monitored,
deviations analyzed, and corrective actions taken.
National Bank for Social and Economic Development - BNDES
7.36 The BNDES is a public development bank through which the Federal Government
executes its investment policy, including the financing of both public and private
investments in infrastructure and development. Though administratively linked to the
Treasury, it has a legal status under private law and has its own equity. BNDES has two
subsidiaries: BNDESPAR, which offers support through purchases of shareholdings, and
FINAME, which facilitates the purchasing of equipment and machinery by extending
medium- and long-term loans to producers and users.



41
7.37  Fifty-five percent of BNDES's equity and liabilities comes from revenues under the
social security programs (FIS/PASEP and FAT), which are registered trust funds
administered by the BNDES. In addition, it manages other minor funds and programs
such as the Merchant Marine Fund (FMM), the Social Investment Fund (FIS).
Approximately 16 percent of the BNDES's funds come from domestic and external loans,
and from the World Bank, the IDB, the Export-Import Bank of Japan, and KfW. The
total assets of BNDES as of December 31, 1994, were about US$40 billion equivalent,
and its portfolio was approximately US$19 billion equivalent.
7.38  BNDES has become Brazil's largest supplier of medium- and long-term credit. It
has extended financing to practically all sectors of the economy, including the health
sector where it has financed rehabilitation and re-equipment of private hospitals. It carries
out its operations directly or through financial agents.  Initially, the objective of the
BNDES was to support public sector projects, often for import substitution. In recent
years, in line with government policies, it has switched into financing mostly private sector
projects which integrate Brazilian markets competitively with the rest of the world.
7.39   The BNDES will have a dual role in the REFORSUS project. First, it would
provide technical assistance and serve as financial agent for investment subprojects valued
at US$3 million or more, under the terms agreed with the Ministry of Health and the
Banks. Second, it would make available the equivalent of US$400 million for lending to
private sector hospitals, ambulatory services and networks. These resources would be lent
at market rates and within the technical criteria agreed with the MoH. The ex-post
evaluation of subprojects described in para. 6.33 would include a sample of such
subprojects.
Banco do Brasil
7.40  The Banco do Brasil (BB) is Brazils's largest financial institution. It has 24 percent
of demand deposits of the banking system, holds about 20 percent of all system's savings
accounts and 15 percent of mutual funds. Its assets are the largest in the country: US$8. 1
billion equivalent. The BB has 380,000 shareholders, of which the Treasury is the largest
with 29 percent of total capital and 51 percent of voting shares. About 20 percent of
voting shares are in the hands of pension funds and the remainder in the public domain.
Shares are actively exchanged in the the exchange. About 40 percent of BB's operations
are agriculture credits and another 40 pecent in industry, commerce, consumption and
personal loans.
7.41   The Banco do Brasil has an extended network of agencies which cover the entire
country and has a large experience as financial agent in onlending operations for
Government agencies and BNDES, including BNDES' health sector operations. BB is
presently the financial agent for the following projects: Rain Forest Protection Pilot
Project -- US$30 million of grants and loans from the Group of Seven (G-7) Countries,
the Water and Sanitation Modernization Project -- US$240 million loan from the IDB,



42
Income and Employment Generation Project -- US$1.23 billion from the GoB, and Social
Action and Sanitation --US$350 million loan from the IDB.
7.42  In REFORSUS, the Banco do Brasil would operate as the financial agent for
subprojects valued at less that US$3 million equivalent, under the terms agreed with the
Ministry of Health and the Bank.
Social Assessment and Stakeholder Participation
7.43   Beneficiaries.  The final project beneficiaries would be the 110 million who
depend on the SUS for publicly subsidized health care. The direct beneficiaries of the loan
would be municipalities, states, and non-profit health care providers who would have
subprojects financed by REFORSUS. Although the project would not be a program of
targeted interventions and of specific groups, it would benefit the poor, as they are
disproportionately represented among the users of the SUS. In addition, the project
would indirectly target the poor by: (a) pre-assigning grant ceilings to different states on
the basis of poverty indicators, among others; and by (b) requiring differentiated
counterpart funds from municipalities, states, and charities, again on the basis of poverty
indicators. To determine the leverage that beneficiaries have on the choice of subprojects
and allocation of investments, and how they evaluate the impact of REFORSUS, a
beneficiary assessment (BA) will be undertaken during project implementation. The BA
will focus its attention on: (i) the process through which subprojects are generated in
municipalities; (ii) the state-level decision-making process through which projects are to
be financed.
7.44  Stakeholder Involvement.  The major stakeholders in the project are the
Government, which finances the SUS, and public and private providers who would
propose subprojects. All have been involved directly or indirectly in project identification,
preparation, and appraisal, and would participate in project supervision.
7.45   The Federal Government took the lead in project identification, preparation, and
appraisal. States and municipalities has been consulted through their representatives in the
National Health Council -- CNS, the National Council of State Health Secretaries --
CONASS, the National Council of Municipal Health Secretaries -- CONASEMS. In
addition, the wider society has also consulted through their representatives in the Senate
and Congress social committees.
7.46  During implementation, the beneficiaries themselves (i.e., municipalities, state and
non-profit health care providers) would be empowered to prepare and propose their
respective subprojects, from the bottom up. The community, which is the ultimate
beneficiary, will clear subprojects through their representatives in the municipal health
councils. State Bipartite Management Committees, which integrate municipal and state
representatives, will approve subprojects in each state. Finally, beneficiaries will manifest
their opinion in the continuing, independent, ex-post evaluation of subprojects, which will



43
be a mix of traditional economic evaluation and beneficiary assessment. Their opinion will
in turn feed back into the ongoing adjustment of project design and implementation.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
8.1   The REFORSUS project has given a B environmental rating. The project would
have a positive environmental impact by specifically addressing the issue of safe handling
of medical waste. An environmental study for the health sector in Brazil was carried out as
part of preparation, to review the main sector issues and to set the environmental
requirements for subprojects to be financed under the project: beneficiaries would have to
present adequate environmental and safety management plans addressing such issues as
the segregation and handling of wastes, their further transportation and disposal away
from the health facility, and training of facility employees on environmental and safety
issues. Requirements would be differentiated by the type of facility and nature of the
wastes.  Subprojects will be classified into three environmental categories:  low (i.e.
infected wastes, medium (i.e. with both infected and hazardous chemical wastes) and
complex environmental impact (i.e. involving radioactive wastes). The PCU would
include environmental specialists to ensure adequate environmental subproject review.
Bank environmental specialists will participate regularly in supervision missions.
9. BENEFITS AND RISKS
9.1   Benefits.  The project is a targeted poverty alleviation intervention and would
benefit mostly the poor who have the SUS as their only source of publicly subsidized
health care. The revision of the reimbursement rates will correct price distortions which
specifically disadavantaged the poor, while the proposed investments and resource
allocation formula would redirect public investment toward physical infrastructure and
basic health services for the poor. Given that this is a demand-driven project it is difficult
to estimate ex-ante the overall economic benefits which will depend on the volume and
composition of individual subprojects. However basic assumptions using comparable



44
regional experiences"2 show that improved the access and the quality of basic clinical and
public health services when provided in a poor area could avoid about 10 percent of the
burden of disease, measured in reduced number of disease-adjusted life-years lost. Family
medicine pioneer experiments in Brazil have been successful: in Parana, between 1986
and 1994, the program reduced infant malnutrition from 18 percent to 4 percent, increased
vaccination rates from 47 to 75 percent, broadened coverage of prenatal care by 33
percent, and reduced hospital admissions by 20 percent. Relative priority will be given to
maternal and infant care services, to emergency and trauma centers. Studies in Mexico
suggest that delivery and perinatal care could reduce 47 adjusted life years lost due to
maternal causes per 100 beneficiaries, per year. Expert opinion suggests that adequate
emergency and trauma services could reduce, in the respective catchment areas, the
number of life-years lost due to accidents and other external causes by 20 percent, and
save 6 disability-adjusted life-years per beneficiary per year.
9.2    Equity. Although the project is not designed specifically to address the issue of
equity, it will increase the proportion of investments in poor states by establishing new
formulas for allocating health budgets to states on the basis of population, income and
health indicators and installed capacity, thus reducing the discrepancy between rich states
in the South and Southeast and poor ones in the Northeast. In addition, the project would
limit the reimbursement of expensive tertiary interventions with little cost-effectiveness,
which are used free of charge by privately insured middle- and upper-class patients.
9.3    Efficiency.  The project will improve the allocative efficiency of the SUS by
increasing the proportion of public health funds spent on cost-effective interventions.
Priority will be given to subprojects in the areas of maternal, child, family health and
emergency and trauma care, where more cost-effective interventions are delivered, and to
clear public goods such as blood banks and public health laboratories. In addition, the
project will establish a new framework for pricing and reimbursing health care providers
which will favor the reimbursement of more cost-effective interventions at the expense of
less cost-effective ones.
9.4   Finally, the project would improve the internal efficiency of the SUS by: (a)
restoring the system's capacity, (b) putting idle complementary resources back into use;
(c) reducing the cost of interventions already being provided; (d) improving the
reimbursement system; (d) requiring improved management systems as a condition for
receiving funding for rehabilitation and equipment; and (e) reducing fraud. By restoring
the system's capacity, the project would increase the number of patients treated, and allow
a more efficient utilization of diagnostic equipment, beds, and operating suites. Health care
management improvement may improve hospital efficiency (i.e. higher occupancy rates,
shorter lengths of stay, higher bed turnover, higher number of patients treated). In
addition, the automation of management systems could reduce overhead costs. Finally,
12 El Paquete Universal de Servicios Esenciales de Salud, in Economia y Salud, vol 11. (Mexico:
FUNDSALUD, 1994).



45
project incentives for more cost-effective procedures (i.e., day care, outpatient surgery)
would lead to an increase coverage (i.e., number of patients treated) and to the
disappearance of waiting lists.
9.5   Finally, the project would strengthen the capacity of states and municipalities to
act as health care administrators and purchasers. It is expected that services will better
reflect the needs of beneficiaries and that accountability and social control will improve.
In addition, the decentralized financing of health care would also bring efficiency gains, in
terms of reduced overhead costs.
9.6    Project Risks. The main risks of the project are: (a) non-compliance with the
reform agenda, thus jeopardizing the sustainability of the investments; (b) incomplete or
poor implementation of the project; and (c) lack of revenues to finance the incremental
recurrent costs which will be generated by the project and adjustments in the
reimbursement schedules which will be necessary to maintain capital.
9.7    Non-compliance with the reform agenda could be caused by the return of high
inflation and by a change in government policy. The return of inflation would make the
proposed price adjustments extremely difficult. The effect of inflation could only be
mitigated through indexation of prices to inflation, but this would only contribute to the
inflationary spiral. The change of government policy would bring a delay in project
implementation but is unlikely to bring the project to a halt, given the significant
stakeholder support ensured during project identification and preparation (para. 7.31). The
risk of project breakdown would be minimized by continuing to involve the stakeholders
in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects, and by selecting
investments on the basis of clear and transparent criteria which could be supported by any
government. In any case, the Bank would decline to commit against new subprojects
further if annual expenditure reviews and policy analysis show non-compliance with the
policy reform matrix agreed with the Government (Annex I).
9.8    Risks associated with poor or incomplete project implementation can be caused by
funding poorly justified subprojects, poor administrative capacity and by more developed
states and municipalities winning a disproportionate share of resources on the basis of
their comparative advantage in the preparation of subprojects. The risk of funding poorly
justified subprojects would be minimized by using transparent eligibility and appraisal
criteria for subprojects, by prior review of large projects by the MoH and Bank and by the
using the results of the ongoing ex post evaluation of a sample of subprojects as a means
to improve project implementation. The administrative capacity of the Ministry would be
strengthened by BNDES which would be the project's financial agent, and by contracted
consulting services for subproject preparation and supervision, as well as for external
evaluations and audits.  The risk of richer states and municipalities securing a
disproportionate share of resources would be minimized by estimating the investment need
on the basis of population, health and income indicators, and existing capacity, by assisting
states and municipalities which demand less than the estimated need, and by requiring



46
different levels of cofinancing from states and municipalities, again on the basis of income
and health indicators and existing capacity.
9.9   Finally, health sector revenues may not be enough to finance the incremental
recurrent costs which will be generated by the project and adjustments in the
reimbursement schedules which will be necessary to maintain capital. The risk would be
minimized by making each year's investment decisions and the scope of the benefits
package depend on the review of resources available for the SUS, to make sure that the
fiscal impact of the ongoing and the proposed investments are sustainable (paras. 9.4 and
9.5). The proposed reimbursement system would make benefits match public resources
available for the system by shifting interventions between Priority 1 and 2, and between
Priority 2 and 3, as well as by adjusting the reimbursement rates for Priority 2 and 3
interventions (para. 4.9. (b) and (c)). The size of the investment committed for each year
would be agreed on the basis of the previous year's SUS budget performance and on the
basis of the SUS budget proposal for the following year.
10. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
10.1  At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   the PCU would be staffed with a General Manager and Line Managers,
with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.11);
(b)   the Borrower would not significantly change the Operational Manual
without prior approval of the Bank (para. 6.1 1);
(c)   most procurement would be carried out by states, municipalities or
intermunicipal consortia, or philanthropic health care providers following the Bank's
guidelines, and would use national competitive bidding procedures for both goods and
civil works with the standard bidding documents for Brazil (paras. 6.13, 6.14);
(d)   the PCU would retain the services of a financial and procurement auditor
satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare financial and procurement audits every six months on
the basis of appropriate samples of procurement documentation (paras. 6.29, 6.30);



47
(e)   the PCU would retain the services of an independent institution, to carry
out an ex-post evaluation of a sample of completed projects no later than December 31,
1996 (para. 6.33);
(f)   the PCU would submit to the Bank semi-annual reports comparing
achievements with the set of agreed performance indicators (para. 6.32);
(g)   the MoH, BNDES and BB would undertake annual project reviews. Based
on the reviews and on discussions with the Bank, the Borrower, BNDES and BB would
take all necessary remedial action agreed with the Bank (para. 6.32);
(h)   within 90 days from effectiveness, the PCU would create three regional
technical assistance units (para. 6. 1);
(i)    By November 30, 1996, the borrower would submit the 1997 MoH
budget proposal with adequate SUS funds, enough to cover the proposed raise in
reimbursement rates (para. 4.11);
(j)   Every November 30, after effectiveness, the Borrower would provide
evidence of compliance with conditions set out in matrix presented in Annex I. In case of
non-compliance the Bank would decline to approve commitments against new
subprojects, but would continue to disburse against previously approved subprojects and
for technical assistance described under Component II -- Institutional Development (para.
4.11).
10.2  Prior to effectiveness, the Borrower would enter into an agreement providing for
BNDES and BB to serve as financial agents on behalf of the Borrower for the purposes of
assisting in the carrying our Component 1 -- Investment Subprojects, of the Project
(paras. 6.1 and 6.7)
Recommendation
10.3  Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$300 million equivalent to the Federative Republic of Brazil, with a maturity of
15 years and five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



48
Annex A
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project - REFORSUS
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
~~~~~~.....................
Investment Fund
Rehabilitation Subprojects                  170      120      290
Equipment Subprojects                        195      75      270
Management & Maintenance Subprojects         65       25      90
Institutional Development                     40       10       50
Base Cost                                    470      230      700
Contingencies                                 30      20       50
L  ...  ..   .. ...,.............
Financin Plan                              FLocal F           Tiow
Beneficiaries                                 100              100
IBRD                                         1 85     115      300
IDB                                          215      135      350
Total                                        500      250     75-0



49
Annex B
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
B. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$million)
ICB     NCR    Other   NBF    Costs
1. Works                      70       210      40 a/            320
(30)    (85)    (15)              (130)
2. Goods                      200       55      35 b/            290
(93)    (23)    (7)               (123)
3. Consultant services                         100 C/            100
(35)             (35)
4. Administrative Costs                         14 d/   14        28
(12)             (12)
TOTAL                     270      265     201      14       750
(123)   (108)   (69)               (300)
ICB: International Competitive Bidding;
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
a/ Comparison of price quotations for lump-sum fixed price contracts
b/ LIB (Limited International Bidding)/National Shopping
c/ Letter of Invitation
d/ Not involving procurement
NBF: Not Bank-financed
NOTE: Amounts in parentheses reflect Bank financing



50
Annex B
2. Disbursement Arrangements
1. Civil Works              121       85 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures
2. Goods, Equipment,        112       85 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign
and Materials                      expenditures
3. Consulting services      30        100 percent of local and foreign expenditures
4. Administrative costs      12       50 percent of local expenditures
5. Unallocated               25
Total               ~~~~300
. . ..   . . ...   .. . 
am kFY  EY97          7   FEY98   FY98   FY99   FY99   FYOO   FYOO
124M -  1WO 7    12/31/97  6/3098   12/31/98  6/30t99   12/31/99  6130/00
Annual   30       40       50      45       40       35      30       30
Cumu-   30        70       120      165     205     240      270      300
lative



51
Annex C
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
C. TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the project          11 months
Prepared by                                MoH staff and local consultants with Bank
assistance
First Bank Mission                         April 1995
Appraisal mission departure                March 1996
Date of negotiations                       May   1996
Planned date of effectiveness              October 1996
List of relevant PCRs and PPARs            see below
LowiMemb'             Project .     ..  ....                     .    .. ...
Loan 2061-BR         Northwest    Region  March 19, 1990         Rep No 8469
Integrated
Development Program
Loan 2447-BR         Sao Paulo Basic       December 30, 1993    Rep No.12627
Health Care Project
Loan 2448-BR         National Health Policy  December 29, 1992    Rep. No 11503
Studies Project



52
Status of Bank Group Operations In Brazil
IBRD Loans and IDA Credit in the Operations Portfolio
DISBURSEMENT DATA AS OF APRIL 30. 1996
DilTcrcnce
Original aMount in USS million3                bltwccn cxpected
Pr5cje        Loan or     Fiscal                                                                                                                                and wacl
ID         Ctdit No.    Year                   Bomvwcr                           Pupose                      D3RD          IDA   Cancellations  Undisbuned   disbun emnts'
Number of Closd Loms/Credits: 171
Active Loans
BR-PA-35717      L39170      1995    STATEOFDAIIIA                        RURAL POV. (BAJIIA)                    105.00                                 101.50              1.S3
BR-PA-382t2      L39150      1995    FEDREPUBLICOF13RAZIL                 RECIFEM.TSP                            102.00                                 102.00             11.61
BR-PA-33i44      L39130      1995    STATE OF CEARA                       RURAL POV.- CEARA                       70.00                                  70.00              3.00
BR-PA-38185      L39190      1995    STATE OF SERGIPE                     RURAL POV.-SERGII'E                     36.00                                  34.50              0.33
BR-PA-6360      L29500       1933    FEDREPUBLICOFBRAZIL                  IRRSUB-SECTOR                         195.00                       26.00       14.29            40.29
BR-PA-6364      L33750       1991    STATE OF SAO PAULO                   INNOV BASIC ED                        245.00                                  192.57           175.34
BR-PA-6367      L26810       1986    FEDREPUBLICOFBRAZIL                  SALVADORMETRODEVT                      55.00                      1.39         6.41            24.30
DR-PA-636S      L34420       1992    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               WATER SECTOR MODERNI                  250.00                                  201.00           151.28
BR-PA-6369      L27620       1987    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               NRDP PIAUI                             73.00                       25.00        1.33            26.33
BR-PA-6370      L30130       1989    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               NE IRRI JAIBA                          71.00                                   25.64            21.97
DR-PA-6378      1.35470      1993    STATE OF SANTA CATARINA              STATE IIWY MGMT                        50.00                                   23.61             3.03
13R-PA-637S     L35480       1993    STATF. OF ALAGOAS                    STATE IIWY MGMT                        3S.00                                   32.57            -5.43
DR-PA-6379      L34570       1992    FEDREPUBLIICOFBRAZII.                MEIROTRANSP.SI'AtlLO                   126.00                                  51.41            50.08
BR-PA46392      L28640       1987    FED REPU1BLIC OF BRAZIL              LVSTK DISEASE CNTL                     51.00                       10.00       10.94            20.94
BR-PA-6403      L31350       1990    FEDREPUBLICOFDBRAZIL                 NEBASICIILTHSRV II                    267.00                       50.00       92.31           138.03
BR-PA-6407      L31020       1939    SABESP                               WATER SCTR SAO PAULO                  230.00                                   94.00            94.00
BR-PA-6414      L30430       1989    COMGAS, SAO PAULO                    NTRL GAS DIST                          94.00                                   32.02            32.02
DR-PA-6422      L2S950       1933    STATE OF MINAS GERAIS                MINAS GERS FRSTRY                      43.50                       3.00         2.70            10.70
BR-PA-6426      L28610       1937    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               NRDP MINAS GERAIS                      55.00                                   27.22            27.22
BR-PA-6427      L36040       1993    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               NE BASIC EDUC II                      212.00                                  159.24            84.32
BR-PA-6431      L28100       1917    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               SKILLS FORMATION                       74.50                      53.90         1.22            59.63
BR-PA-6432      L271S0       1936    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               NRDP PERNAMBUCO                        92.00                      20.00         3.35            23.35
BR-PA-6433      L2K620       1937    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               NRDP MARANIHAO                         84.00                                   46.37            46.37
BR-PA-6436      L37S90       1995    STAlE OF CEARA                       ClARA UR.DV/WATER CO                  140.00                                  129.60            20.27
BR-PA-6437      L29S30       198I    CEF                                  WhS/PROSANEAR                          30.00                                    3.30             3.30
UR-PA-6438      L29310       1983    FEDREPU13LICOFUBRAZIL                NEENDEMICDIS.CTL                      10900                       27.00         4.47            31.47
BR-PA-6439      L30720       1919    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               AMAZON BASIN MALARIA                   99.00                      26.10         0.73            26.83
BR-PA-6440      L21310       1937    FEDREPUBLICOFBRAZIL                  2NDSPINDPOLLUTTN                       50.00                       2.40         7.02             9.42
BR-PA-4442      LZt31       1990    ELETROBRAS                           ITAPARICA                             100.00                                   10.92           -39.03
BR-PA-6444      L31690       1990    FEDREPUBLICOFBRAZIL                  IIWYMGMTANDREIIAB                     310.00                      40.00        22.33            62.83
BR-PA-6445      L2K00        117    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                NRDP PARAIBA                           60.00                                   17.06            17.06                  X
Page I



53
Differosce
Original aI 4t  in USS milliom                 bedwt expeded
Projcd        Loemor      Fiwal                                                                     ___and aoal
ID         Credit No.    Yer                  BorroweF                          P c"                       IDRD           IDA   Cancelbtlioue  Undisbwid   disburemenls
UR-PA-446       W21730       1990    FEDREPUBLICOFBRAZIL                 NATENVIRONMT                          117.00                                  59.33             59.33
BR-PA4448       W201S0       1919    STATEOFPARANA                       l,NDMOMTI-PARANA                       63.00                                   7.16              523
BR-PA4452       L36630       1994    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              NE BASIC EDUC III                     206.60                                  161.56            51.41
BR-PA-6453      L31700       1990    FEDREPUBLICOF BRAZIL                NE lHlMO                              210.00                      69.00      112.01            111.0S
BR-PA4454       L34440       1992    FEDREPUBLICOFURAZIL                 RONDONIANTMLRES.M                     16700                                   I109              4776
BR-PA-467       L3l300       1990    FEDREPUBLICOFBRAZIL                 AG RESEARCHIn                         4700                        5.00        2.14              7.14
BR-PA-6473      W31600       1990    STATE OF SANTA CATARINA             l.NDMOMIrIl-S CATAR                    3300                                    1426             1053
DR-PA-6433      L32690       1991    FEDREPUBLICOF BRAZII.               SCIENCE RESEARCII&TRN                 15000                        1000        3641             46.43
BR-PA-6492      1_3760       1991    PETROnRAS                           IIYDROCARDNTRNsP/PRO                  26000                                   14479            14479
BR-PA-6495      L343OO       1992    IINDES                              NATL IND POI.LUTN                      50.00                                   33.24            31.24
BR-PA-6505      L34920       1992    FEDREPUBLICOFllRAZII.               MATOGROSSONATRES                      20500                                   14376            105.76
BR-PA-6512      129240       1996    CVRD                                ENV/CONS(CVRD)                         50.00                                   47.79             1.21
BR-PA-6522      127670       1994    STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO             ESP.SANTO WATER                       154.00                                  14261             5501
BR-PA-6524      L36390       1994    STATE OF M3NAS GERAIS               MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                   IS0 00                                  13104             63 04
BR-PA-6540      1SS40        1993    STATE OF MINAS GERAIS               WMR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA                   145 00                                 123 35           116 02
BR-PA-6541      L35030       1993    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              WR QPLN(SPIPAANA)                       9 00                                    1.30             7 33
BR-PA4541       135040       1993    STATIFOFSAOPAULO                   WIRQ/PLbSPtPARANA)                    119.00                                  95.71             1291
BR-PA-6541      133050       1993    STATE OFPARANA                      WilEtLN(SI1'I/ARANA)                  117.00                                  9474              12.12
DR-PA-6543      1.37330      1994    STATF OF MINAS GERAIS               M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC                  150.00                                  122 44            16 77
DR-PA-6546      W36590       194    FEDREPUBIICOFBRAZIL                  AIDS CONTROL                          16000                                   70.03             -717
BR-PA-6547      L36330       1993    FE  REPUBLICOF BRAZIL               METROTRANSP. RIO                      123.50                                  18.36             6304
BR-PA-4S55      W37130       1994    STATEOFPIAUI                        STEIJWYMGTII                           5400                       1600        3217              1610
BR-PA-455S      L37140       1994    STATE OF TOCANTINS                  STE IIWY MGTII                         1700                                    5632            -30 11
DR-PA-6555      L37150       1994    STATE OF MARANAIAO                  STE IIWY MGT 11                        7900                       13.00        54 17            -613
BR-PA-6558      127660       1994    STATE OF PARANA                     PARANA BASIC EDUJC                     96.00                                  *S.33             19.66
BR-PI64564      W39160       1995    FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              BELOHIIMTSP                            99.00                                  9.00              12.00
TOTAL                                                                                                       6733.10         000         431.79     3602 14           2326 76
A"tve Loan                   Closed Los                        Total
Tdal dibwed (IBRD ad IDA)                                            2699.17                      13244.87                    15944.04
Of which repaid                                                      594.37                     10214.21                    10379.08
Tctal ow kd by IBRD ad IDA                                           5706.44                       3057.71                     8764.15
A_o. WMd                                                                0.00                         45.33                      45.13
Of whiL, repaid                                                       0.00                         45.33                      45.83
Totl wAnidmed                                                        3602.14                         97.04                    3699,11_X
L I01dCd di_wrmemet to dade o_i  acla diasa bemad to dale - projected d wraistal.
Noe:  Disb_w_mal dt ae updd at th od oi lad tbweeli of 1d  math.
Page 2



54
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
E. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The following indicators would be reviewed during the annual reviews. Twelve of them, to be agreed with the Borrower at
negoti tions, would serve as the key performance indicators.
v a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                 ...   ......   ....   ...........    .  
Ilmprovement ofeltht Care Deliverya
Input
1. (*) Amount disbursed in subprojects                                       13%            50%            77%           100 %
Process
2.. (*) Proportion of hospitals with at least two of the                                                         150 hosp & 50
following MIS: cost accounting, billing and cost recovery,                                                           amb services
maternal care standards, and safe handling and disposal of
hazardous medical wastes and materials,
Output
4. Hospital admissions per 100 population                       10                                                         <10
5. Ambulatory visits per capita                        2.3/pers/year                                                2.7/pers/year
6. Proportion of pregnancies with prenatal care           (unknown                                                         80%
now)
7. Proportion of children aged 5 with full immunization       63%                                                          72%
Output /Input
8. Average hospital occupancy rate (in those states where  (unknown                                                     > 80 %
this information is collected; not available nationally), and  now)
number of states where collected
9. Average hospital length of stay                                                                                    < 10 days
l0.Cost per 5 tracer conditions (to be agreed) in a sample of
establishments
Outcome
11. Maternal mortality ratio                              38/10,000                                                   30/10,000
12. Injury related fatality rate
13. Hospital mortality rate
14. Hospital infection rate (in those states where data are
collected) and number of states with this information



55
Improing  amh  Care Ving
Process
15. Arrears in reimbursements                                45 days                                                 < than 45 days
16. (*) Proportion of cost reimbursed for List A         50 % (rough                                                         100 %
interventions (highest cost effectiveness)                    average
estimate)
17. (*) Proportion of cost reimbursed for List B interventions  50 %/o(rough                                                 85 %
(medium cost effectiveness)                                   average
estimate)
18. (*) Proportion of federal reimbursement budget
financing list A, after price adjustment
19. (*) Proportion of SUS hospitals recovering costs from         -                                                          60%
privately insured patients
20. Number of states and municipalities with advanced    6 states & 83                                                8 states & 400
autonomy                                                       munic                                                         munic
21 Number of states and municipalities with active audit          ---                                                 8 states & 400
systems                                                                                                                      munic
22. Proportion of recurrent budgets transferred automatically   20 %                                                          60%
to states and municipalities as block grants or capitation



Annex F
1----'i-----                 -I-  -  ---i         1 
I   I:
U~~~~~~~~~ 
IC   ~wi~'I     
Ill   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    1  Iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.     ..     .   ...  ...   .....
-44            I                                              I 
*~~~~~~~~~~~I
d                                       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 



Annex F
LI
-K~ ~ -
*   11   ,...........~~~~~~~~..... ....... .............
-4-- ~~~~                         ~        9
R 't                                   1                      |||                          H
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -4-E
=~~I                                                  -..||    s, -. .-. s. .    -.  s|  .. . |l  
l.II l  I                                     i-



Annex F
o~~~~~
Mn
a  
00~~
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~ ~ ~    ~                                                         S
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Is 
~~I                                                                a  ,sf   RX. IZ2-R1E1          ;1   tP    
H01   1t 1 ,1 1 i S ;1 4  '1 



Annex F
I-  _  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-- 
a~ ~~~~~ -
- ~       =1 -  ,R 



60
Annex G
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
G. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF KEY STUDIES
1. Burden of Disease Study
Background
1.    Health planning has been based on traditional health indicators such as mortality
and morbidity rates, incidence and prevalence of disease and health services supply
indicators-number of beds, and number of physicians per 10,000 people. None of the
indicators used until recently has been able to establish an indication of combined lifetime
effects of premature mortality and permanent or temporary disability due to illness.
Studying the national burden of disease in Brazil will obtain such an indicator: DALYs
(Disability-Adjusted Life Years); the estimation obtains the number of DALYs lost to
premature mortality and those lost due to disability given the present epidemiological
profile of the country. The study will also provide information on the number of DALYs
associated to health risk factors such as smoking, or alcohol abuse. DALYs will be
calculated at the National and State level, by sex and age groups.
2.    The Government of Brazil is introducing policy reforms which would improve the
financial viability, efficiency and management of the Unified Health System -- SUS, and
would expand and improve the delivery of the SUS which is the sole source of care for the
poor. The World Bank and IDB are supporting the Government with a loan to finance the
referenced project, which includes two major components: I -- Improvement of health
care delivery in the SUS, which will fund rehabilitation and equipment, management
improvement and family health and health promotion subprojects; and II -- Improvement
of health care financing and regulation, which will establish a sustainable mechanism to
finance the system, control fraud and ensure the quality of care and promote the
decentralization of responsibilities and resources to states and municipalities.
3.    The project will support decentralization  of health  care financing  and
administration from federal level to states and municipalities, to improve responsiveness to
local needs, to improve accountability and avoid overheads associated with the present
centralized system. The decentralization process must be accompanied by well informed
health planning processes of states and municipalities; the Burden of Disease study will
improve national and local capability for establishing health priorities.



61
Annex G
Objectives
4.     The main objective of the study is:
(a)    to calculate the total burden of disease at the national and state level in
1995 associated to communicable or transmissible diseases (Group I),
non-transmissible diseases (Group II) and violence (Group III).
(b)    analyze Burden of Disease results and highlight health priorities to guide
health policy regarding: (i) resource allocation; (ii) design of health
programs.
Scope of work
5.     To carry out the study, the researchers would:
(a)    collect all mortality, morbidity and demographic data available.
(b)    correct mortality data by volume (to correct underreporting) and by quality
(disease classification imperfections) and create data base.
(c)    generate life tables for Brazil.
(d)    create data bases on disease incidence by age, sex and region.
(e)    develop by national expert consultation, and/or structured surveys,
information to estimate disability weights for each disease, illness age of
onset, duration of illness, etc.
(f)    calculate DALYs due to early mortality, and to morbidity at the national
and state levels, by age and sex.
(g)    calculate DALYs by risk factors.
(h)    analyze results and discuss with health policy makers.
(i)    analyze burden of disease which could be averted by improving and
targeting resource allocation.
General Requirement
6.     The preliminary report should be presented and discussed with the participation of
health authorities at different government levels, research institutions, public and private
health providers.
7.     The expertise of demographers, epidemiologists, statistician/data base managers,
and health economists, is needed for the development of the study.



62
Annex G
Time schedule
Letter of invitation   May 1996
Selection         June 1996
Contract          July 1996
Preliminary Report
and Workshop      March 1997
Final Report      July 1997
Estimated budget
National Researchers           US$600,000
International Advisors
(travel/time and activities)   US$100,000
Data collection (if necessary)  US$500,000
Travel                         US$ 60,000
Report dissemination           US$  5,000
Total                         US$1,265,000



63
Annex G
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
G. Terms of Reference of Key Studies
2. Cost-Effectiveness Study
Background
I.    Introducing new tools to establish health priorities is an important task for health
planners and policy makers. To allocate limited health resources where higher health gains
can be achieved at lower cost is important for the sector's efficiency. The possibility of
introducing a measure of the number of DALYs (health gains) obtained by the allocation
of each dollar in the prevention and treatment of specific diseases is achieved by the
analysis of the cost-effectiveness of a group of interventions.  Studying  the cost-
effectiveness of a group of interventions in Brazil will allow to establish priorities among
them, in order to guide resource allocation towards those where health gains achieved are
higher for each dollar invested.
2.    The Government of Brazil is introducing policy reforms which would improve the
financial viability, efficiency and management of the Unified Health System -- SUS, and
would expand and improve the delivery of the SUS which is the sole source of care for the
poor. The World Bank and the IDB are supporting the Government with a loan to
finance the referenced project, which includes two major components: I -- Improvement of
health care delivery in the SUS, which will fund rehabilitation and equipment, management
improvement and family health and health promotion subprojects; and II -- Improvement
of health care financing and regulation, which will establish a sustainable mechanism to
finance the system, control fraud and ensure the quality of care and promote the
decentralization of responsibilities and resources to states and municipalities.
3.    The project will support the introduction of mechanisms to improve resource
allocation where health gains obtained are higher. This is also important for SUS resource
allocation in the context of decentralization in order to improve responsiveness to local
health needs, accountability and resource allocation. The decentralization process must be
accompanied by well-informed health planning processes of states and municipalities; the
Burden of Disease study and the study of cost-effectiveness of interventions will improve
national and local capability for establishing health priorities.
Objectives
4.    The main objective of the study is:
(a)   to estimate the cost-effectiveness of health interventions in Brazil; and



64
(b)   to prioritize health interventions according to their cost-effectiveness and
in conjunction with other criteria used by policy makers and health
planners when applying the concept to resource allocation.
Scope of work
5.    To carry out the study the researchers would:
(a)    define health interventions associated to the treatment and prevention of
each of the diseases being considered, which implies the preparation of a
treatment "protocol".
(b)   to estimate the cost of those interventions based on the provision of
services in Brazil, as a result of considering different types of providers.
Then costs estimates will be representative of different levels of
efficiency, salary levels, and the cost level of other health inputs.
(c)    estimate the effectiveness of interventions according to Brazilian
characteristics, including: demographics, economic conditions, supply of
health services, access to health care, utilization patterns,and incidence of
diseases.
(d)    construct data bases for the interventions to be considered with their
estimated cost, the associated Burden of Disease, the efficacy of those
interventions (from world wide clinical trials in the literature) and disease
incidence.
(e)    estimate cost-effectiveness ratios for the interventions considered and
rank them accordingly.
(f)    analyze and discuss results with health planners, health researchers and
international experts.
General Requirement
6.     The preliminary report should be presented and discussed with the participation of
health authorities at different levels of government, research institutions, public and private
health providers and international experts who will contribute with experiences in other
countries.
7.    Health economists, data management and information systems experts, physicians
and an epidemiologist are needed for the implementation of the study.
Time Schedule
Letter of invitation       May 1996
Selection                  June 1996
Contract                    July 1996



65
Preliminary Report      March 1997
Workshop                May 1997
Final Report            August 1997
Estimated budget (Revise)
National Researchers                       US$300,000
International Advisors (travelUtime
and activities)                            US$ 40,000
Data collection - cost estimations         US$100,000
Report dissemination                       US$  5,000
Total                                      US$445,000



66
Annex G
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
G. Terms of Reference of Key Studies
3. Ex-Post evaluation of a sample of subprojects
Background
1.    The Government of Brazil is introducing policy reforms which would improve the
financial viability, efficiency and management of the Unified Health System -- SUS, and
would expand and improve the delivery of the SUS which is the sole source of care for the
poor. The World Bank is supporting the Government with a loan to finance the
referenced project, which includes two major components: I -- Improvement of health care
delivery in the SUS, which will fund rehabilitation and equipment, management
improvement and family health and health promotion subprojects; and II -- Improvement
of health care financing and regulation, which will establish a sustainable mechanism to
finance the system, control fraud and ensure the quality of care and promote the
decentralization of responsibilities and resources to states and municipalities.
2.    The project will finance subprojects proposed on a competitive basis by public and
philanthropic health care providers, including states, municipalities, NGOs and
community-based organizations. The impact and sustainability of subprojects will be
assessed through an ongoing evaluation of a sample of subprojects, which will be a mix of
traditional economical evaluation and beneficiary assessment.
Objectives
2.    The main objective of the study is to determine the impact and sustainability of
subprojects financed under the project, on an ongoing basis.
Scope of Work
3.    To carry out the work the researchers will evaluate the impact, the degree of
stakeholder involvement and ownership, and the sustainability of a sample of subprojects,
on an ongoing basis, and will feed back results every six months. These results will
constitute the main instrument to adjust the project on a yearly basis.
4.    Researchers will select a purpose sample of subprojects which would have been
concluded during the previous six months. The sample will include typical rehabilitation,
equipment, management, family health and health promotion projects. It will include a
subsample of private for profit investment subproject financed with BNDES loans. It will
cover projects located in all Regions (i.e. in the South and Southeast, North, and
Northeast regions).  It will include subprojects presented by states, municipalities,
philanthropic providers, NGOs and community based organizations.



67
5.    The researcher will use a mix of quantitative and qualitative methods, including:
surveys, participatory observation, interviews, document analysis, fiscal and economical
analysis, as appropriate.
Impact. The researcher will look into subproject impact on the quality of care provided
by the institution funded under the project, including the impact on:
inputs (i.e. availability and accessibility to List A interventions),
process (i.e. compliance with quality of care standards agreed in the project),
outputs (i.e productivity and efficiency), and
outcomes and sustainability (i.e. tracers, such as maternal fatality rate, selected
according to the institution involved, and user satisfaction).
Ownership and stakeholder involvement. The researcher will review the composition
of the respective Municipal and State Health Councils (i.e. age, sex, occupation, social
class, recruitment, turnover) frequency of meetings and method for arriving at decisions,
methods of arriving at priorities, outside pressures, awareness about REFORSUS, relative
priority of subprojects financed under REFORSUS, the process for evaluating and
supervising subprojects, supervision of subprojects, and interactions with BNDES and the
Project Coordination Units.
Financial Sustainability. The studies will analyze the fiscal impact of the subproject and
discuss its financial sustainability in the medium term, including cost recovery.
Final study reports will include specific recommendations on how different project
implementation arrangements could improve the responsiveness to local needs, efficiency
and impact in the medium term.
General Requirements
Time Schedule
Letter of invitation      Sep   1996
Selection                 Oct   1996
Contract                  Nov   1996
First report              May  1997
Follow up reports         May and November of each year
Budget Per Year
Researchers               US$ 75,000
Travel                    US$ 15,000
Supplies and administration  US$ 10,000
US$100,000



68
Annex G
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
G. Terms of Reference of Key Studies
4. Audit of Subprojects
Background
1.    During loan negotiations the World Bank and the Borrower agreed to contract
independent auditors for auditing the operations of a significant sample of the subprojects
financed under the Project. Although the Bank, the Borrower and the auditors will jointly
determine the number of subprojects to be audited by semester, the auditors will select the
sample to be audited based on their professional judgment (considering, among other factors,
the importance of the subprojects for the project's success, their materiality and their level of
risk) and special concerns expressed by the Borrower or the Bank. The auditors will present
the results of their work in semi-annual and annual audit reports to the Project Board and the
Bank.
Objectives
2.    The objective of this work is to carry out an independent Performance Audit of the
activities performed by the different entities that are implementing subprojects under the Health
Sector Reform Project. The audit will encompass activities involving technical, financial and
performance aspects of project implementation.
3.    The audit would be performed in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards applicable to the Public Sector, and therefore would include such tests as the
auditors consider necessary under the circumstances. The specific objectives of the audit are to
determine whether the institutions have:
(a)    Fulfilled, in an adequate manner, the obligations contracted under the sub-
project agreement.
(b)    Implemented project activities efficiently, effectively, and
economically.
(c)    Achieved the objectives and goals proposed for the subproject or made
satisfactory progress towards achieving such objectives and goals.
(d)    Produced accurate and dependable accounting and managerial information
for the subproject.



69
Scope of Work
4.     The audit should be compatible with auditing standards for performance audits
published by institutions such as the Latin American Institute for Accounting Sciences
(ILACIF) or the U.S. Office of the Comptroller General (GAO, Yellow Book). Therefore, the
audit must include adequate planning and supervision, proper evaluation and testing of the
internal control structure and systems, and sufficient objective evidence to allow the auditors to
reach reasonable conclusions on which to base their opinions. The audit reports would include
a sunimary of the main procedures used for the audit.
5.    The auditors must be alert for situations or transactions that may indicate fraudulent,
wasteful or illegal acts and expenditures. If such evidence exists, the auditors would contact
the duly authorized representatives of the Borrower and the Bank, and exercise caution and
due professional care in expanding their audit steps and procedures related to illegal acts.
6.     The auditors should use the following paragraphs as a basis for preparing the audit
programs and planning the review. These guidelines should not be considered to include all
relevant topics or to restrict the auditor in any way, nor do they discharge the auditor from the
responsibility to exercise due care and professional judgment. The audit steps should be
modified to adjust to local conditions, the specific design and implementation procedures of the
Project, and provisions of the loan agreement. Any limitation in the scope of work must be
communicated as soon as possible to the duly authorized representatives of the Borrower and
the Bank.
7.    It is first necessary to obtain preliminary information about the Project and the
subprojects subject to audit. The following is a list of documents that may be applicable to
projects financed by the Bank. The auditors must select those that they considers necessary to
perform the audit:
(a)    The loan agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(b)    The loan agreement between the Borrower and the Project Management
Unit.
(c)    The agreement between the Project Management Unit and the entity
implementing the subproject.
(d)    The Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
(e)    International and National Procurement (bidding) Guidelines of the
Bank and the Borrower.
(f)    The subproject's financial and physical progress reports; plan or chart
of accounts, description of the accounting systems; procurement policies  and
procedures; procedures for the receipt, storage and distribution of goods and material; and any
other documentation that may be necessary for the successful completion of the audit.
8.    Review the contract for each subproject, identifying the obligations assumed by the
subproject implementing entity, and perform any necessary audit procedures for determining
the level of compliance with the requirements established, where items are significant in value.
For example, the auditor should verify whether the implementing agency has adequately
contracted for construction of new facilities, procurement of equipment or other such activities
(to this effect, the auditors should verify that for the procurement of goods and services, the



70
implementing entity has followed applicable procurement and contracting procedures
established by the Borrower or the Bank).
9.    Perform steps necessary for determining whether the activities under the subproject have
been implemented efficiently, effectively and economically. In this regard, audit activities should
include a review to ensure that significant activities under the subproject are being, or have
been, implemented in accordance with agreed timeframes and technical specifications; that
contracts have been properly valued and paid; and that payments to contractors and consultants
correspond to works or services actually rendered and in the amounts agreed. Auditors should
also compare the cost of the contract with the final cost of the works performed, analyzing
variances with regard to similar works performed in other subprojects. They should also verify
that the registers for contractors and consultants are properly kept, are periodically updated in
accordance with agreed procedures, and that they give all qualified contractors/consultants the
opportunity to participate in the selection process.
10.   Perform steps necessary to determine whether the implementing entity has achieved the
objectives and goals proposed for the subproject or made satisfactory progress towards
achieving such objectives and goals. In this regard, audit activities should include a review of
the objectives and goals set and the perforrnance indicators agreed to, and an evaluation as to
whether the goals and objectives are being achieved. The evaluation shall include different
aspects quantified by the performance indicators agreed to, such as the number of patients
treated during the period, number of clinical tests or surgical procedures performed, and
number of families being served. Other factors to evaluate may include, as in the case of
equipment, whether: (i) system capacity has been restored, (ii) idle complementary resources
have been put back in use, or (iii) the cost of an intervention already being provided has been
reduced.
11.   Perforn  steps necessary for determining whether the entity implementing the
subproject has established an adequate accounting and financial information system and that the
data inputted into the system are reasonably reliable. The auditors should verify that accounting
and intemal control procedures are being complied with, and that documentation related to the
subproject is properly maintained in accordance with adequate procedures.
Other Responsibilities
12.   The auditor should comply with the following requirements:
(a)    Conduct entrance and exit conferences with the implementing entity. The
date of these meetings should be communicated to the duly authorized
representatives of the Borrower and the Bank so that they can participate
in such meetings, if deemed necessary.
(b)    Plan the audit work so that audits of different entities can be perforned
throughout the year.
(c)    Independently reference the audit report before issuing it. As part of their
quality control, the auditors must independently reference the final drafts of the
audit report and the Management Letter (which subsequently in this TOR are



71
included in the term "the report"). Before referencing, the draft report must be
adequately indexed and cross-referenced to the working papers. Each
statement, date, number, amount and fact that appears in the report must be
referenced to the corresponding working papers. The reviewer must not be a
member of the audit team and should report directly to the partner in charge of
the audit.
13.   The reviewer must ensure that (a) the content of the report is supported by sufficient,
competent and relevant evidence in the working papers; (b) the conclusions in the report are
logical and related to the findings; and (c) the recommendations can be implemented and are
directed to the cause of the problem or deficiency. The reviewer must ensure that: the contents
of the report comply with the Auditing Standards used for the audit (which must be clearly
identified in the audit report); each audit objective has been satisfied; and the findings are
related to the audit objectives. Each statement, number or amount must also be checked with
the working papers. Any information presented in tables should also be verified, adding all the
figures and amounts listed, and checking these against the applicable working papers.
14.   All reviewer comments must be recorded in a summary sheet and resolved
satisfactorily by the audit team or by the partner-in-charge. This summary available for any
quality control review by the Bank.
15.   Obtain a representation letter signed by the management of the subproject
implementing entity, for all subprojects audited.



72
Annex G
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
G. Terms of Reference of Key Studies
5. Annual Reviews
The annual reviews would be carried out by a combination of Bank staff and
consultants with specialties in public health administration, health econornics, institutional
development and management information systems. The reviews would be prepared by
the PCU, and would include reviews of project implementation reports, discussions with
the management of the MoH, and visits to selected states. The reviews would take place
in November of each year. The annual reviews would evaluate project performance
against implementation plans and agreed targets and provide Bank and MOH management
with feedback on project achievements. More specifically, the annual reviews would:
(a)   review implementation of both project components during previous year,
including commitments, disbursements, and compliance with benchmarks;
(b)   compare actual results with the program as regards: (i) allocation of funds
among states, and (ii) allocation of funds among large projects for
completion and equipment of state and municipal hospitals, projects
presented by philanthropic hospitals, and small and medium projects;
(c)   review financial and procurement audits;
(d)   review ex-post beneficiary assessments;
(e)   review compliance with loan agreement covenants and Bank guidelines;
(f)   review overall implementation of health sector strategy, as described in
policy letter;
(g)   review financial performance under SUS during previous year, and agree
on satisfactory financial performance for the next year (as contemplated in
the policy matrix);
(h)   review adjustments in reimbursement schedules (as contemplated in the
policy matrix);
(i)   review timelines of payment of health services (as contemplated in the
policy matrix);
(j)   review implementation of national audit system to reduce fraud (as
contemplated in the policy matrix);



73
(k)   review implementation of quality assurance program (as contemplated in
the policy matrix), and
(I)   review progress in implementation of studies and technical assistance.
2.    The annual reviews would also analyze the performance of the PCU (including its
regional technical assistance units - URATs) in terms of project implementation and
coordination of executing actions by the MOH, the states and the municipalities. They
would assess the extent to which the project management information system is adequate
to provide the appropriate information for decision-making and reporting to financial
institutions, including the Bank. The composition of the PCU would be analyzed to assess
if it is adequate to provide adequate technical support to the executing units.
3.    The annual reviews would address project performance in terms of flow of funds,
as contemplated in the contract between the MOH and Banco do Brasil. They will also
review the quality of economic analysis of large projects and efficiency in contracting of
consulting services, as provided for in the contract between the MoH and BNDES.
4.    On the basis of the above, the Bank and MoH will agree on:
(a)   main issues in project implementation;
(b)   proposed modifications to project design, if needed, to adjust to changing
circumstances; and
(c)   work plan for the coming period.



74
Annex H
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
H. SUPERVISION IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Appr. date             Activity                     Skills Requirement        Staf Inputs
Sep 1996   Project launch workshop and first    Task manager, health economist  10 staff
supervision. Review 1997 budget    specialists in procurement,    weeks in the
proposal                         disbursements, audits and evaluation,  field
environment
Dec 1996   First Supervision. Review        Task manager, specialist in civil  6 staff weeks
compliance with policy letter. Focus  works and medical equipment  in the field
on infrastructure subprojects
Jun 1997   Second supervision. Review 1998    Task manager, health economists and  6 staff weeks
budget proposal. Focus on        specialist in public health      in the field
management development          administration, environment
subprojects
Dec 1997   Third supervision mission. Review   Task manager, specialist in family  6 staff weeks
compliance with policy letter. Focus  medicine and in health promotion  in the field
on family health, health promotion
and disease prevention subprojects
Jun 1998   Mid-Term review. Review of 1999   Task manager, health economist,  10 staff
budget proposal.                specialists in health policy and  weeks in the
administration, health infrastructure  field
and equipment, family health and
health promotion, and operations
analyst, environment
Dec 1999   Fifth supervision mission. Review    Task manager, health economist, and  8 staff weeks
of compliance with policy letter.  specialists in health policy   in the field
Focus on regulation, quality    administration and audits
assurance and fraud control
Jun 2000   Sixth supervision mission. Review    Task manager, health economist and   6 staff weeks
of 2001 budget proposal. Focus on   social scientist specializing in  in the field
ex post evaluation and beneficiary    beneficiary evaluation, environment
assessment



75
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project - REFORSUS
L PROPOSED SECTORAL POLICY CONDITIONALITY MATRIX
:''~~~~~~~~~~~.. .'::':-''':-'"" ...................''                 :'    ":     -'                ~t  ., ...,X .. .. ..  ::  ..    ...-
Ensure adequate compensation for     B. 1. Proposal to reimburse the full  C. 1. Reimbursement schedule         D. 1. Reimbursement schedule
health care providers                cost of Priority 1 interventions.    covering the full cost of Priority 1  covering the full cost of Priority I
Reimbursement of other interventions  interventions and 75-85% of costs of   interventions and 75-85% of costs of
raised with inflation                Priority 2 interventions, depending  Priority 2 interventions, depending
on fiscal sustainability. Priority 3  on fiscal sustainability. Priority 3
interventions reimbursement raised    interventions reimbursement raised
with inflation                       with inflation
Match the system with revenue        B.3. Agree on Priority 1             C. 3. Agree on Priority 2
constraints                         interventions of highly cost effective   interventions of moderately cost
interventions                        effective interventions and on the
remaining Priority 3 interventions.    D.4. Agree on financial
B.4. Agree on financial requirements  C.4. Agree on financial requirements  requirements of SUS for 1999 and on
of SUS for 1997 and on satisfactory    of SUS for 1998 and on satisfactory    satisfactory execution of the 1997 and
execution of the 1995 budget         execution of the 1996 and of the first   of the first nine months of the 1998
B.5. Introduce legislation in        nine months of the 1997 budget       budget
Congress to allow cost-recovery from
the care provided in the SUS to
privately insured patients
Reducefraud                          B.6. National Audit System at        C.6. Audit system active in 8 states    D.6. Audit system in 12 states and
federal, state and municipal levels.  and 150 municipalities. Satisfactory   400 municipalities. Satisfactory 1997
Satisfactory 1995 fraud control      1996 fraud control activity report   fraud control activity report
acfivity report
Controlfederal public health         B.7. Global health budgets for at    C.7. Global health budgets for at    D.7. Global health budgets for at
expenditures and improve equity of    least 20% of federal health transfers   least 30% of federal health transfers   least 60% of federal health transfers
resource allocation                  to states and municipalities         to states and municipalities         to states and municipalities
B.8. Formula for automatic
allocation of budgets to states and
municipalities, including income,
health and existing supply
Decentralization                     Four states and 80 municipalities
.with advanced autonomy                                .                .



76
Annex J
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
J. LETTER OF HEALTH POLICY
AVISO/MS/No361/GM                            Brasilia DF, May 7, 1996
To the President
Dear Sir:
I have the honor to write to you for the purpose of presenting the proposal for the
REFORSUS Project, "Strengthening the Reorganization of the Single Health System," to be
carried out by this Ministry. This project is based on the need to guarantee that the principles of
equity and universality are observed in the Single Health System (SUS), in accordance with the
laws governing the health sector in Brazil.
Over the past ten years, the reorganization of Brazil's health system has brought about
significant changes in the legal, managerial, and institutional aspects of the system, especially by
unifying and decentralizing activities. The 1988 Federal Constitution, with its repercussions on
the State Constitutions (1989) and the Municipal Organic Laws (1990), and Federal Laws Nos.
8080/90 and 8142/90, provides a legal framework that is conducive to and provides an incentive
for basic changes in the health system.
In 1993, with the publication of the Health Ministry's Basic Operating Rule 01/93, the
terms governing the decentralization process were introduced. It provided for the management of
the health network to be decentralized gradually, in stages. Management conditions were
introduced for states and municipalities, under which they would increasingly take over
management of resources transferred by the federal government.  In addition, forums for
interinstitutional negotiations were set up, including the Tripartite Intermanagement Committee at
federal level and the Bipartite Intermanagement Committee at state level, made up of
representatives of the Ministry of Health, states, and municipalities and formed for the purpose of
negotiating, drawing up proposals, and monitoring the introduction and operation of the SUS,
under the supervision of the National and State Health Councils.
This process of organizational reform has not been accompanied by increased financing for
the sector. On the contrary, flows of financial resources into the sector have continued to be
limited and have even been further reduced. In view of the volatility of this financing and the lack
of an adequate remuneration policy for service providers, investment has declined and the quality
of services rendered has dropped sharply. Both public health care units and supplementary private



77
ones have become noticeably obsolete, and inequalities and deficiencies in health care coverage
and hygiene have worsened. Fees of health care providers have lagged so far behind the average
cost of services that philanthropic hospitals, the backbone of the public health system, have shut
down units or dropped out of the system, while public hospitals have reduced the number of beds
and the range of services offered.
This deterioration has forced the present government to look for ways to remedy the
situation. One way is to further the decentralization process initiated in 1993, by strengthening the
Bipartite and Tripartite Committees, by allowing states and municipalities greater autonomy in
management, and by guaranteeing a larger volume of federal resources to be transferred as part of
the general budget. This process is being consolidated through the new SUS Basic Operating
Rule, meant to further the decentralization process by including automatic, direct transfers of
financial resources to states and by giving greater responsibility for operating the SUS to State
and Municipal Health Secretariats. The Rule is also intended to revise the basis of the system for
paying for services provided by focusing on per capita remuneration for primary health care and
to define a list of incentives to accelerate the reform process.
In addition to these changes in the Basic Operating Rule, the Ministry of Health has also
endeavored to do the following: ensure adequate compensation to health care providers; protect
the system from subsequent deterioration by making the necessary changes; reduce fraud and
increase the quality of services, provide for a more equitable allocation of resources to cover
current and capital costs; and, control and stabilize expenditures.
In its effort to guarantee that health care providers receive adequate compensation for
their services, in 1995 the Ministry granted a 25% cost of living adjustment in hospital and
outpatient procedures, and established a price negotiation board made up of managers and
representatives of service providers. We also intend to introduce a mechanism for the regular
revision of health care service providers' fee schedules and to update them on the basis of
estimates that are closer to the cost of current health care practices. In addition, we plan to
publish new fee schedules including differential adjustments based on which procedures are most
cost-effective and full payment for diagnostic or treatment procedures.
We initiated efforts to protect the system against future deterioration by seeking new
sources of revenue in 1995, in the form of a bill presented to the National Congress to recover
costs of care provided to patients covered by supplementary health insurance, and by revising tax
exemptions for private health care services. Once the law permitting this compensation has been
promulgated, adequate operating tools will be immediately introduced to make this cost recovery
viable.
It was our concern to reduce fraud and guarantee the quality of services that led to the
introduction of Decree No. 1651/95, which was signed by the President of the Republic and
regulates the National Audit System (SNA), and to the creation of the National Quality Health
Care Committee. Regulations are being drawn up and cases of fraud and irregularities are being
analyzed from a qualitative and quantitative standpoint. In 1995, 2 million hospital stays for a
total of 15 million, or about R$500 million, were paid as a result of these analyses. To increase the



78
quality of health sector services, tools to monitor adverse results in maternity clinics were
developed. This program will be expanded to cover other types of establishments in the next
three years, and there are also plans to introduce quality control mechanisms in hospitals and
outpatient units, among other activities, between now and 1998.
To ensure a more equitable allocation of resources to cover current and investment costs,
overall ceilings were established, to include hospital and outpatient care. They were based on the
integrated programs which were agreed with the Bipartite Committees and which provide for a
prioritized supply of health services and parameters applicable to the demand for those services.
In the area of primary health care, a per capita remuneration arrangement is being worked out to
guarantee that all citizens will be treated equally.  As for the allocation of resources for
investment, a formula was devised to compensate those states and municipalities with fewer
health care services and thus with reduced public expenditures, so as to increase coverage of the
population. In the medium run, these instruments will be improved, to increase gradually the
percentage of resources to cover current and investment expenditures distributed to states and
municipalities on the basis of more equitable criteria. In this same area, 87 municipalities were
granted greater autonomy to manage their health sectors (partial management conditions). Once
the new Operating Rule is in effect, this number will be increased and procedures will be
introduced for automatic transfers of resources to states that have already officially qualified for
management autonomy.
As for control and stabilization of expenditures, in the short run the government is
increasing transfers to municipalities under the general budget. It plans to extend this process to
new municipalities and states in the course of this year. In addition, it is introducing mechanisms
to assess and manage the dissemination of new technologies to the SUS.
The program to consolidate the SUS, which was initiated in 1995 and is expected to last
into the next decade, is based on a decentralized management model according to which the states
and municipalities will assume full responsibility and autonomy and will have the management
capacity and the capacity to implement the policies required for the purpose.  Under this
organization plan, the Ministry of Health will fulfill the essential function of making sure that the
supply of services does not become fragmented and scattered, and that the regional, hierarchical
system is operating smoothly.
By the end of this period, all federal funding should be automatically transferred to
municipalities, which will be directly responsible for supplying services to the people, and
secondarily to states, so that they can perform their functions of coordinating the system and take
action to ensure equal access and quality services. The allocation of these resources will be based
on an integrated financial and physical program determined in the interinstitutional forums.
By using various incentives, and especially financing arrangements, the Health Ministry
will try to systematically raise fee levels for all health care services and activities that show
unquestionable proof of being effective, and it will give priority to those that are recognized to be
most cost-effective, based on their history of cost-of-living adjustments, average national costs in
comparison with others, or on the fact that they have been given priority in programs for



79
determining the general budgets of states and municipalities. Thus, in the course of the next ten
years, the supply profile will be redesigned, with an increase in effective and cost-effective
services, to the detriment of those that have not proven to be so.
Activities under the REFORSUS Project, especially if they continue throughout the
decade, will make it possible to halt the steady deterioration of the physical infrastructure and
correct the critical shortcomings in management, while reducing fraud to a minimum and
guaranteeing acceptable quality standards for health care services. In the short and medium term,
when the legislature passes the proposed constitutional amendment, which is already being
discussed by the National Congress, there should be stable and regular sources of a viable amount
of funding for the SUS.
In summary, by 2005 the SUS should be operating on the basis of universality, with an
equitable allocation of resources, and full decentralization of management functions. The sources,
flows, and amounts of resources should be enough to ensure adequate remuneration for the
services provided, and especially for those procedures that were selected to be given priority.
It is in this context and with these prospects in mind that this project has been prepared,
for the purpose of improving the physical infrastructure of the health care system, and the
efficiency, management, and quality of the health care system financed by the government and
directed on a priority basis to provide care for the most vulnerable segments of our population.
I am looking forward to receiving your cooperation.
Very truly yours,
ADIB JATENE
Health Minister



80
Attachment to the Health Policy Letter dated May 7, 1996
Objectives                November 30, 1997                       November 30, 1998
Ensure adequate           Implement, depending on budgetary and    Implement, depending on budgetary and financial
compensation to hiealth care  financial sustainability, new fee schedules   sustainability, new fee schedules covering the full cost of
providers                 covering the full cost of the most cost-  the most cost-effective procedures--Priority I *;
effective procedures--Priority No. 1*,-  75-85% of the cost of Priority 2 procedures (contingent on
75-85% of costs for Priority 2 procedures  financial sustainability); or adjustment of fees for other
(contingent on financial sustainability); or   procedures, based on inflation.
an adjustment of fees for other procedures,
based on inflation.
Protect the system from   Agree with Banks on procedures to be    Evaluation agreed between MS and Banks as to financial
future deterioration      included on priority lists Nos. I, 2, and 3    sustainability of SUS for 1998 and as to budget execution
Evaluation agreed between MS and Banks  for 1997 and the first 9 months of 1998.
as to the financial sustainability of SUS for
1998 and the 1996 budget cxecultion and
execution for the first 9 months of 1997.
Reduce fraud and increase    Audit System introduced in 8 states and  Audit system introduced in 12 states and 400
the quality of health care  150 municipalities.                   municipalities.
Satisfactory annual report on fraud control. Satisfactory annual report on fraud control
Improve equity in allocation  Review of 30% of federal funds going to    Review of 60% of federal funds going to states and
of resources              states and municipalities as global transfers  municipalities as global transfers.
* Already agreed by the government and the Banks (World Bank and IDB).



81
Annex K
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
K. ORGANIZATION OF HEALTH CARE IN BRAZIL I AND 2
1.    Brazil's Unified Health System (SUS), which is the sole source of care for 110
million Brazilians, is unique in Latin America and more comparable to the model of
Canada and several European countries: (a) coverage is universal, (b) health benefits are
all-inclusive and free at the time of use; (c) financing comes mostly from general taxation
and subsidizes the poor, (d) funds are allocated to states and municipalities on the basis of
prospective global health budgets; (e) most care is delivered by private providers who
compete for patients, (f) ownership and administration of public services is decentralized
to municipalities and states, and (g) providers are reimbursed on the basis of production
(diagnosis-related groups for hospitals, and capitation for ambulatory care). Private health
insurance plays a significant complementary role for about 24 million people (16 percent
of the population).
2.     The supply of health services inputs in Brazil compares well with international
standards. With 30 hospital beds and 14.2 physicians per 10,000 population, Brazil
compares favorably with the average for Latin America and other middle-income
countries. Yet, the ratio of hospital beds per inhabitant declined by almost 14 percent
during the 1980s. The country has a relative scarcity of nurses, with a 3.7 doctor/nurse
ratio. The distribution of health services and professionals in the various regions is very
unequal, being concentrated in the most developed regions and in state capitals. Public
hospital beds are distributed evenly across the country, ranging from 0.7 beds per 1,000
population in the South to 0.9 beds per 1,000 in the North. However, there is a shortage
of private sector supply in the North and Northeast.
3.    The provision of public health services is organized under the Unified Health
System (SUS) which integrates the public health network with the private for-profit and
non-profit networks from which the Government purchases public health services. These
services represent about 70 percent of total health services provided in Brazil. The
balance of 30 percent is supplied by the private for-profit network that does not contract
with the Government and serves patients who are privately insured or pay out of pocket.
Patients are free to choose between public and private providers contracted by the SUS.
1 Mendes E.V.: Comentarios sobre Financiamento e Gastos em Saiude no Brazil, in: Vianna, S.M. et al: 0
Financiamento da Sadde no Brazil, (Brasilia: OPAS, Serie Economia e Financiamento No.4, 1994).
2 Aiyer, Jamison and Londoflo: Health Policy in Latin America: Progress, Problems and Policy Options.
Cuademos de Economia 32 (1995), pp 11-28.



82
Box I: Characteristics of the Unified Health System (SUS) Today,
Flnancing     Financing is primarily public and subsidizes the poor
Care financed by the Unified Health System (SUS) is free to patients, so poor are not
discriminated against; rationing is not accomplished through prices
Private health insurance is allowed and flourishing, but people who pay social scudity
taxes to support health care are not allowed to divert that money to private insurers
Health care costs are contained by caps on the number of admissions to hospitals aild
ceilings on ambulatory care budgets
Hospitals are reimbursed on the basis of diagnostic related groups so that revenue is tid
to production and not to a historical budget; ambulatory services are paid on the basis of
capitation
Funding for recurrent costs is apportioned among the states and municipiities,.
proportionally to population
Investment decisions are based on agreements between the MoH and individual:sates
and municipalities
Competition   Care is delivered primarily by private providers; many of these are non-profit whick:
provide care almost exclusively to SUS patients under contract with the government
Patients are free to choose among public and private providers
Regulation    Private insurers are not regulated and use adverse selection and disenrollment
Quality of care provided by the provided by the private sector is not monitored o
controlled, even when it is paid by SUS
Auditing and governance control for both private and public providers is embryonic:
Autonomy      Ownership and responsibility of public health facilities has been transferred to:
municipalities and states; the Federal government only manages a dozen hospitals.
Municipalities and states are gaining increasing health sector planning, administwaive
and financial autonomy, including the capacity to act as purchasers of health care:
Management  Public health service management is generally centralized and poor
Hospitals often lack basic management systems, such as cost-accounting
Coverage      Universal; free of charge; all inclusive benefit package; in reality, rationing is applied:
through caps on admissions and budget ceilings
4.     The private sector plays an important role in the providing services to SUS. In
1994, it accounted for 79 percent of hospital beds in the SUS, 83 percent of publicly
funded hospital admissions, and 87 percent of hospital reimbursements. The private sector
also accounted for 43 percent of publicly funded ambulatory procedures and 73 percent of
all ambulatory reimbursements. Within the private sector, the for profit/charity ratio is
about 4/3, both in the hospital and in the ambulatory sectors. University hospitals deliver
10 percent of all admissions and 5 percent of ambulatory procedures, and absorb 21
percent and 8 percent of the respective reimbursements.  The balance of services is
supplied by public hospitals. Primary health care services are owned and managed by
municipalities or states.
5.     The Ministry of Health (MoH) is responsible for policy and standards, financing,
overall planning and coordination, epidemiological surveillance, quality assurance,
monitoring and control, and auditing. The MoH has few responsibilities in direct health
care provision. With the exception hospitals and health services of the of all National
Health Foundation (FUNASA), most public hospitals and ambulatory services were
transferred to the states and municipalities after 1988. Now, the MoH only owns and
manages the health services of the Federal District and another dozen tertiary hospitals,
most of them located in Rio de Janeiro. The Ministry of Education directly owns and
manages a significant number of federal university hospitals. The MoH executes several



83
vertical programs through its specialized agencies including: (a) the National Health
Foundation -- FUNASA (sanitation and communicable disease control); (b) the Central
Drug procurement agency -- CEME (procurement, production and control of
pharmaceuticals); (c) the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation -- FIOCRUZ (post-graduate
education, research and development, and vaccine production); and (d) the National
Institute of Food and Nutrition -- INAN. The scope of MoH activities also includes
environmnent, occupational health, food and drug administration, blood and immune
products, and border control. Since 1982, successive administrations have decentralized
both responsibilities and resources to municipalities and, to a lesser degree, to states. At
present, about 2,000 of the 5,000 Brazilian municipalities have some degree of autonomy
in health care administration.
6.     State Health Secretariats have a relatively small and ill-defined role, being
situated between a strong Federal MoH and the municipal health secretariats. States are
nominally responsible for: (a) planning, supervising, and evaluating health service delivery
in their geographic areas; (b) coordinating and providing technical assistance to
municipalities, (c) managing some tertiary referral centers and public health laboratories;
and (d) managing public health reimbursement funds for small municipalities that have
minimal autonomy. Many functions are ill-defined or overlap with those of the MoH and
the municipalities. In addition, there are hardly any hierarchical relationships between
states and municipalities, with the latter tending to relate more directly to the Federal
level.
7.     The real beneficiaries of decentralization have been the municipalities. Municipal
Health Secretariats are responsible for planning, organizing, and managing public health
care delivery in their jurisdiction. In addition, they can authorize hospital admissions and
ambulatory expenditures as well as contract private providers to deliver the care not
provided by the public network. When necessary, they can also form intermunicipal
consortia3 to pool resources and better manage patient flows. Although municipalities
have the capacity to authorize hospital admissions and ambulatory services, up to pre-
defined ceilings, the responsibility for expenditures remains mostly with the Federal
Government who pays the providers directly. Larger and better-managed municipalities
with advanced autonomy can be entrusted with general public health functions such as
communicable disease control.
8.     Degrees of Decentralization.  States and Municipalities are granted different
levels of autonomy in accordance with their ability to manage, plan, and deliver health care
activities. In ascending order, there are four levels of autonomy, as follows:
3 An intermunicipal consortium is an innovative idea that consists of regrouping several municipalities
to create a critical mass of health care facilities embodying, for example, one tertiary-level university
hospital, 2-3 secondary or regional hospitals, and sevcral health centers and posts. The main advantages
of the consortium are that: (i) it achieves economies of scale through the joint purchase of some key
inputs; (ii) it can organize a meaningful reference system; and (iii) it improves the efficiency of the system
by separating the financing (by the consortium) from the delivery of services (by individual facilities that
would sell services to the consortium), and allowing the Federal and State levels to deal with a limited
number of entities (the consortia) rather than a multitude of municipalities or individual facilities.



84
(a)    minimal autonomy (gestio incipiente):  municipalities start managing
public ambulatory facilities and accrediting private facilities to provide services under the
SUS. They can authorize hospital admissions and ambulatory expenditures, but have no
control over the reimbursement funds which are transferred directly from the Federal level
to the provider. In 1994, there were about 950 municipalities with this type of autonomy,
out of a total of 5,000 municipalities in the country; in 1995, the Government raised the
number to 2,000;
(b)    partial autonomy (gestao parcial): as above, but municipalities can (i)
decide on the mix of health services they want to purchase and from which suppliers
(public or private). They receive reimbursement for services provided, and can retain
savings resulting from efficiency gains. In 1994, about 400 municipalities had partial
autonomy; in 1995, the number increased to 600 and all states were granted partial
autonomy;
(c)    advanced autonomy (gestao semi-plena): states and municipalities are
full managers of the SUS in their jurisdiction, including both hospitals and ambulatory
services. They assume responsibility for essential public health services such as nutrition,
health education, epidemiological surveillance, and occupational health. They receive a
prospective health sector block grant to be managed together with their own funds (to
benefit from such autonomy, states and municipalities have to allocate at least 10 percent
of their budget to the health sector). In 1994, 11 municipalities had advanced autonomy;
in 1995, the number increased to 44. Four states have been granted advanced autonomy;
(d)   full autonomy (gestao plena):  in addition to the responsibilities under
advanced autonomy, states and municipalities would be responsible for carrying out all
public health responsibilities that are now under the Federal specialized agencies, such as
the National Health Foundation. No state or municipality at present has such a level of
autonomy.
Financing of Health Care 4 and 5
9.    The 1988 Brazilian Constitution created a Social Security Budget (SSB) to
finance health, social assistance, social security and unemployment benefits. Funds were
not earmarked for these various programs. For the health sector, annual complementary
health and budget legislation were defined as the criteria for funds allocation. During
Constitution negotiations, however, a transitory legislation established that 30 percent of
the Social Security Budget would be allocated to the health sector until further specific
legislation is approved. This allocation was honored for two years but declined later
because of the pressure to finance pensions, down to a zero contribution in 1994.
4Medici, A.C.: Economia e Financiamento do Setor Sauide no Brazil (Sao Paulo: Faculdade de Sauide
Puiblica, Universidade de Sao Paulo, 1994).
5 Medici, A.C. Public Health Expenditure Review (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, Mimeograph,
1995)



85
10.    SSB's revenues originate from
a mix of social contributions and
MoH's Revenue Sources -1995
treasury revenues. The contributions
come from sources: (a) employee and
FSE       GTS       OTHERS          employer social security contributions;
11.4    109%6.6%                       tx   o
(b) tax  on  businesses' output -
CSLP                                        COFINS;6 (c) tax on businesses' net
17.4%                                       profits -  CSLP; (d) other smaller
sources (Social Integration Program
53.8 %        -   PIS  and  Civil Servants  Asset
Creation Program - PASEP). For
1995, most of the money to fund the
MoH's budget will come from
mandatory business contributions -- COFINS and CSLP, together, they correspond to
65.2 percent of the MoH's budget. The Emergency Social Fund (FSE) and government's
revenues from bond market operations (GB) will contribute with another 11.4 and 10.8
percent of the Ministry's budget.
11.    Brazil's health care system relies heavily on public reimbursement of privately
provided services. The system relies on two methods of payment: AIHs/SIHs (hospital
authorization and payment system) for the payment of hospitals, and UCAs/SLAs
(outpatient coverage and payment system) for the payment of ambulatory services. Most
federal funds are transferred directly to providers. The AIH system is a payment system
similar to the US Medicare system of diagnosis-related groups (DRGs). Hospitals receive
a lump-sum amount covering all services per case or episode of illness. The payment units
are set according to a list of fixed prices based on costs modified by certain patient
characteristics and illness severity factors that influence costs. University hospitals receive
an additional 50 percent to compensate for the extra costs of training and research and to
cover for the great number of severe cases. However, the Government has failed to make
good estimates of health care costs and has therefore been forced to set the price of
different SIHs on the basis of political negotiations and the relative strength of different
interest groups.  Public and private providers collect the same reimbursement for
equivalent SIHs and ambulatory procedures, but public hospitals have a huge advantage
since salaries are paid directly by municipalities, states, or the Federal government.
12.   A number of hospital admission authorizations (SIHs) are transferred to states and
municipalities. In 1995, each state could authorize hospitalizations up to a number equal
to 9 percent of its population. This ceiling had been reduced earlier that year, from 10
percent of the population, when the Government established severe cost-containment and
rationing measures, including the establishment of global budgets for states and
municipalities. In 1996, the GoB plans to limit the number of hospital admissions even
6The collection of these contributions has been very inefficient. IPEA estimates that, in 1992. the level of
evasion to the COFINS contribution was around 76 percent. The end of the hyperinflation period led
to a sharp improvement in the collection of COFINS and CSLP contributions, but not in the revenues
from payroll deductions.



86
further, to 8 per 100 population, a significant 20 percent reduction from the 1994 values
and a rate of admissions which is much lower than the average for a country with
demographic profile such as that of Brazil (10-12 admission per 100 population per year).
13.   Public funds for investment in rehabilitation and equipment are transferred to
States as UCRs (Network Rehabilitation Units), in an amount equivalent to 1-5 percent
of the sum received in UCAs. Such funds, which should be transferred automatically on
the basis of transparent criteria, have been allocated on the basis of individual agreements
between the Minister of Health and State Governors or Municipal Mayors. Municipalities
that are willing to allocate 10 percent of their budget to the health sector and are willing to
comply with the other legal requirements for autonomy receive an Incentive to
Municipalization equivalent to 5 percent of their UCA allocation. Many municipalities,
however, have difficulties in allocating 10 percent of their revenues to the health sector
and, therefore, the number of municipalities benefiting from UCRs is relatively small.
14.   Over the years, the value of AlHs and UCAs has sharply declined because of
inflation and lack of adequate price adjustment. Presently, it is estimated that they cover
no more than 40 to 50 percent of real costs. Between 1991 and 1992, the average price of
an AIH fell from US$306 to US$180. Furthermore, the deterioration of prices has been
uneven across procedures and diagnosis. This distortion affects the reimbursement of
essential clinical and public health services, while less cost-effective tertiary care has been
relatively more protected. In addition, it provides a perverse cross-subsidy since the upper
and the upper middle class use costly tertiary care disproportionately.
15.   The deterioration of prices has led hospitals and other providers to adopt several
strategies to stay in business. They tend to: (a) postpone investments in rehabilitation and
equipment; (b) cut maintenance; (c) request illegal co-payments from patients; (d) tinker
fraudulently with patient diagnosis to maximize reimbursement; (c) request more than one
AIH  reimbursement for each admission; and (d) falsify admissions.  Though the
Government has a good information system to detect fraud, it has been unable to enforce
the law. The GoB fears that enforcing the law without adequate reimbursements would
cause massive closings and service disruption. This is a key issue for the viability of the
project and would be at the heart of the reform to be supported by the project.
16.   In addition to the SUS system, the private health insurance sector plays a
significant complementary role in the financing and delivery of health services. In
1987, 24 million people were covered by one of the several schemes provided under
private health insurance, which represented then a US$1.9 billion industry; in 1994, it
already covered 38 million people (54 percent increase) and represented a US$6.6 billion
industry (a 260 percent increase). The rapid growth of private health care insurance can
explained by several factors: (a) the quality of care offered by the public system declined
sharply due to years of underfinancing; (b) large companies, often with a oligopolistic
market position, were able to pass the costs of employee health insurance over to prices,
and ultimately to consumers; (c) families got tax breaks for every dollar spent in private



87
health insurance; and (d) extreme social stratification offered health insurers opportunities
to tailor their products to different groups, including highly lucrative upscale schemes.
15.   Complementary insurance schemes, which are poorly regulated and monitored,
include group medicine, medical cooperatives, private health insurance, and company-
based health services.  Group medicine systems and company-based systems are the
largest private operators both in terms of coverage and revenues. Private insurance
systems are the fastest growing group. Prices of private insurance schemes are far higher
than those charged under the SUS. This happens despite the fact that most systems do not
offer comprehensive coverage: (a) coverage often does not include prevention, chronic
diseases and catastrophic expenses, and (b) high-risk or sick applicants or members are
often rejected or excluded, respectively. Company-based systems are the most expensive
at US$250 per person covered per year, followed by medical cooperatives at US$206.
Private health insurance and group medicine systems offer the cheapest private health care
coverage with US$156 and US$131 per person covered per year, respectively.



88
Annex L
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
L. RECOMMENDATIONS ON KEY STRATEGIES FOR THE SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM
.....        .N              ....      .  ..                                          t   t   n...........       ........... ...
Consolidating lnstitutional   Set up a commission with representation from all three levels of government  Develop proposals for better defining  federal, state and
Reforms                   and informed citizens to debate the issue, and propose revisions to Congress   municipal roles, emphastzing state flexibility in adapting federall
and the federal government. The National Health Council could assist the guidelines in the organization and delivery of care.l
process. Issues include: flexibility of SUS to meet different needs given
Brazil's heterogeneous slates; necessary roles across federal states and Ensure transparent and consistent fiscal transfers from thel
municipal govers.nments; balancing access and resources and reflecting,  federal government to states and municipalities.
Design system for assisting states to experiment with alternative structures for
delivering, financing, and regulating health care within their border under
__________________ SU'S, including municipal-state relationships.l
Policy Formulation        Establish a health policy office in the Ministry of Health with responsibility   Establish a system  for financing health services research,
Capacity                  for identifying key policy issues in health, with input from experts from   following the recommendations of the conmmittee, relying onl
outside the MoB. The MoH Departmnent of Planning could take on this  competition and external review in selecting researcher.
effort, if they expanded their activities.
Establish specific oversight committee for policy research withl
Establish an inter-disciplinary committee under the leadership of the MoH,  federal, state, municipal, university and professional association
with health researchers and administrators to: determnine how to best identify,  representation.
finance and disseminate health policy research in Brazil; and, draw up a
policy research agenda with and for the health policy office  A sub-group of  Build congressional support and encourage a line item in the
the National Health Council with other input would be appropriate.   budget for health services research
Initiate with 1BGE and others a health demand survey to determine where
patients seek care, where they obtain it, who pays for it, and how much they
__________...            . pay  out  of-pocket...                ...  ...   ...  ..    ....                    ......
Costs and Cost            Initiate a study of service costs an a first step toward establishing policies that  Based on evaluation  of costs and performance, develop
Containment               match budgets and prionrty investments,                              incentives and oversight to promote greater efficiency t service
delivery under reimbursed hospital and anei utatory care.
Establish a standard benefit package for all citizens, coverng prevention and
secondary care, and prioritizing funding for tertiary care services.  Develop a standard cost accounting system for participating
SIH/SUS hospitals to assist their management and monitoring,
Design a comprehensive study to evaluate SIH/SUS and SIAJSUS with  provide training.
regard to costs, cost containment and volume controls, drawing on experience
and expertise from inside and outside the govennment and Brazil. Should   Experiment with co-payments, drawing on the results of the
coordinate with health policy unit,                                  demand survey and experiences in states or municipalities, and
applying income cutoffs to protect the poor.
Design documented experiments to test alternative options for cost and
volume control, and evaluate them critically for policy guidance.    Develop and implant, in cooperation with private inaurance and
provider groups, standard billing forms for public and private
Establish a body to regularly recalculate reimbursement rates for SIHISUS   providers.
finance ad SIAiSUS eminate_halth_polcy_reseach_in_Brail,_and,draw_up_



89
Annex L
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
Recommendations on Key Strategies for the Short and Medium Term
E~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . .   ,--.. R- ..  .   E. i   .. . .   .   . . . .   . . . . . T!--i--T
Enhancing        Establish three external advisory groups for setting standards for  In  conjunction  with  professional  organizations,
Quality          clinical care, administrative and financial services and physical plant  establish quality assurance guidelines, with sufficient
and equipment.                                                 flexibility to allow adaptation by different providers.
lPlace quality on the policy research agenda; finance studies on the  Provide grants to universites  to establish quality
definition of quality and how to obtain quality health services,  assurance training in universities.
considering costs, feasibility and enforcement.
Initiate revision of current federal "quality standards"
Finance methodological and operational studies to develop and test  for their applicability and relevance.
l            ~~~~~various approaches to quality assurance in Brazil.
Establish federal requirements that citizens
participate in quality assessments at the local and
state levels
Improving        In conjunction with professional associations, draw up a federal  Establish a federal licensing exam for physicians and
Regulations      licensing exam for physicians and nurses.                      nurses to be adapted and used by states. Assist states
in drawing up enforcement arrangements.
Support professional association efforts to accredit medical schools
l            ~~~~through agreements among the federal and state governments, and  Commission a plan for continuing education for health
l            ~~~~professional associations.                                  personnel from professional health associations, and
sponsor meetings with states and professional
]            ~~~~Identify insurance company practices and problems (financial,  associations to develop  a policy on  continuing
.            ~~~~performance) and assess policy options for addressing these.  education.
Establish a public-private commission to develop model regulations Establish federal hospital accreditation standards
for hospitals and clinics that protect the public, and are affordable,  based on the conmmission's recommendations, and
implementable and enforceable by states,                       apply them  in all public and participating private
hospitals. Develop enforcement arrangements with
Evaluate federal, state and municipal enforcement of existing  states and municipalities.
regulations to determine strengths, weaknesses and gaps
l                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Establish model regulations for inlsurance companies,
l                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and assist states develop state regulations and
enforcement.
Reference: Health Care Financing. Organizattion, and Deliverv in Brazil
( Report No. 12655-BR, World Bank, June 1994).



90
Annex M
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
M. IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT ACTIONS: PRIVATE SECTOR AND SOCIAL
SERVICES
POLICY RECOMMENDATION                           GOVERNMENT ACTION
A Utilization of matching federal grants   * Review the allocation of federal funds to states and
to encourage private, individual,     municipalities based on population, income and health
community and business contributions to   indicators
establish or expand social programs such   * Review of tax breaks
as health clinics
B Establishment of new methods for    * Create the National Audit System for the SUS
measuring accountability through output   * Activate the National Commission for Health Quality
measures                              Control
l  Establish an independent institution for the accreditation
of hospitals
C Prioritizing the utilization of non-profit  * Promote the contracting of family health cooperatives,
institutions in the production and delivery  community-based organizations and NGOs by family health
of health services                    programs
D Strengthen social sector's ability to  * Create or activate the institutions mentioned in B
establish and enforce regulations     * Expand the number of states and municipalities with
partial, advanced and full autonomy
* Provide the Federal Tripartite and State Committees with
the authority to manage hospital and ambulatory care's
recurrent and investment budgets
l  Introduce, on a pilot basis, in states and municipalities
with advanced autonomy local competitive bidding or local
shopping requirements for health care contracts
E Bolster private information groups that  * Disseminate information on quality of care and costs
are beginning to form to gain their  financed under the project
assistance in informing the public about    * Support the development of Integrated Health Systems
social services                       * Require that health providers make available to their
patients descriptive bills to assure them control over what is
being charged to them and to the System
F Promote moves toward greater self-  * Establish hospital boards with autonomy to create their
regulation in the public and private sector  own internal incentives and quality information systems
* Grant greater financial and responsibility autonomy to
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   Federal hospitals
Reference: Private Sector and Social Services in Brazil
(Report No. 13205-BR, World Bank, June 1994).



91
Annex N
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
N. LIST OF PRIORITY 1 INTERVENTIONS TO BE FINANCED BY THE SUS
Group 1. Basic Benefits Package
Essential immunizations: polio, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, TB and measles
Other immunizations: rabies, hepatitis, rubella, meningitis
Sanitary inspection visits
Activities delivered by community health workers
Normal delivery at home
Home visit by nurse or nurse auxiliary
General medical consultation
Professionally attended delivery outside of a health care institution,
Ambulatory care for emergencies and trauma
Health Education
Ambulatory small surgery
Ambulatory ENT surgery
Collective preventive interventions: fluoride applications, oral hygiene, health education, and
epidemiological studies)
Preventive dentistry
Preventive dental surgery
Group II. Prenatal and Delivery Care
Normal Delivery
Assisted Delivery
Complicated Delivery with eclampsia
Care of the newborn
Caesarian section
Surgery for ectopic pregnancy
Treatment of uterine inversion
Group m. Other critical interventions
Peritoneal and renal dialysis
Other, to be defined on the basis of improving the quality of care.
NB: This list is preliminary, and will reviewed in November 1997, after a burden of disease and a cost-
effectiveness study have been carried out.



92
Annex 0
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
0. ALLOCATION OF REFORSUS INVESTMENT CEILINGS BY STATE
1.    REFORSUS  will finance  investments under a decentralized, competitive
arrangement in which states, municipalities and philanthropic providers submit proposals
for sub-projects. This procedure runs the risk that some states, with a greater capacity to
generate proposals, would end up getting too large a share of the funds, leaving too little
for states which were slower to submit proposals. To avoid this, the total fund available
for investment will be pre-allocated among the states, establishing an initial ceiling for each
state. A state will not automatically receive that much money; instead the ceiling will
reserve those funds to be invested if there are enough acceptable sub-project proposals to
absorb them. If the ceiling for a particular state is not reached during the life of the
project, despite technical assistance from the Ministry in preparing sub-projects, the
unused funds can be reallocated to other states which still have acceptable proposals
pending.
2.    A formula for the state-by-state pre-allocation of funds has been agreed. This
formula:
(a)    Allocates not less than half the total investment fund in proportion to
population, in order to be consistent with the rule that at least 50 percent of recurrent SUS
expenditures be allocated by population;
(b)    Takes into account, in order to allocate the rest of the funds not strictly
proportional to population, one or more variables associated with greater needs for
investment, such as health status, poverty, or the current pattern of SUS expenditure; and
(c)   Is transpare'nt and easy to explain and justify to state and municipal
officials, directors of health facilities, and the public.
3.    The first two of these requirements are satisfied by the general class of formulas
Fe/F = a(Pe/P) + (1-a)(Xe/X), where
e refers to a particular state (estado)
F is the investment fund to be pre-allocated
P is population



93
a is a parameter to be chosen, subject to the restriction that it be less than 1.0 and
greater than or equal to 0.5 (1 > a > 0.5), and
X is an indicator of need for additional investment (beyond that associated with
population alone), which may be a single variable or a function of several variables..
4.    In order for the formula never to take away from  a state, part of the ceiling
distributed according to population, Xe must be non-negative. A zero value implies that
the state gets no more funds than it is entitled to on the basis of population alone--that is,
it is already a favored state. In addition, in order for the formula to allocate all of F
exactly, without further adjustment, it is necessary for X to be the sum of the Xe across all
the states, just as P is the sum of the state populations, Pe. With this condition, summing
the formula across states yields
F = aP + (1-a)X,
so that a is exactly the share of the total fund allocated according to population,
and (1-a) is the share allocated according to X. The restriction that the Xe add up to total
X means that X cannot he a ratio or other non-linear function of whatever variables are
used to compose it. (Ratios can nonetheless be used in the constructiotn of X.)
5.     To satisfy the third requirement, that the formula be comprehensible and politically
acceptable, imposes other, less exact, restrictions on the indicator X. It must be based on
variables that can be measured without ambiguity, and it should not involve any
complicated calculations.
6.     The Ministry thinks that X should be based on SUS recurrent expenditures (G for
gasto ), because:
(a)    It is under the Ministry's control
(b)    Expenditure should already bear some relation to other variables which
might be used to construct X, such as the prevalence of poverty in the state or the size and
nature of the burden of disease,
(c)    Data on expenditure by state are unambiguous and publicly available; and
(d)    Since state officials are always likely to claim that their state does not get
enough funds, what is needed is simply a measure of what is "enough".
7.     Discussion among the Ministry, the Inter-American Development Bank and the
World Bank ended with agreement on the following construction of the indicator X:
8.     First, per capita expenditure Ge/Pe is calculated in each state. The highest value is
denoted (G/P)m.  (m  indicates the state where the ratio is maximal--it does not
necessarily mean the state with the highest expenditure or the highest population.  m



94
happens at present to refer to Parana; per capita expenditure is only slightly lower in Sao
Paulo.)
9.    Next, the ratio (G/P)m is multiplied by Pe, the population of state e: this creates
the variable
Gem =(GJP)m(Pe)
which is what expenditure in state e would be if per capita spending there were as
high as in the state with the most expenditure per person--for example, how much SUS
would spend in Para if the expenditure per head in that state were the same as in Parana.
The sum of the Gem over all the states is denoted Gm: it is the amount that would be
spent in all of Brazil if the per capita expenditure were everywhere as high as in Parana.
Then actual expenditure Ge is subtracted from this estimate of maximal
expenditure to yield
Xe = Gem - Ge
which means that Xe can be interpreted as a kind of "gap" or shortfall of
expenditure in state e compared to state m. Clearly,
Xm = 0 (State m, being the most favored already, has no shortfall to make up and
therefore is not entitled to any more investment funds than are distributed according to
population alone);
Xe> 0 for every other state e (So no state has any money taken away, that was
already assigned according to population); and
The sum of the Xe is equal to X, which is the total shortfall in the whole country,
or the amount of additional expenditure that would be needed in order to raise per capita
spending everywhere to the level in the state (Parana) where it is highest now.
10.   The final formula is then
Fe/F = a(Pe/P) + (1-a)(Gem - Ge)/(Gm - G)
I.   Several possible complications to this formula were received. For example, the
need for medical care is not simply proportional to population but depends on the age
distribution, so it is arguable that Pe should somehow be adjusted for age composition.
However, this would make the formula for investment allocation differ from the pure
population basis on which part of recurrent spending is assigned. And since there is no
one way to "adjust" for age distribution, this would cause more argument over the formula
and make it harder to accept politically. Similarly, Ge might be complicated by including
state or municipal as well as federal expenditures, or in other ways. But that would take
the variable out of the control of the Ministry, would make it less transparent, and might



95
even create a perverse incentive for a state to spend less of its own resources in order to
claim a larger share of the REFORSUS investment funds. None of the possible subtleties
or complications to the formula appeared to improve it sufficiently in technical terms, to
justify the consequent ambiguities and political difficulties.
12.   The parameter a is necessarily arbitrary, since the only requirement is that it lie
between 0.5 and 1.0 The Banks and the Ministry agreed that it should fall somewhere in
the middle of that range, so that Xe, the expenditure-related indicator, can actually have
some impact on the allocation of funds, but not so much as to make the allocation depart
greatly from proportionality to population. A value of a = 0.7 appears satisfactory: 70
percent of the ceiling allocated according to population and 30 percent according to
expenditure shortfall.
13.   The calculated the ceilings resulting from this formula are:
Ar  Te ::tal :Percent P/aipitf
Acre                          2.40      0.44      5.3
Alagoas                      11.70      2.17      4.3
Amazona                      11.20      2.08      4.9
Amapa                         1.80      0.33      5.5
Bahia                        60.00     11.12      4.8
Ceara                        24.80      4.60      3.7
Dist Federal                  5.00      0.93      2.9
Esp Santo                    12.30      2.28      4.4
Goias                        14.60      2.71      3.4
Maranhao                     21.10      3.91      4.0
Minas Gerais                 54.60     10.12      3.3
Mato Gr do Sul                7.50      1.39      3.9
Mato Grosso                   9.30      1.72      4.0
Para                         29.00      5.37      5.3
Paraiba                      12.30      2.28      3.7
Pernambuco                   27.70      5.13      3.7
Piaui                        10.10      1.87      3.7
Parana                       21.10      3.91      2.4
Rio de Janeiro               39.00      7.23      2.9
Rio Gr do Norte              11.10      2.06      4.3
Rondonia                      6.60      1.22      4.9
Roraima                       1.30      0.24      5.0
Rio Gr do Sul                29.30      5.43      3.1
Santa Catarina               18.00      3.34      3.7
Sergipe                       7.50      1.39      4.7
Sao Paulo                    86.00     15.93      2.6
Tocantins                     4.40      0.82      4.4
T'otal                      ~3  .      ..  .Q O .3 ............



96
Annex P
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
P. COUNTRY AND HEALTH INDICATORS
Indicator                                             Value  Year   Source
Country and Income Data
Area (000 KM2)                                     8,512   1993    WDR 95
GNP per capita (US$)                               2,930   1993    WDR 95
Population Indicators
Population (millions)                              156     1993    WDR 95
of which urban (percent)                       71       1993    WDR 95
Population growth rate (percent)                   1.6     93-00   WDR 95
Life expectancy at birth (years)                   67      1993    WDR 95
Health Care Indicators
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)            7       1993    WDR 95
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)      57      1993    WDR 95
Reproductive Health
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 births)     140      1988    WDR 94
Share of women who are of childbearing age
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)          24       1993    WDR 95
Fertility rate (births per women)                2.8      1993    WDR 95
Contraceptive prevalence (share of females 15-49)
Urban
Rural
Immunization (under I yr., % of age group):
Measles                                         83      1992    SID 95
Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus.              75      1992    SID 95
Total health expenditures as percent of GDP
Health expenditure as percent of Government spending'  2.8  1990
Health Expenditures in Latin America, Ramesh Govindaray et al, World Bank Technical Paper No. 274,
1995



97
Annex P
Indicator                                             Value  Year   Source
Nutrition Indicators
Low birthweight infants (percent)                  15      1991    WDR 95
Malnourished children under 5 yrs of age (percent)  7     88-93   WDR 95
Stunting, children 24-59 mo. (percent)            29      80-90   WDR 93
Daily caloric intake (percent of recomm. minimum)2  114    1990
Daily protein intake (percent of recomm- minimum)3  62     mre    SID 92
Environmental Health
Access to safe water (percent of population)
Urban                                          99.8    1991    SID 95
Rural                                          85.7    1991    SID 95
Access to sanitation (percent of population)4     67.1    1991   (c)
2 The State of the World's Children 1993, UNICEF.
3Most recent estimate.
4 Human Development Report 1993, UNDP.



98
BRAZIL
tlealth Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
Q. SUPPORTING ITABLES AND CIIARTS
Ministry of Health: 1995 Approved Budget and 1996 Proposed Budget
Categories             Approved      Budget    Proposed      Budget    Mon etary     Relative    Budget
Budget- 1995  Allocatiofn  Budget -1996 Allocatiorn   Variationi    Vanationi    111crease
1995                    1996    1995 -1996  1995 - 1996 1995 - 1996
_~~~~~~~~~ _ ___ __ ____ , __ ____                                                            _-____
General Items                     4,208,298,792  30.19%    4,780,778,406  21.12%  572,479,614   13.60%       6.59%
Personnel (Active & Inactive)     2,700,846,346  19.38%    4,138,012,942  18.28%   1,437,166,596   53.21%   16.53%
Amoilization and Debt Service     1,507,452,446  10 810%   642,765 464   2 84%    -864.686,982  -57 36%     -9 95%
National Health Fund              7,753,632,891  55.62%   12 ,473,013,047  55.11%   4,719,380,156   60.87%  54.29%
Milk Piograin                      162,181,073   1 16%/c   450,000,000   1 99%    287,818,927   177 47%     3 31%
Central Regional Administration     50,238,720   0 36%      55,000,000  J 24%       4,761,280   9 48%       0.05%
Public Hospitals                   339,349,865  2 43%      397,000,000   1.75%     57,650,135   16 99%      0.66%
Inca                                51,840,000  0 37%       84,479,750  0.37"'a    32,639,750   62.96%      0 38%
G H C                              117,246,491   0.84%     156,000,000   0 69%     38,753,509   33 05%      0 45%
Social Pionieers                   115,248,000  0.83%      309,449,000   1.37%    194,201,000  168 51%      2.23%
Community Campaign                  14,613,170  0 10%       50,000,000  0.22%      35,386,830  242.16%      0 410%
Blood and Hemo-Related Programs     20,775,151   0.15%      36,790,300  0.16%      16,015,149   77.09%      0 18%
Other Programs                      66,889,855  0.48%       47,844,020  0 21%      -19,045,835  -28.47%     -0.22%
AIDS/ NE - I e 11                  360,065,591   2.58%     261,050,000   1 15%    -99,015,591  -27 50%      -1.14%
AIH/ RCA                          6,048,000,000  43 39%    9,840,000,000  43 48%   3,792,000,000   62.70%   43 62%
Sanitation Surveillance             58,202,379  0.42%       60,814,750  0.27%       2,612,371    449%       0.03%
Participation in Intl Organiz.      14,652,000  0 11%       13,031,000  0 06%      -1,621,000  -11.06%      -0 02%
Re-equipment of SUS/ MS Unit       178,753,935   1 28%     566,074,499  2.50%     387,320,564   216.68%     4.46%
Contributions to Public Servants   155,576,661   1.12%     145,479,728  0.64%     -10,096,933   -6.49%      -0.12%            >
National Health Foundation        1,042,211,851  7.48%    3,922,046,408  17.33%   2,879,834,557  276.32%    33.13%            1
Maintenance of Owned Units         131,382,587  0.94%      205,747,923  0.91%      74,365,336   56.60%      0.86%             x
Central & Regional Administration  106,565,690  0.76%      181,463,475  0.80%      74,897,785   70.28%       0.86% /



99
Ministry of Health: 1995 Approved Budget and 1996 Proposed Budge (cont.)
Categories             Approved      Bu}get    Proposed      Budget    Monetary      Relative     Budget
Budget - 1995  Allocation  Budget - 1996  Allocation    Variation  Variation    Inciease
1995                    1996    1995 - 1996  1995 - 1996  Distribution
1995 -1996
Vaccines and Vaccination           171,810,148   1.23%     262,394,347   1.16%      90,584,199   52.72%      1.04%
|Endemic dis and Malaria control   112,845,810  0.81%       30,638,580   0 14%     -82,207,230   -72.85%     -0 95%
Programns (Banik funded)
Control of Endemic Diseases        168,177,603   1 21U/o   493,995,020   2 18%     325,217,417   192.69%     3.74%O
Basic Sanitation                    90,740,404   0.65%    1,956,408,000   8 64   1,865,667,596  2056 05%     21 46%
Contributions to Public Servants    64,597,803   0.46%      91,695,461   0 41%      27,097,658   41.95%      0.31%
Other Programs                     195,491,806   1 40%     699,703,602   3 09%     504,211,796   257.92%   |  5.80%
Osvaldo Cruz Foundation            171,359,056   1.23%     194,382,400   0.86%      23,023,344   13.44%   !0.26%
Administrative Maintenance          58,124,939   0.42%       78,000,000   0.34%     19,875,061   34.19%      0 23%
Operational Unit Maintenance         1,454,400  0.01%        2,502,400   0.01%       1,048,000   72.06% I  0.01%
Reequipmenit ...                    28,800,000   0 21%      20,000,000   0.09%      -8,800,000   -30.56%   1  -0 10%
Vaccine Productioni                 30,303,335   0. 22%     21,600,000   0.10%      -8,703,335   -28.72%     -0 10%
Other Programs                      46,167,582  0 33%       66,000,000   0.29%      19,832,418   42 96%      0.23%
Contributions to Public Servants     6,508,800  0.05%        6,280,000   0.03%        -228,800   -3.52%      0.00%
Central Pharmaceutical Agency      744,082,439   5.34%    1,226,244,000   5.42%    482,161,561   64.80%      5.55%
Admninistrative Maintenance          3,175,696  0.02%         3,816,000   0 02%       640,304   20.16%       0.01%
Re-equip. of Operational Units      12,000,000  0.09%       15,000,000   0.07%       3,000,000   25.00%      0.03%
Acquisition and Distr. of Drugs    712,129,613   5.11%    1,187,147,000   5.25%    475,017,387   66.70%      5.46%
Other Programs                      16,777,130  0.12%       20,281,000   0.09%       3,503,870   20.88%      004%
Nat Food and Nutrition Institute    20,071,523  0.14%       36,452,363   0.16%      16,380,840   81.61%      0.19%
Administrative Maintenance           5,603,495  0.04%         7,000,000   0.03%      1,396,505   24.92%      0.02%
Nutritional Expenditures             7,506,000  0.05%       14,800,000  0.07%        7,294,000   97.18%      0.08%
Other Programs                       6,962,028  0.05%        14,652,363   0.06%      7,690,335   110 46%     0.09%
MoH - GRAND TOTAL                13,939,656,552  100.00%   22,632,916,6241       8,693,260,072   62.36%     100.00%



100
Annex R
BRAZIL
Health Sector Reform Project -- REFORSUS
R. SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES
1.    Public Health Expenditure Review, Andre Medici and Claudio Czapski,
mimeograph, Brasilia, 1995.
2.    Socio-Economic and Financial Analysis, Luisa Escobar, Ricardo Bitran, Philip
Musgrove, mimeograph IDB/World Bank, 1996.
3.    Ministry of Health, REFORSUS Project Coordination Unit, Operational Manual.
Brasilia, May 1996.



IBRD 20444R
~VE NE ZU E LA    _   i             >(FRENC0                                                          '
i        -          ~~~~A.    / SURINAMErGUIANA' ,
C OL O  MB I A r /                        BoocVista (    7     \         
t)         ,^  ~RORAIMA                       I .J           '
t ,/ t tv r . >~~~J                            AMAPA -
L,_rC\tt.A 
.t~~~~~ Mb A  Z 0  N A.                                                                                                    _ 'F?S   ooPso
\&  A  C   R  E  t  PvoelthoO  T  s  <*s- - -s t of kNor \ 4 I Hr;,9=<F_FN, avot RTereinaeCcE Ae
\-'!  RioBrarbco  >  5 RONDONIA  <  j  I     T        -:      8  '               -j           4 >  ttAGMsCAeco~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'ID EDO 
P E R U   >   +._      )  1      M   A   T  O  -.            TOCANTINS   (         B  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P IA U  I  A  _SERG  .
l   i   -   ,,      - r   G O  l A S (           71/      si4Recif
Ri BOLIVIA                                                                                                                        ,_. r oanco"  ,c e;i 
G   R   O'    S S   0,,, Hw 
'    \                 !l                   _   X-   OUberlindro   t   OvoweMsOr   gS .    Corr6s~I 
r~~~~~~~~~                    ~   ;MT  RSO YkU,O'l,^     A S GERAS 
{~~~~~Cib                                      U apGadet~ - .,tr  A-  eo /SPRT   AT
i           DO SUL        /          _   5    .t -   HorizBRAe_LIT
~~7n0  j                                 !                    fl SiR Jp* do    oR.O P.YIO      t(     VllGocinic
B 0PR G A L I Vs Ir A                                                                   e,teR
MAT    GRO                      %A IN A G        Ev'-R A 5Jg;,
, ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m:rd                                                                         :EPRT  SANTO* ANACAARN
J&SOUTH   }      A  R G  E N  T  I I)N A   xJ    -                elorgonoF 1CC,                BeRloZ I 
AMERICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  SLJ                                                              H   orizorle-r dVi S
(  I  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,   .1    d,
o _rvsee ' r U ~\PRAUG UAY                                                              DE ANEIRO
P                                                                               AUilS R1985









IMAGING
Report No:      15522 BR
Type: SAR



