Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4047-BR
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project - REFORSUS)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Dated September 27, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4047-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Federative Republic of Brazil (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by a letter dated May 7, 1996 (the Health Policy Letter) from the 
Borrower to the Bank, the Borrower has indicated its commitment to introduce reforms 
in its health sector; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  "The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Investment Program" means any annual investment program of the 
Borrower, in respect of the Project, identifying the Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined) to be carried out during a given twelve-month period; submitted by the 
Borrower and approved by the Bank;
(b)
"Banco do Brasil" means Banco do Brasil S.A., a commercial bank 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 1455 of December 12, 1905;
(c)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(d)
"BB Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Beneficiary" means any public or non-profit entity located in the 
Borrower's territory which participates in the SUS (as hereinafter defined), and is 
responsible for the carrying out of aa Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"BNDES" means Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, the 
Borrower's National Bank for Economic and Social Development established pursuant to 
the Borrower's Laws No. 1628 of June 6, 1952 and No. 5662 of June 21, 1971;
(g)
"BNDES Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (e) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"CPRMSIHA" means Comissao Permanente de Revisao e Modernizacao dos 
Sistemas de Informacoes Hospitalares e Ambulatoriais, the Borrower's commission in 
charge of, inter alia, negotiating the prices charged for the provision of health care 
services under the SUS (as hereinafter defined), established pursuant to MOH's 
Portaria No. 2274 of November 17, 1995;
(i)
"Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
included in the Annual Investment Program;
(j)
"Grant" means a grant to be made by the Borrower to a Beneficiary out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, to finance not more than 85% of the cost of a Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined);
(k)
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(l)
"National Audit System" means the Borrower's health auditing system 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 1651 of September 28, 1995;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual dated May, 1996, 
containing, inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, the 
Page  3
criteria for the selection of,  and procedures for the carrying out of, Subprojects 
(as hereinafter defined);
(n)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit established within MOH pursuant 
to MOH's Portaria No. 942 of May 9, 1996;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Subproject" means a project selected by the Borrower pursuant to the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the in Operational Manual, and included in an 
Annual Investment Program, consisting of investments and other activities to be 
financed by a Grant in any of the areas referred to in Part A of the Project;
(q)
"Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (e) and (f) of this Agreement; and
(r)
"SUS" means Sistema Unico de Saude, the Borrower's unified health system, 
designed for delivering, through public and private entities, partially decentralized 
health care services to the majority of the Borrower's population, and established 
pursuant the Borrower's Law No. 8.,080 of September 19, 1990 and Law No. 8.,142 of 
December 28, 1990.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
Page  4
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Minister of Health of the Borrower, and the person or persons 
designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Part A of the Project through MOH with the assistance of BNDES and Banco do 
Brasil, and the participation of the Beneficiaries; and (ii) carry out Part B of the 
Project through MOH, all with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and environmental  practices and the provisions 
of the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MOH, not later than October 31 of each year 
during Project implementation, beginning in 1996, furnish to the Bank evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower shall have allocated in its budget 
proposal for the next succeeding year the amounts required for the carrying out of the 
Page  5
Project during such year.
(d)
The Borrower shall, through MOH: (i) maintain, during Project 
implementation, the PCU; and (ii) not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, 
establish and thereafter maintain, during Project implementation, at least three 
regional offices of the PCU, such regional offices to be located in areas acceptable 
to the Bank, all with responsibilities, structures and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the 
purposes of assisting the MOH in the carrying out of the Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall, through MOH, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with BNDES (the BNDES Agreement), designating BNDES to serve as the 
technical and financial agent of the Borrower in respect of Subprojects costing the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more each, such agreement to include the standard form of 
a Subproject Agreement and to provide, inter alia, that: (i) BNDES shall enter into an 
agreement with each Beneficiary for the provision of a Grant, under
terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) BNDES shall provide 
the economic evaluation required for the selection of Subprojects costing the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more each and, thereafter, shall assist the MOH in the 
supervision of the execution of such Subprojects.
(f)
The Borrower shall, through MOH, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with Banco do Brasil (the BB Agreement), designating Banco do Brasil to 
serve as the financial agent of the Borrower in respect of Subprojects costing less 
than the equivalent of $3,000,000 each, such agreement to include the standard form of 
a Subproject Agreement and to provide, inter alia, that Banco do Brasil shall enter 
into an agreement with each Beneficiary for the provision of a Grant, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank which shall include, inter alia, 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
through MOH, maintain the CPRMSIHA in charge to be responsible, inter 
alia, negotiating the prices charged for the provision of health care services under 
the SUS; and
(b)
maintain the National Audit System with the overall responsibility for 
conducting periodic audits of the SUS.
Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, through MOH, exercise its rights and comply 
with its obligations under the BNDES Agreement and under the BB Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MOH, shall:
(a)
in the month of October of each year during Project implementation: (i) 
beginning in 1996, furnish to the Bank for approval the proposed Annual Investment 
Program for the next succeeding twelve-month period, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) beginning in 1997, carry out furnish to 
the Bank a report containing an  evaluation of the progress in the carrying out of the 
Project and of the reforms set forth in the Health Policy Letter during the previous 
year, including an evaluation, on a sample basis, of Subprojects, covering ex post 
economic impact and quality of Beneficiary evaluation, all of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(b)
Promptly after the carrying out of each evaluation referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, furnish to the Bank: (i) a report prepared on the basis of the 
results of such evaluation; and (ii) the proposed Annual Investment Program for the 
Page  6
next succeeding year, of such scope and such detail as the Bank shall request, for 
Bank approval;
(c)
In the month of November of each year during Project implementation, 
beginning in 1997, review jointly with the Bank, the progress made in the carrying out 
of the Project and the reforms set forth in the Health Policy Letter, and the proposed 
Annual Investment Program for the following year of Project implementation such 
reviews to be based on the reports referred to in paragraph (b)(a) (ii) above; and 
thereafter cause and the carrying out of the reforms set forth in
the Health Policy Letter manner; and
(d)
If, as a result of such each exchange of views referred to in review (c) 
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress made by the 
Borrower in implementing the Project or the reforms set forth in the Health Policy 
Letter is not satisfactory, and within 30 days after such notice the Borrower shall 
not have achieved such progress or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, the Bank 
may refrain from approving the proposed Annual Investment  Program for the next 
succeeding twelve-month period of Project implementation.
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MOH, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
Page  7
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, beginning in 1997, employ auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out semiannual 
audits, on a sample basis, of Eligible the performance of Beneficiaries in the 
carrying out of Subprojects, and, promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank the reports 
of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall  
have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the BNDES Agreement and the BB Agreement have been entered into 
between the parties thereto; and
(b)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central.
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered 
by Banco Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date December 27, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "P" - 8o andar
70048-900, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Brasilia,
Brazil
Page  8
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
With copies to:
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70040-906, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
Ministerio da Saude
Secretaria de Assistancia . Saude
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "G" - 7o andar
70058-900, Brasilia - D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611751
611253
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Pedro Sampaio Malan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Witness: /s/ Antonio Kandir
SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                    121,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and 85%
                                                of local expenditures
(2)  Goods                   112,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and 85%
                                                of local expenditures
(3)  Consultants' Services    30,000,000        100%
(4)  Administrative           12,000,000        50% of local
     Expenditures                               expenditures
(5)  Unallocated              25,000,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                   300,000,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Administrative Expenditures" means the expenditures made by the 
PCU in relation to the administration of the Project, including consulting services, 
training and dissemination activities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date which is latter 
than September 25, 1995 or a date
twelve months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is later; and
(b)
under an Annual Investment Program which shall not have been approved by 
the Bank. and (b) payments made in respect of expenditures for a Subproject under 
Categories 1, 2 and 3 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless 
the Subproject is an Eligible Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for goods costing less 
than three hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($350,000) equivalent, and for works 
costing less than two million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,000,000) equivalent, 
for services of consulting firms costing less than one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) equivalent, and for services of individual consultants costing less than 
fifty thousands dollars ($50,000) equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the delivery of health care in the 
territories of the Borrower and assist in the introduction of policy reforms in the 
Borrower's health sector, with respect to the SUS, by: (a) assisting in the 
rehabilitation, modernization and management of selected SUS hospitals and ambulatory 
facilities; and (b) providing technical assistance to improve the financial 
sustainability and efficiency of the SUS.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investments
 
Carrying out of projects in the Borrower's health sector consisting of:
1.
Rehabilitation and purchase of health care and management information equipment;
 
2.
Rehabilitation of health care facilities; and
 
3.
Provision of technical assistance in the areas of health care administration, 
management information systems, maintenance, quality assurance, and handling and 
disposal of hazardous medical wastes and materials.
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of epidemiological, 
economic, managerial and legal studies and dissemination activities including 
publications, workshops and conferences, in support of the Borrower's health sector 
reform.  These activities shall provide the technical basis for supporting the 
establishment of: 
1.
a framework for pricing and reimbursing health care providers, including, inter 
alia, a system to monitor costs of health care on a continuous basis, the operation of 
the CPRMSIHA, and a priority list of health benefits financed by the SUS;
2.
a cost recovery system for care provided to privately-insured patients under the 
SUS; and
3.
an improved management of the quality of health care services and fraud control, 
including: (a) the decentralization of the National Audit System to state and 
municipal levels; (b) issuing bills for services provided in public and private 
hospitals assisted by included in the Project, to improve user information and control 
over the charges made by such hospitals to the SUS; (c) upgrading the management 
information systems for reimbursements; and (d) establishment and diffusion of quality 
standards for maternal care, hospital infection control, and safe collection and 
disposal of medical wastes and materials.
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)1
 
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 2001
through May 1, 2011
15,000,000
 
Page  11
____________________________
1
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the  applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
but not before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
Page  12
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each;
(c)
the invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines; and
(d)
bidders for contracts for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Specialized medical equipment estimated to cost less than $1,600,000 equivalent 
per contract, or per package of contracts, up to an aggregate amount of $18,000,000 
equivalent, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed of $55,000,000 
equivalent, and works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $210,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works 
under this Part C.2, standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank in standardized 
form for the Project, shall be used.
3.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed of $17,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $40,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three(3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to Part B.1 or C.1 of this 
Section, and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part C.2 hereof: of this Schedule;
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consorcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
Part F:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term custom duties and 
other import taxes includes the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante-AFRMM), 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as 
amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
Page  14
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed  by the Bank. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost  less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$25,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $12,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $48,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the [respective] 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit or deposits into the Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Page  15
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account  shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  16
