Page  1
October 11, 1996
Mr. Pedro Sampaio Malan
Minister of Finance
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "P" - 8o. andar
70048-900 Bras!lia, D.F.
Brazil
RE:
Loan 4047 - BR Health Sector Reform Project
REFORSUS - Amendment
Dear Mr. Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated September 27, 1996, between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) for the above referenced Project, and to the letter, 
dated October 10, 1996, from the Ministry of Health to the Bank, requesting an 
amendment of the Loan Agreement for the purpose of removing Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social as one of the financial agents of the 
Borrower under the Project and having Banco do Brasil S.A. as the only financial agent 
under the Project.
We are pleased to confirm the Bank's agreement to that request and propose to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
In Section 1.02 paragraphs (f) and (g) are deleted;
 
2.
In Section 3.01 (a) (i), the words "BNDES and" are deleted;
 
3.
Section 3.01 (e) is deleted;
 
4.
In Section 3.01 (f), the words "costing less than the equivalent of $3,000,000 
each" are deleted;
5.
In Section 3.04, the words "the BNDES Agrement and ", on the second line, are 
deleted, and the word "agreements", on the fifth line, is replaced by "agreement";
6.
In Section 5.01, paragraph (a) is amended to read as follows:
 
"(a) that the BB Agreement has been entered into between the parties 
thereto; and".
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please sign and date the two copies 
of this letter in the space provided below, and return one to us.  The effectiveness 
of this amendment will be subject to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement and the 
receipt by the Bank of one copy of this letter duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of the Borrower.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Homi Kharas
Acting Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Adrianne Griannetti Nelson
Authorized Representative
Date:
