Report No. 987-TU
Appraisal of
An Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project
Turkey
April 12,1976
Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Division
Projects Department                                                   C"   l
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 ,                  Turkish Lira (TL) 14.0
TL 1            =       US$ 0.0714
TL 1,000,000            US$ 7,428.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg)                              2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                                 1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                                 0.98 long ton
1 centimeter (cm)                            0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                             o 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = l0,000m2                    2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha                            0.25 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha    =       0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                  0 0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
DC-MVA     -      Directorate of Cooperatives, Ministry of Village Affairs
DYB        -      State Investment Bank
HCB        -     High Control Board
MFO        -      Meat and Fish Organization
SCP        -     Supervised Credit Program
SEE        -      State Economic Enterprise
SPO        -     State Planning Office
TCL        -     Turkish Cargo Lines
TCZB       -     Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TMO        -      Soil Products Office
TSF        -     Turkish Sugar Factories Corporation
TSKB       -      Industrial Development Bank
TZD        -      Farm Supply Organization
FISCAL YEAR (TCZB)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Table of Contents
jage~ No..
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  .............................    i-ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ........................................                                   1
II.      THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  .............................                                 2
A.     Agriculture  and  Land  Use  .......................                              2
B.     Land  Ownership  .................................                                3
C.     Agricultural  Policy  ............................                                3
D.     Agricultural  Credit  ............................                                4
III.      THE  AGRICULTURAL  BANK  OF  TURKEY  .....................                               4
IV.      THE  PROJECT  .........................................                                 10
A.     Objectives.10
A. tujcivs......................................................                 t 
B.    Project  Area  ...................................                               11
C.     Description  ....................................                               11
D.    Cost  Estimates  .................................                                15
E.     Financing  ......................................                               16
F.     Implementation  Schedule  ........................                               17
G.     Procurement  ....................................                               17
H.    Disbursement  ...................................                                 18
I.     Environmental  Impact  ...........................                               19
V.     ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  .........................                                19
A.     Project  Coordination  ...........................                               19
B.     Responsibilities  for  Implementation  ....                        ........     20
C.     On-Lending  Terms  and  Conditions  ....                       ............      23
D.     Overall  Strengthening  of  TCZB  ..................                             26
E.     Audit  ..........................................                                27
F.     Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ......................                              27
VI.      BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ..........................                                28
A.     Production,  Markets  and  Prices  .................                             28
B.     Financial  Benefits  .............................                               30
C.     Economic  Benefits  ..............................                               31
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS  ....... ...........                       ...................           33
|  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. The Agricultural Sector
2. The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
Chart     WB 9435
3. The Supervised Credit Component (SCP)
Chart     WB 9434
4. The Agroindustries Component
5. The Cattle Fattening Component
6. Ferryboat
7. Supporting Services and Training Programs
8. Detailed Project Costs and Phasing
9. Projected Statement of Receipts and
Disbursements during the life of the Loan
10. Disbursement Schedule
11. Economic Rate of Return Calculations
MAP
IBRD 11436



SUMMARY AND CONCLITSIONS
i.        The proposed project, the Bank's first institutional agricultural
credit project in Turkey, aims to develop agriculture and auxiliary service
by extending credit to a large number of farmers, marketing and agroindustry
firms and to strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) as Turkey's
prircipal agricultural credit institution.
ii.       The agricultural sector provides about 26% of the GNP, 60% of total
export income, and employs 63% of the total work force. The value added in
agriculture grew at an average rate of 4% p.a. (1969-1974) and was thus only
slightly higher than the population growth rate (2.5%). The agricultural
growth can largely be attributed to the expansion of industrial crops, fruits
and vegetables, while grain and livestock production increased at a rather
slow pace. Government's main policy instruments to stimulate agricultural
production are price policy for farm commodities and inputs, export and import
regulations, publicly financed investments and credit policy. Incentives for
cereal production improved markedlv in 1974/75 when Government's buying price
for wheat nearly doubled and inptut (fertilizer) prices were significantly
reduced.
iii.      The major project components would be:
(a)  Supervised investment and short-term credit to farmers in
most parts of Turkey;
(b) Seasonal credits for beef fattening in sugar beet areas;
(c) Credits for a variety of agroindustry investments with em-
phasis on fruits and vegetables marketing and processing;
(d) Credit for purchase of a ferryboat for marketing perishable
produce in European countries;
(e) Technical services to strengthen TCZB as a whole, and to
assist in the execution of the components (a) and (c), with
training to be provided by UNDP/FAO and UNDP/UNIDO experts;
and
(f) Vehicles for TCZB's field staff.
iv.       The project cost is estimated at US$173 million, of which 36% or
US$63 million would be foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$63 mil-
lion would finance the entire foreign exchange component. The balance would
be financed by Government and Government operated State Economic Enterprises
(US$4.0 million), by TCZB (US$57 million) and by subborrowers (US$49 million).
v.        Procurement of TCZB vehicles would be carried out by TCZB under
international competitive bidding according to IBRD guidelines. The ferry-
boat would be procured internationally by Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL) in
accordance with specifications and procedures as agreed by TCL, Government,



- ii -
TCZB and the Bank. Agroindustry investments exceeding US$2 million would be
procured on a turnkey basis in international competitive bidding by the sub-
borrowers under supervision of TCZB. Agroindustry investments below US$2 mil-
:Lion would be procured by the subborrowers under supervision of TCZB on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Items for on-farm development and cattle fattening would
be procured through existing commercial channels. The selection of consulting
firms and expatriate experts would be according to Bank guidelines.
vi.       TCZB would be the borrower and executing agency.  TCZB would prepare
and implement a program of improvement of its operations, financial planning
Emd resources. It would also engage consultants to assist in studying a range
of its problems. TCZB and the Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture
would carry out the Supervised Credit component of the project. The agro-
Industries component would be jointly implemented by TCZB and the Project
U'nit of the Ministry of Agriculture (PU). The Turkish Sugar Factories Corpo-
ration (TSF) would be responsible for the technical implementation of the
Cattle Fattening program. Division of responsibilities between the agencies
involved would be formalized in interagency protocols. A Project Coordinating
Committee composed of senior representatives of the agencies involved, the
State Planning Organization and the Ministry of Finance would have coordinating,
reviewing and monitoring functions.
vii.      TCZB would be .he channel for all project funds.  Accordiig to the
types of investments, interest rates charged to subborrowers would vary between
8.5% and 14.4%.  Maximum repayment periods have been determined through project
model analyses and would range fron 4 months to 12 years. Subborrowers receiving
loDans for agroindustry and ferryboat investments would assume the foreign ex-
change risk.
viii.     The project is expected to contribute significantly to production
targets outlined in the Third Five Year Plan. Its agricultural components
would contribute to sustain self-sufficiency in grain and beef production.
Due to the largely export-oriented agroindustry and transport components, the
project would, at full development, generate foreign exchange earnings or
savings of about US$65 million annually.  Some 20,000 farming families would
benefit from the project. It would generate employment opportunities both
in rural and urban areas amounting to over 15,000 man years annually during
investment. The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 36%.
ix.       In view of the satisfactory assurances received on all major matters
during negotiations, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$63 million,
fcor a term of 15 years including 5 years of grace.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Turkey has requested a Bank loan to help finance
an agricultural credit project which would include two agroindustries compo-
nents.  Although previous agricultural projects an Turkey have inclded credit
elements, technical agencies have generally taken the lead while the Agricul-
tural Bank, TC Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB) had been merely a channel for Bank Group
funds. This project stems from the initiative of Government and TCZB itself
to have TCZB establish a direct and larger scale borrower relationship with
the Bank. Technical agencies would continue to have important project respon-
sibilities, but TCZB would coordinate their activities and would for the first
time bear the ultimate responsibility for project execution. The project aims
to develop agriculture and auxillary services by extending credit to a large
number of farmers, marketing and agroindustry firms and to strengthen TCZB as
Turkey's principal agricultural credit institution.
1.02      The Bank and IDA have made the following loans and credits for agri-
cultural development in Turkey:
The Seyhan Irrigation Project (Loan 63-TU, Credit 38-TU, and Loan
Credit 143/157-TU); The Intensive Dairy Production Project (Credit
236-TU); The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Export Project (Credit 257-TU
and Loan 762-TU); The Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project
(Credit 281-TU); The Second Livestock Development Project (Credit
330-TU); The Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project (Credit 360-TU
and Loan 883-TU); and the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project
(Loan 1130-TU).
1.03      The proposed project was identified by the State Planning Organiza-
tion (SPO), TCZB and the respective technical agencies, with the assistance
of Bank supervision missions in May and July 1974 and a Bank preparation mis-
sion in October/November 1974. This report is based on the preparation report
and on the findings of an appraisal mission in April-May 1975 consisting of
Messrs. H. von Oppenfeld, W. Brandes, It. Wilson (Bank), H. Molina (UNIDO/IBRD
Cooperative Program) and H. Unkelbach (Consultant). Mr. E. Schertz (Bank)
assisted in appraising the agroindustries and ferryboat components and Mr. A.
Bose (Bank) assisted in appraising TCZB. Mr. R. Newman (Consultant) contri-
buted to the ferryboat appraisal. Ms. P. Fauntleroy assisted in calculating
the economic rate of return. Calculations were checked by MIr. S. Khorana.



- 2 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR -
A. Agriculture and Land Use
2.01      In Turkey, the agricultural sector provides about 26% of the GNP,
about 60% of total export income, and employs 63% of the total work force.
From 1969 to 1974 the value added in agriculture grew at an average compound
rate of about 4% per annum. The growth rates for production of industrial
crops, fruits and vegetables have been greater than those for cereals and
livestock, with the result that the share of the latter two categories in
total agricultural production fell from 78% in 1962 to 72% in 1972.
2.02      The total cultivated area in 1972 was about 25 million ha, of which
9 million ha were being fallowed, mainly as part of the cereal/fallow rota-
tion of lower rainfall areas. Turkish agriculture is predominantly rainfed,
which leads to marked annual fluctuations in yields in the regions of low to
moderate precipitation.
2.03      In 1972, 83% of the sown area was in cereals, of which 85% was in
wheat and barley. From 1961 to 1972, the total area sown increased by almost
1 million ha, and the area estimated to be fallowed by just over 1 million ha.
This expansion in cultivated area was at the expense of meadows and pastures
i.hose area fell from 28.8 million ha in 1961 to 26.1 million ha in 1972,
However, conversion from pasture to cultivated land cannot continue at this
rate since virtually all arable land is now being cultivated. Miajor crops
are wheat (8.5 million ha), barley (2.6 million ha), cotton (0.7 million ha),
and sunflower (0.4 million ha). Of the area sown (25 million ha) and the
area planted to tree crops, vineyards and vegetables (3.2 million ha), only
about 2 million ha are irrigated, which is substantially less than the area
that could be economically irrigated. The high proportion of fallow and the
relatively low crop yields are due mainly to the shortage of water and partly
to inefficient water use.
2.04      Turkey has large livestock resources (13 million cattle, 40 million
sheep and 19 million goats) which are mainly concentrated in the eastern and
central regions. At present, Government is encouraging the intensification
of both livestock and wheat production through price incentives and encourage-
ment of improved management practices. The proposed project would significant-
ly support these efforts through credit, combined with technical guidance and
supervision, for on-farm development and farm inputs.
1/   Further details on the sector are presented in Annex 1.



- 3 -
B. Land Ownership-
2.05      The eyisting landholding situation in Turkey is not well documented
because title to much of the land has not been registered and cadastral sur-
veys are proceeding slowly. According to the 1965 census, the average size of
holding was 6.9 ha and most of the land was farmed in small units. However,
the 1970 census shows some extremes in the distribution of land ranging from
4,000 units of 1',000 ha or more to 800,000 units of less than 1 ha. Most
large farms are in southeastern Turkey. For smaller farms the fragmentation
of la,dh1diL---  is a serious constraint.  It is a result of inheritance laws
under which holdings are divided among the heirs. More than half of the
holdings consist of 6 or more parcels.
2.06      Although land reform discussions started as early as 1926, no
relevant actions were taken until the land reform law of July 1973 which
established upper size limits for farms varying according to climatic and
soil conditions. In November 1973, Urfa, a province in southeastern Turkey
was selected as a pilot area for land reform implementation. Expropriation
of land started in November 1974, but there has been insufficient experience
to judge the success of the land reform efforts.
C. Agricultural Policy
2.07      The Third Five-Year Plan of Turkey (1973-1977) aims at achieving
the targeted agricultural growth rate (4.5% p.a.) through substantial fixed
capital investments which would raise the sector's productivity. With this
aim in view, the Plan provides for an investment of TL 33 billion (12% of
total) in agriculture. Production targets call for annual growth rates of
4.0% for crops and 5.0% for livestock. The highest annual growth rates are
5.5% for legumes and oilseeds among crops and 10.8% for eggs in the livestock
subsector. The main development strategy under the Plan is to: (a) induce
investments in projects with short gestation periods and low capital-output
ratios, (b) allocate credit for investments and inputs consistent with over-
all plan objectives, (c) adopt a price policy which leaves incentives for
farmers and yet protects consumer interests through selective Government in-
tervention, and (d) focus public agricultural services such as research,
extension and marketing along the stated priorities. This strategy appears
to be appropriate. Achievement of these objectives will however require more
rigorous efforts in planning and implementation of price policies.
2.08      Projected Third Plan rates of agricultural growth appear optimistic
and will more likely be of the order of 3%. Setbacks due to adverse weather
in 1973 and 1974 and resulting in negative rates (-1.6%) will not be suffi-
ciently outweighed by an expected bumper crop in 1975 (expected annual growth
rate 8.5%). Due to the tight world food situation and the declining foreign
exchange reserves, there will be even greater need for increasing agricultural



- 4 -
production, mainly through price incentives and investment allocations. The
proposed project would help meet general growth targets for agriculture and
would support specific subsector programs, especially for fruit, vegetables,
cereals and livestock. The increased output would help improve the balance
of payments through exports anc import substitution.
D. Agricultural Credit
2.09      Government's main policy instruments for allocating resources among
sectors and especially to agriculture are price policy for farm commodities
and inputs, export and import regulations, publicly-financed investments and
credit policy. Over the last two decades, agricultural policy has emphasized
increased production and exports, mainly through price support programs, in-
vestments in irrigation systems and export incentives. Institutional credit
for agriculture, which has accounted for 18% of increases in all outstanding
bank credit (1963-1971), is an important credit instrument.  As part of its
overall policy to stimulate agricultural production, the Government has
generally kept interest rates on lending to agriculture below the market
equilibrium rate through prescribed ceilings on specified investment cate-
gories which TCZB must observe (Annex 2 Table 1). TCZB is also required to
ensure that credit is used for priority purposes and is not misused (Annex 2).
It has not been possible to evaluate the impact of overall credit allocations
_.. the growth in agriculture production activities; it is felt, howe-ver, that
the type of institutional lending to date has not been sufficiently oriented
to creating productive assets.
2.10      Despite impressive growth of institutional credit for agriculture
in current terms, half of the 3.1 million farm families appear to have no
access to this source - particularly excluded have been the smaller farmers.
The major reasons are that a substantial portion of the increase has been for
Government price support programs administered by marketing cooperatives,
that coastal and irrigated areas have benefitted more than the Central and
Eastern Anatolia drylands, and that many small farmers have not been reached
due to basic structural problems of the sector: small volume of production
and marketable surplus, insufficient loan security, and other aspects of
rural poverty affecting credit worthiness.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY
3.01      TCZB, the largest credit institution in the country, is wholly owned
by the Turkish Government. It has a countrywide network of branches, numbering
855 as of May 1975, and a professional, technical and clerical staff of about
18,000. TCZB accounts for more than one-fourth of the total deposits of
Turkey's banking system and provides over 90% of the institutional credit to
agriculture.



3.02      Founded by law no. 3202, TCZB is a "State Economic Enterprise"
(SEE) under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce, and is governed by
a six-member Board of Directors appointed by the Council of Ministers. It
specializes in financing the agricultural and fisheries sectors for produc-
tion, marketing and other related purposes. It can engage in all types of
banking transactions, but the overwhelming thrust of its financing has been
short term lending in the form of credits, advances, overdraft facilities,
discounting of bills etc. TCZB is thus primarily a commercial, agricultural
bank. The bulk of its beneficiaries are farmers, who receive loans either
directly or through agricultural credit and marketing cooperatives.
3.03      TCZB's chief executive is its General Manager (who is also Board
Chairman), and its day-to-day management is in the hands of four Assistant
General Managers (two of them Board Members) and a Secretary General. The
latter is in charge of divisions responsible for TCZB's presently small but
growing term or investment financing, including agroindustry loans, and a
supervised credit program. Units under him also handle four Bank financed
projects (Fruits and Vegetables, Livestock I and II and Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development) for which TCZB is the channel for on-lending.
Operations
3.04      TCZB's loan portfolio, TL 36 billion as of the end of 1974, has
grown at the compounded annual rate of 22% over the past decade, with over
40% annual growth registered in 1973 and 1974.  H.vwever, Tasl rates of growth,
after adjustments for price increases, are considerably less, and for cer-
tain activities there has been very little incremental lending in the past
years. Net commitments for medium- and long-term loans have been growing at
a faster rate than for short-term loans. About 83% of the year-end 1974 out-
standing credit was short term, 14% medium-term (1-5 years) and only 3% long-
term. Loans through cooperatives dominated the year-end 1974 loan portfolio,
whose composition, excluding current accounts and advances, was as follows:
loans to marketing cooperatives (61.4%), to credit cooperatives (10.2%),
regular agricultural loans (21.1%), loans from special funds (IBRD, AID,
Government, 3.9%), supervised credit (2.6%) and development loans (0.4%).
The developments in 1973 and 1974 represent a special situation which may,
however, continue in some form in future. A major part of credits to market-
ing cooperatives (55.5% of total loans outstanding at end of 1974) finance
the purchase of certain crops by the cooperatives under the Governmept's
agricultural price support scheme. The sharp increase in lending to market-
ing cooperatives, under the Government's directive, is explained largely by
substantial increases in support prices of most commodities in 1973 and 1974.
Accounts
3.05      Like other SEE banks, TCZB's accounts are classified and presented
in accordance with standard guidelines prescribed by the Government. Although
the accounting principles adopted by the Government are updated from time to
time, there are divergences between these principles (which TCZB follows) and
internationally accepted accounting principles, e.g. in the evaluation of
overdues and provisions for bad and doubtful debts. Thus TCZB's financial
statements are not as informative or satisfactory as would be desirable.



- 6 -
Moreover, its accounting system is not designed to generate basic management
information including particulars of loan portfolio, breakdown by age of loans
overdue, extent of impending loan defaults, and timely financial indicators
and statements. The usage of automatic data processing equipment owned by
TCZB has been very limited.  An understanding of TCZB's accounts as well
as operations is complicated not only by the inadequate accounting system but
also by the vast scale and variety of operations. This is an area which,
therefore, calls for specialized study and improvement.
Finance
3.06      Resources.  In terms of outstanding amounts as of the end of 1974
the resource structure of TCZB was as follows: deposits (49.9%), Central
Bank rediscounts (31.7%), paid-in capital (2.3%), profit accruals (1.1%) and
other resources (15.4%). Historically, deposits from private and public
sources have constituted the most important source of funds, and have grown
steadily at about 20% annually in the past decade. However, since 1973, most
of TCZB's incremental resources have come from Central Bank rediscounting
facilities, to which TCZB has privileged access. Large scale recourse to
such rediscounting was needed to provide credits to agricultural marketing
cooperatives. During 1975, TCZB was allowed by the Central Bank to borrow
on a large scale against reserve requirement deposits of Turkish banks with
the Central Bank, as permitted under law; such borrowings increased to almost
the ceiling of TL 4 billion by October 1975 as compared to a level of less
than TL 700 million in the past few years.  In summary, while TCZB has been
moderately successful in obtaining deposits, it will continue to be heavily
dependent, like other SEEs, on public funds sources, given the controlled
interest rate structure and narrowness of the capital market.
3.07      Equity.  TCZB's equity base is small and has been dwindling relative
to liabilities. TCZB's authorized capital of TL 1.5 billion, as fixed by the
TCZB Act, presently constitutes a ceiling. The total equity of TL 2,069 million
as of the end of 1974 was comprised of paid-in capital (TL 1,172 million), re-
serves (TL 327 million) and accrued net profits (TL 570 million). None of the
various types of deposits, nor Central Bank loans against reserves (which are
for two-year terms), nor Central Bank rediscounts (whose terms coincide with
TCZB's terms and are thus mostly short-term) can be regarded at present as
"quasi equity" or equivalent.
3.08      The Government and TCZB are now cognizant of the need to increase
TCZB's capital and to thereby improve its equity position relative to debt.
Several measures have been or are being taken in this connection. First,
the Government has prepared a legislative proposal which would give the
Cabinet power to decree increases in the authorized capital of SEEs, of which
TCZB is one. Once passed as law, this measure would obviate the need for
amending the TCZB Act for purpose of increasing its authorized capital. Sec-
ond, in conjunction with the above, the Government has a proposal to increase
TCZB's authorized capital by TL 3.5 billion to TL 5 billion. The need for in-
creased capital has become acute for most SEEs, so that the Government is
giving this matter high priority for legislation and, for TCZB in particular,
has indicated its intention to take all action within its powers to obtain
iapproval of the proposed authorized capital increase. The Government has



estimated that the necessary Parliamentary action will be taken in 1976, but
because of uncertainty inherent in the legislative process, this schedule is
tentative. Third, the Government has prepared measures to increase
TCZB's paid-in capital to the authorized level of TL 1.5 billion, mainly
through the transfer of accrued profits. Fourth, in regard to the need for
recurrent action to keep TCZB's capital at levels required for a sound finan-
cial structure, the Government has indicated its intention to take necessary
steps to provide funds through its annual investment and financial program,
including transfer of accrued profits and other means. Fifth, a reduction
in TCZB's debt obligations was effected recently, as indicated in paragraph
3.10.
3.09      Conventional debt/equity ratios cannot be applied rigidly to TCZB,
a public bank with commercial operations. As a commercial bank, it has been
complying with financial requirements set by the Central Bank intended to
safeguard its liquidity and solvency. As a general indication, the debt/equity
ratio for TCZB as of December 31, 1974 would be about 16:1 after adjustment
for liabilities on account of cooperatives assumed by the Central Bank (para-
graph 3.10), the equity increase and short-term deposits.
3.10      Portfolio.  TCZB's present accounting svstem does not provide the
detail required for a comDrehensive evaluation of its loan portfolio. However,
a large proportion of its loans outstandino (e.e. TL 5.3 billion or 18.4% of
loans outstanding as of December 31, 1974) have been classified as overdue.
Bad debt provisions amounted to only TT 9 million at the end of 1974, and
write-offs have been insignificant. However, there are mitigating factors.
Analysis of 1974 arrearages indicates that over half were owed by cooperatives
wqho were required to administer price support policies. In order to deal with
a rapidly growing part of the indebtedness of SEFs reDresenting financing
undertaken by them under directives from the Government, a Law (No. 1902) was
adopted in May 1975. In accordance with the provisions of this law as they
apply to TCZB, a part of TCZB's debt to the Central Bank on accotmt of loans
to marketing and/credit cooperatives, amounting to TI. 3.9 billion, was con-
solidated and assumed by the Treasurv (thus reducing TCZB's debt hy a like
amount) recently but with retroactive effect as of December 31, 1974. It is
estimated that the bulk of the above debts of the cooperatives are loans in
arrears. Thus, the Government's action improved the portfolio significantly,
reducing outstanding loans in arrears from over 18% to an estimated 7%-8%.
3.11      Despite the recent reductions in TCZB's overdues, its loan collection
performance leaves room for improvement. TCZB's practice has been to continue
to make short term credits to farmers (who are considered as being essentially
'~trustworthy") regardless of repayment performance, except for loans under the
Supervised Credit Program (SCP). This confidence in borrowers is reflected also
in insignificant bad debt provisions. Although TCZB is likely to be able to
safeguard itself against any possible large scale defaults, the quality of its
portfolio and its policies in regard to loan collections raise concern, calling
for specialized study and remedial action.



-8-
Policies and Procedures
3.12      TCZB operates on the basis of annual credit programs which allocate
funds for its various activities and to branch offices, with at least 80% set
aside for agriculture as required by law. As of 1975, TCZB charged interest
at 10.5% on purely agricultural credits, and at rates ranging between 8% and
14% on other types of loans 1/; the rates are equal to or near the maxima set
by the Government. In Turkey's inflationary situation, the demand for credit
at these rates usually exceeds available loan funds. TCZB has thus had to
ration its funds, mainly by limiting the amounts of short-term production
cred:Lt to farmers through a prescribed scale of finance, based on maximum
credit amounts available per unit area under individual crops, supplemented
by credits in kind of seeds, fertilizers and fuel. These short term credits
requiLre verification by agents of the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.13      TCZB adheres to a legal provision ir Turkey specifying that loans
in excess of TL 150,000 (USS10,714) must be approved by TCZB's Board of
Directors. Below that level, there is a further set of prescribed limits
down the organization. The limit of TL 150,000 was established in the 1950's,
and has thus become too low to allow for meaningful delegation of authority
in as large and complex an organization as TCZB.
3.14      In considering TCZB's capability to implement the proposed project,
attention was focussed on divisions which would handle the present project,
viZ Encouragemennt and 'levelopient Division, Project Evaluation Division and
the SCP Division, all of which report to the Secretary General. The Project
Evaluation Division is responsible for technical and financial appraisal of
loans in excess of specified limits, including supervised credits and term
loans for agro-industries and farm development. The Encouragement and Develop-
ment Division carries out overall evaluation of such proposals except SCP loans.
The Project Evaluation Division, and to a lesser extent the Encouragement and
Development Division, have a nucleus of qualified professional staff. The
appraisals prepared between these two Divisions apply many acceptable tech-
niques, but could be improved. The size of investment loans is frequently
determined by the value of collateral, and loan repayment terms are often set
without reference to prospective earnings or repayment capacities of borrowers.
In addition to the above, another division of TCZB which will be involved in
the project, viz the Research Division, carries out a range of studies and in-
vestigatfons as directed by the managemert.
3.15      Under the supervised credit program (SCP), investment and production
loans are granted to carefully selected farmers, who are required to operate
under the guidance of TCZB's agricultural technicians. The SCP is a well con-
ceived program with satisfactory standards both in preparation of farm plans
and suDervision of implementation.  The well managed SCP Division is supported
by a field staff of competent agricultural engineers and technicians now num-
bering 230. The SCP, initiated in 1964, now covers 43 of Turkey's 67 provinces,
1/   The actual rates paid by borrowers are different from these rates, re-
flecting commission charged by TCZB, transfer taxes on interest and
certain rebates by Government.



- 9 -
but has only been able to benefit about 35,000 farmers so far, because of
limited resources, selective criteria (land size limits and past loan repayment
record) and high staff inputs.
Summarv Evaluation
3.16      TCZB is the major agricultural financing institution in Turkey,
with a long history and a large widespread organization. Its antiquity,
status and size endow it with both strengths and weaknesses. TCZB's ex-
perience in agricultural financing is unique, yet it has unfulfilled po-
tential as a developmental organization commensurate with its size and
powers. TCZB has certain characteristics of most large public organiza-
tions: it has to be socially responsible, and accountable to the State;
at the same time it is constrained by aspects of legislative and Govern-
mental procedures, and by calls made on it to implement programs considered
by the Government to be in the public interest. Generalizations about the
management of this large organization are apt to be misleading, but it is
clear that, overall, the management is conservative. Yet over the decades,
the TCZB management has had the image of being an independent force, albeit
through various links with the country's political and economic leaders.
3.17      While TCZB's strong points are recognized, the analysis made during
appraisal, as presented above, identifies the following characteristics or
shortcomings for which remedial action is indicated:
(i)  The necessity for overall strengthening of management and or-
ganization is apparent from the present knowledge of policies,
procedures and practices and, generally. from the unexploited
potential for TCZB in promoting agricultural development.
(ii)  TCZB's financial structure has not been satisfactory, mainly
because of a relatively small equity base. However, both the
Government and TCZB have now recognized a real need for im-
proving TCZB's equity position. Concrete steps in this di-
rection have already been taken (paragraph 3.08) and further
action would lie with the legislature, which the Government
intends to pursue vigorously.
(iii) TCZB's potentially serious financial situation is signified
by a high proportion of overdue loans against very small
provision; this situation has been mitigated by the Treas-
ury's recent assumption of part of cooperative debts. Never-
theless, further study and action are needed in this field,
to gradually achieve a stronger portfolio in the long term.
(iv)  TCZB's accounting system has shortcomings,  It does not
generate adequate management information. Accounting
principles followed are at variance with generally ac-
cepted accounting principles.



- 10 -
3.18      The divisions indicated in para 3.14 have achieved a competent level
of operation. They are handling satisfactorily a number of agricultural deve-
lopment financing programs, but there remains scope for further improvement.
The core of their professional staff is of adequate quality, although there
is need for training to improve particular skills. The quality of appraisals
needs to be improved, especially in regard to assessment of borrowers' credit-
worthiness, financial analysis and economic evaluation. Some of TCZB's lending
policies such as loan maturities and eligibility criteria (especially colla-
teral requirements) need to be revised.
3.19      In the light of the foregoing, TCZB has been evaluated from two
angles. Firstly, TCZB is judged to have the capacity to carry out this proj-
ect, with certain technical assistance (para 4.13) and adjustments in or-
ganization, policies and procedures associated with the project, as indicated
in subsequent parts of the Report. Secondly, from the long-term perspective
of TCZB as a whole, there are several areas of shortcomings which needed to
be properly studied and then remedied in stages. Both the Government and
TCZB are interested in carrying out such a long-term program, intended to
improve TCZB's competence as a development institution. For a start, TCZB's
management would be responsible for studying, proposing and carrying out a
program for improvement of its operations and finances (para 5.21). Concur-
rently, by carrying out the specific project on-lending responsibilities for
high priority investments, TCZB is expected to grow in strength. These two
paths are expected to lead to a vigorous and ultimately self-sustaining ef-
fort for a long-ter= strenothening of TCZB.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project would help finance part of TCZB's agricultural invest-
ment program over three years. Its principal objectives are:
(a)  to raise farm production and incomes through supervised credit
and cattle fattening loans to small- and medium-scale farmers;
(b)  to improve domestic and export marketing through loans for
aRroindustrv and transport investments;
(c)  to strengthen, through Government and TCZB action, staff
training and technical assistance, the institutional capabil-
ities of TCZB, Turkey's major source and channel for institu--
tional farm credit; and other project agencies;
(d)  in general to help reduce some of the interpersonal, inter-
regional and intersectoral ircome disparities by expanded
credit onerations to reach target group subborrowers in
less developed regions.



- 11 -
The project outlined below contains the specific means to achieve these ob-
jectives and would, thus, help alleviate some constraints to agricultural
development and contribute to Turkey's food production, export and income
distribution goals.
B. Project Area
4.02      Components financed under the project would be located in many parts
of Turkey, including less developed areas of Central and Eastern Turkey.
TCZB's supervised credit program extends over 43 of Turkey's 67 provinces and
has been authorized for 7 additional provinces (Map 11436). Further expan-
sion depends upon availability of qualified staff and would be enhanced
through training under the project (para. 4.13). Livestock fattening of
Turkish Sugar Factories Corporation (TSF) is widely distributed through pro-
duction areas of 17 sugar beet factories in all regions including tile areas
of lower rural income in Eastern Turkey. Although agroindustries investors
tend to locate their plants primarily in the fruit belt and irrigated areas
along the Marmara. Aegean and Mediterranean coast, there are good prospects
for agroindustries (fruit juice production or fruit drying, olive or sunflower
oil extraction, feed mills and slaughterhouses) in Central and Eastern Turkey.
C. Description
Supervised Credit Program (SCP)
4.03      The SCP combines certain technical, especially farm management
services with investment credit, supplemented by short-term loans up to five
years. Based on farm business analysis, an agricultural engineer or techni-
cian works with the farmer to prepare an integrated farm development plan
which supports the loan application. Upon loan approval, the engineer/
technician continues to advise the farmer and supervise progress of farm
development. Release of subsequent loan tranches and short-term loans is
subject to satisfactory performance, actual performance being compared with
farm plan projections. Poor performers are eventually excluded, while the
remaining participants are "graduated" upon completion of the development
program, normally after three to five years. Thereafter they have access to
TCZB's regular credit facilities. An evaluation of 2,000 graduated farmers'
performance showed that 90% of planned investments were realized and achieved
substantially increased farm output and income due largely to technical guid-
ance, credit and supervision. Further details about SCP are in Annex 3.
4.04      On-farm investments supported by SCP fall into five broad catego-
ries (a) farm equipment, (b) purchase of livestock, (c) improvement of land
and buildings, (d) establishment of new farm enterprises and (e) working
capital financed by supplementary short-term loans. Selection of specific
crop or livestock investments depends on farm resources, marketing potential
and farmer preference in accordance with national priorities. Although the
program has stimulated demand for improved technology and increased partici-
pant incomes, its overall impact has been limited. Particioants have not



- 12 -
exceeded 35,000 or 1% of Turkish farmers and have included more medium- than
small-scale farmers. Principal constraints have been loan funds, qualified
supervisors (engineers/technicians), staff mobility and, in some regions.
the availability of farmers without overdues to TCZB.
4.05      Subloans proposed under the project would be for investments similar
to those supported by previous SCP loans. This would reach approximately
4,000 new farmers over three years, with a special focus on small farmers
(paira 5.09).  While farm mechanization in general may have an adverse impact
on rural employment in Turkey, the proposed investments are expected to serve
primarily as machinerv replacements that now form part of existing farming
systems, and be limited to basic power mechanization rather than mechanization
of extensive labor cultivation or harvesting practices. The proposed mechaniza-
tion investments would comprise no more than 5% of the projected SCP program,
or 1% of total project costs. Staff competence would be upgraded through
special training in farm management and loan appraisal under a proposed new
UNEIP/FAO technical assistance program. Staff mobility to reach farmers would
be improved through provision of vehicles under the project (para 4.13).
4.06      To broaden participation especially among smaller farmers and in
less developed regions, the project would introduce a new short-term SCP
lending program. Commencing in two to three provinces (year 1) this program
would gradually expand, in line with staff capabilities, to cover 10 to 12
provinces by year three. Subloans would benefit about 14,400 farmers in three
years. In contrast to conventional SCP investment loans (para 4.04), which
require detailed analyses and projections, these short-term production loans
would be based on standard loan amounts per crop and/or livestock unit, as
determined (and annually reviewed) by SCP management and under supervision of
village agricultural extension agents (para 5.09).
Agroindustries
4.07      Subloans would be for four main categories of agroindustries:
(a) handling facilities for perishable commodities (fruit, vegetables, eggs)
to improve their quality and presentation on domestic and export markets;
(b) cold stores generally associated with such handling facilities to help
extend the marketing season of the respective commodities; (c) food processing
facilities (fruit drying, juice concentration, canning, freezing, oil extrac-
tion, slaughtering by-product utilization facilities) to improve existing and
establish new outlets for farm commodities, and (d) manufacturing of simple
farm implements, feed mills for local and imported ingredients and similar
facilities to help increase availability of farm implements and inputs.
Private sector firms, groups of farmers or small investors (cooperatives or
firms) and, to a lesser extent, public sector firms (SEEs) would be eligible
for subloans. Further details on the agroindustry component are in Annex 4.
Cattle Fattening of Turkive Seker Fabrikalari (TSF)
4.08      Cattle fattening by sugar beet growers under contract with TSF
commenced in 1969. Farmers participating in the program buy feeder cattle
individually by using credits they receive from TSF. The fattening contracts
specify that groups of farmers, who generally utilize TSF by-products (beet



- 13 -
pulp and molasses) along with other feed, will (a) submit to guidance and
supervision of TSP technicians and veterinarians, (b) receive up to 70% of
their estimated cash operating cost as short-term credit, (c) agree on a
joint liability system, (d) market the finished cattle through the Meat and
Fish Organization (MFO) at agreed prices and (e) have loan repayments deducted
from their sales revenues by TSF which receives payments from MFO. The rela-
tively small scale of operations, averaging 21 head per fattening unit, has
made this program eminently suitable for small farmers. Daily weight gains
obtained by 4,500 participating farmers under the program have averaged
approximately 0.8 kg per head. Analysis of farmers' returns has shown good
results, and further evidence of their profitability is reflected by the keen
demand for these loans. Limitation of loan funds has been the principal con-
straint to further expansion of the program.
4.09      TCZB would channel project loan funds through TSF for distribution
of subloans to individual farmers. Subloans would cover similar short-term
investments, mainly cattle and feed purchases, as under the ongoing fatten-
ing program of TSF. To broaden participation among small farmers, TSF has
agreed to channel at least half of the subloans to farmers with no more than
20 head per cattle unit. Subloans would thus benefit about 8,100 additional
farmers over three years. Close supervision and marketing agreements would
minimize problems of subloan recovery enabling TSF to assume the risk of
non-repayment and to guarantee full repayment for project loans to TCZB
which would establish a special revolving account. The resources of this
account would be used for sustaining repeater operations in subsequent years
(para 5.10 and Annex 5).
Roll-on/Roll-off Ferryship
4.10      Loan/Credit 762/257 TU contains provisions to finance two new
ferryships for establishing roll-on/roll-off (Ro/Ro) service between Turkish
and Italian or Yugoslav ports for over-the-road trucks and semi-trailers.
The service was to be primarily for transporting perishable produce for mar-
keting in European countries and carry general cargo during off-season and on
the return trip. The Loan Agreement provided that the ferryships were to be
procured only after the Bank and the Association had approved the subborrower
and its management and the overseas arrangements.
4.11      No potential subborrower had shown an active interest in the
ferryship subloan until 1974 when the PU, assisted by Turkish Cargo Lines
(TCL), an SEE, prepared a feasibility study for the ferryship component which
was updated with a supplement in 1975. After thorough analysis by Bank staff
assisted by specialized consultants, TCL was found to be a suitable subbor-
rower and the proposed ferryboat investments were found technically feasible
and financially viable and would provide Turkey with an alternative route for
perishable produce to European markets. However, instead of investing in new
ferryships, the studies proposed to purchase used or resale Ro/Ro type ferry-
ships which could carry both over-the-road trailers and special Ro/Ro ship
trailers which expedite loading and unloading of containers and reduce turn-
around time in port. Two such ferryships with ancillary equipment are esti-
mated to cost about US$17 million. US$6.9 million would be financed from



- 14 -
Loan/Credit 762/257 plus US$1.6 million from Government and TCL for one of
two vessels required. For the second vessel, which is essential to establish
an effective fruit and vegetable ocean shipping system, this project would
provide US$6.9 million while TCL would provide the balance (US$1.9 million
equivalent). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
would make specific financial resources available to TCL to complete the
financing plan for the ferryboat.
4.12    It was considered important to arrange for the simultaneous
procurement of the two similar vessels (sister ships) as required
to establish regular and frequent service. Accordingly, the Bank
and the Association concurred in TCL proceeding with the various
steps involved in the procurement of two Ro/Ro ferryboats, subject
to the conditions and procurement procedures specified in Annex 6.
4.13      Technical assistance would be provided to TCZB, and to PU as follows:
(a)  Assistance to TCZB for institutional improvement.  An ex-
perienced firm of consultants meeting international standards
would be employed to assist TCZB in studying inter alia its
lending, accounting system and finances, and in introducing
reforms (para 5.22).
(b)  Training SCP staff in farm management, loan .apraisal and
supervision and in monitoring the impact of SCP loans. A
proposed UNDP/FAO Training Project would provide farm manage-
ment and farm credit specialists experienced in training
(para 5.09). 1/
(c)  Assisting PU in training small teams that would provide
engineering, marketing and financial planning services to
agroindustries subborrowers. A proposed UNDP/UNIDO Training
Project would provide engineering, financial and marketing
experts experienced in training (para 5.06). 1/
1/   The UNDP Representative in Ankara has indicated availability of UNDP
funds for two projects for training project staff. Under the proposals
now being formulated, UNDP/FAO and UNDP/UNIDO experts would carry out
the tasks listed in (b) and (c), respectively. Because these UNDP
projects have not been finalized, Bank financing of these items is
provisionally provided under the project. If the proposed UNDP proj-
ects are eventually approved, the designated Bank funds would be can-
celled. If the UNDP project for task (c) is not approved, tasks (c)
and (d) would be combined and performed by the same consulting firm.



- 15 -
(d) Assisting PU and TCZB in evaluating feasibility studies for
agroindustries subprojects and subloan applications, writing
functional specifications, evaluating suppliers' bids, and
supervising implementation. An agroindustrial engineering
consulting firm meeting international standards would be
employed by TCZB. The firm would provide services to PU, TCZB
(if required) and to subborrowers; 50% of the fees (about
US$580,000 equivalent or 1% of their estimated investment cost)
would ultimately be borne by subborrowers (para 5.07). If
required, the firm would also assist TCZB and PU in preparing
a second agricultural credit/agroindustries project.
The agencies involved would employ the consultants with qualifications and
on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:
-    Consultant services outlined in (a) not later than
December 31, 1976.
-    Consultant services outlined in (b) and (c) above,
through UNDP assistance or with financing from the
proposed Loan - not later than 6 months after sign-
ing of the loan.
-    Consultant services outlined in (d) above - not later
than September 30, 1976.
In addition to the technical assistance, about 150 vehicles to improve mobil-
ity and effectiveness of SCP field staff would be financed under the project.
Government would assume the repayment obligations of the cost of the technical
assistance program less the cost to be borne by sub-borrowers (4.13d). Assur-
ances on the foregoing were obtained during negotiations. Further details
on supporting services are in Chapter 5 and Annex 7.
D. Cost Estimates
4.14      The estimated total project cost based on 1975 prices, including
physical and price contingencies, would be TL 2.4 billion (US$173 million),
of which 36% (US$63 million) would be foreign exchange, Detailed unit cost
estimates are shown in Annex 8 and summarized below:



- 16 -
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
------TL Millions-- - ----US$ Millions----           %
Lending Program
Supervised Credit
(SCP):
- Integrated farm
development           225.2   47.3    272.5    16.1    3.4        19.5      17
- Short-term
lending                21.0   31.5      52.5      1.5    2.3       3.8      60
Agroindustries          468.3  415.2    883.5    33.4   29.7        63.1       47
Cattle fattening        449.3   13.9    463.2    32.1    0.9        33.0        3
Ferryship                 -    119.0    119.0        -     8.5       8.5     100
Supporting Services
- Vehicles for TCZB       -      16.8     16.8       -     1.2       1.2     100
- Consultants for
TCZB and PU            -     28.6      28.6       -     2.1       2.1     100
Subtotal base costs    1,163.8  672.3  1,836.1    83.1   48.1    131.2           37
Contingency
Allowances
- Physical (5%)          48.8   43.3      92.1      3.4    3.2       6.6      47
- Price (25.4%)         324.6  166.4    491.0    23.3   11.7        35.0       33
l'otal                  1,537.2  882.0  2,419.2   109.8   63.0    172.8          36
4.15      Physical contingencies totalling US$6.6 million (5% of the base costs)
are provided only for the agroindustries component at rates of 10% except for
two slaughterhouses which are based on 20% of the base cost. Price contingen-
cies for all components of US$35.0 million (25.4% of base + physical contingen-
cy costs) were calculated to allow for annual increases in equipment costs of
12% in 1975, 10% in 1976 and 8% in 1977 and onwards. For civil works and sup-
porting services the following annual rates of increase in costs were applied,
16% in 1975, 14% in 1976 and 12% in 1977 and onwards. Further details on con-
tingencies and phasing are in Annex 8.
E. Financing
4.16      The financing plan for the project would be as follows:



- 17 -
Subborrowers     TSF             TCZB         IBRD
Amount    %   Amount  %      Amount    %  Amount    %  Total
---------------------------US$ Millions--------------------
Supervised Credit
- Integrated farm
development         5.0    20      -     -        10.5  42      9.5   38   25.0
- Short-term lend-
ing                  -       -     -     -         2.5   53     2.3  47    4.8
Agroindustries        26.5    30     -     -        33.0  37    28.8  33   88.3
Cattle fattening     15.1    36      4.0  10        11.3   27    11.3   27   41.7
Ferryship             1.9    22      -     -          -     -     6.9   78    8.8
Supporting Services
- Vehicles for TCZB    -       -     -     -          -     -     1.5  100    1.5
- Consultants for
TCZB and PU                                                     2.7  100    2.7
Total Project Cost   48.5    28      4.0   3        57.3   33    63.0   36  172.8
Subborrower contributions have been established in accordance with considera-
tions for availability of resources and meaningful levels of participation.
Projected receipts and disbursements, based on subborrowers' repayments, show
t--t th- re-1*4ing ^csh flow would permit TC7B to repay the IBRT loan in 15
years, including 5 years of grace (Annex 9). TCZB would be the borrower.
Government would ensure TSF's and TCL's participation in the implementation
and financing of the cattle fattening program and the ferryboat component, re-
spectively. It would also supplement TCZB, TCL's and TSF's funds if their re-
spective net resources would be insufficient during the project implementation
period. Assurances on the foregoing were obtained during negotiatons.
F. Implementation Schedule
4.17      Project implementation would begin toward the end of 1976.  Govern-
ment has proposed to procure the Ro/Ro vessels by mid 1976. The conventional
SCP and cattle fattening components are expansion phases of ongoing programs
and would commence without delay. Individual agroindustry investments re-
quire preparation and evaluation prior to subloan approval, and procurement
would begin about 12 months following project effectiveness. A detailed im-
plementation schedule is attached to Annex 8; the key milestones were agreed
during negotiations.
G. Procurement
4.18      International competitive bidding in accordance with IBRD guidelines,
and under supervision of TCZB would be carried out by the subborrowers for
agroindustries projects (packing houses; cold stores; input, equipment and



- 18 -
processing facilities). Since the efficiency of large processing facilities
depends on the compatibility of plant design, process flow and equipment,
contracts for each facility with an investment cost exceeding the equivalent
of US$2 million would be placed on a single contract basis with appropriate
subcontracting. Procurement of vehicles for TCZB would be grouped into
contracts with an estimated cost of the equivalent of US$250,000 or more
and procured under international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers
would receive 15% margin of preference, or the actual level of import
duty, whichever is less in bid comparisons. To ensure international
competition the Ro/Ro ferryboat would be procured by TCL as agreed by
Government, TCZB, TCL and the Bank, in accordance with general specificiations
and detailed procedures set out in Annex 6. The selection of consultants
for technical assistance to TCZB and PU would be in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for selection and use of consultants.
4.19      Procurement for agroindustries facilities with investment costs
below the equivalent of US$2 million would involve contracts for relatively
simple civil works and equipment ranging in cost between $0.1 and $2.0 mil-
lion. Because of their small size, dispersion throughout the country and
phasing of the subprojects, these agroindustries would not likely attract
foreign bidders. These contracts would be procured by the subborrowers on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of items for on-farm development and
cattle fattening would be through existing commercial channels. Adequate
competition for these items is assured by the existing convenient channels
which include wide representation of both domestic and foreign suppliers of
the goods required.
H. Disbursement
4.20      The proposed loan of US$63 million would be disbursed over 5 years,
as follows:
(a) Supervised Credit Program (US$11.8 million): Disbursements
would cover 48% of the conventional subloans and of the in-
cremental new short-term subloans.
(b) Agroindustries (US$28.8 million): Disbursements would cover
47% of subloans.
(c) Cattle Fattening Program (US$11.3 million): Disbursements
would cover 42% of incremental subloans.
(d) Ferryship (US$6.9 million): Disbursements would cover 100%
of foreign exchange (or 100% of the ex-factory cost less
taxes for locally manufactured ancillary equipment),
up to a maximum of US$6.9 million.



- 19 -
(e) Supporting Services:
1.   Vehicles for TCZB (US$1.5 million):  Disbursements
would cover 100% of foreign exchange, or ex-factory
cost less taxes whenever contracts are awarded to
local manufacturers.
2.   Expert Services for TCZB and PU (US$2.7 million):
Disbursements would cover 100% of the total cost.
4.21      Based on the borrower's statements of expenditures, the Bank would
reimburse the borrower for its share of financing sub-loans as specified in
(a), (b) and (c) of para 4.20. Supporting documents for the above items would
be retained by the borrower (TCZB) and be available for review by Bank super-
vision missions. However, normal documentation would be required for items
(d) and (e). Savings would be reallocated to other categories or, on comple-
tion of the project, would be cancelled. Retroactive financing would be
provided for procuring one ferryship. An estimated quarterly disbursement
schedule for the Bank loan is given in Annex 10.
I. Environmental Impact
4.22      The project investments are not expected to have any significantly
adverse ecological effects. Agroindustries facilities will be designed to
take into account pollution control; the Bank, in reviewing agroindustries
subprojects, would check designs and sDecifications in terms of its own
ecological guidelines.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination
5.01      A Project Coordinating Committee would be established to facilitate
inter-ministry coordination on policy matters related to implementing the proj-
ect. The Committee would he composed of senior representatives from the State
Planning Organization (SPO), the Ministry of Finance, TCZB, PU in the Ministry
of Agriculture, Turkish Sugar Factories Corporation (TSF), and the Agricultural
Extension Service. The Committee would he chaired by a senior representative of
the SPO. Because of SPO's and the Bank's increasing concern for improving co-
ordination between project agencies, this Committee, which has now been estab-
lished formally, had been functionirg informally since the beginning of the
prolect identification and preparation stage. In consultation with the Bank,
TCZB has nominated its Secretary General as Project Coordinator, who would
also serve as Secretary to the Coordinating Committee. He would be responsi-
ble for coordinating day-to-day implementation of the project. The Project
Coordinator would raise all matters requiring high level interagency resolu-
tion to the Project Coordinating Committee.



- 20 -
5.02      The functions of the Committee would be to:
(a) Review project lending policies in line with Government prior-
ities, and formulate guidelines for project implementation.
(b) Monitor progress and resolve obstacles to project implementation
by clarifying interagency relationships or by making recommenda-
tions to the Council of Ministers for essential policy decisions.
(c) Monitor submission of progress reports by technical project
agencies and TCZB, including submission of semi-annual and
annual reports to the Bank according to agreed schedules.
(d) Arrange for monitoring and objective post-project evalua-
tion of the project's impact (para 5.24).
B. Rsponsibilities for Implementation
Functions of TCZB as Executing Agency
5.03      TCZB would be the borrower and executing agency, and it would have
two major overall responsibilities.  Firstly, through the Project Coordinator,
iLt would co         p _-ro,c. v-at1ns of the technical implementing agencies
with TCZB's loan evaluation and approval. The success of the project would
heavily depend on this coordination being carried out effectively.
5.04      Secondly, TCZB would extend credit for investments under the four
project components, with responsibilities as stated in para 5.07. TCZB would
also be responsible for preparing a second agricultural credit/agroindustries
project and, if needed, would receive technical assistance from consultants
to be financed under the proposed project (para 4.13).
5.05      The proposed Bank loan wtould establish, for the first time, a direct
relationship between TCZB and the Bank. The apparent weaknesses of TCZB's
management, organization, finances and operations had previously weighed against
direct Bank lending. Many of the problems arising from these weaknesses still
remain. However, the Government and TCZB have given evidence of their interest
in making concerted efforts to solve TCZB's basic problems. The TCZB manage-
ment would be responsible for the major part of such efforts. It has agreed
to undertake a program of improvement (para 5.21). Thus, the proposed loan
wuould be a vehicle for overall reform and strengthening.
Responsibilities of Technical Implementation Agencies
5.06      Agroindustries.  Since its establishment (1971) under the Fresh
F'ruit and Vegetable Export Project (Loan/Credit 762/257) the PU, together
with consultants, has been assisting subborrowers in preparing and imple-
menting investments for marketing of fresh fruits and vegetables. PU staff
is experienced in engineering, marketing, financial and economic evaluation.
Under the proposed project, PIJ's responsibilities would be broadened to
include subproiect preparation, technical and economic evaluation and imple-
mentation of processing and marketing of fruit, vegetable and related food



- 21 -
products as well as of other agroindustry investments (sutch as feed mills,
slaughterhouses and farm implement plants). Upon request submitted through
DC-MVA, PU would similarly assist subborrowers for cooperative marketing
and processing investments. PU would benefit from a technical assistance
training program (para 4.13c) in all these tasks.
5.07      TCZB would also be responsible for financial evaluation, subloan
appraisal of creditworthiness and loan administration and sulpervision.  An
international engineerinR consulting firm would be employed bv TCZB to as-
sist in preDaring, appraising, and supervising subprojects, including
preparatior of snecifications and evaluating bids. Fifty percent of the
cost would be ultimately borne by the subborrowers (para 4.13 d). Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that this division of responsibili-
ties including that for training (para 5.06) would be formalized by an
inter-agencv protocol between PUT and TCZB before the project becomes ef-
fective.
5.08      Appraisals of all subloans exceedingI US$1.2 million equivalent and
the first subloan of each type of agroindustry investment would be reviewed
bv the Bank Drior to final approval bv TCZB.  The appraisals would include,
inter alia, evidence of access to raw materials at reasonable prices and
analvsis of market prospects. Assurances on the foregoing were obtained
during negotiations. TCZB would not normally make subloans (a) in excess of
US$3 million to any individual subborrower, or (b) for anv investment which,
including working caDital, exceeds USS8 million.
5.09      Supervised Credit.  Beginning with pilot projects in two provinces
(1964), the SCP Division of TCZB has been implementing the supervised credit
program. Inder the project TCZB would be responsible for implementing the
expanded SCP ard for introducing supervised short-term credit in selected
provinces. Technical and managerial competence of TCZB/SCP staff (some 230
agricultural engineers and technicians) is satisfactory for the current level
of operations, but would be enhanced through a technical assistance training
program, esnecially for subproject preparation and evaluation (para 4.13 b).
Selection of farms would be within the maximum/minimum size limits which TCZB
has established for its present SCP operations. Anv changes in these limits
which mav be warranted from time to time, would be subject to Bank approval.
Owing to the widely fluctuating agricultural conditions and levels of agri-
cultural intensitv, not all farmers qualifying under these limits, but an
estimated minimum of 75% of the subborrowers, would fall within the rural
poverty target group. However, agreement has been obtained that the SCP
would formally adopt the objective of reaching the largest possible number of
subborrowers within the rural poverty target group as defined bv the Bank's
criteria. 1/ In addition a special effort to broaden participation among
1/   The rural poverty income level is defined as one third of per capita
total personal income in Turkey or total cost of minimum per capita
income requirement related to nutritional needs, whichever is higher.
For 1975, the Bank's estimate for this level is TL 4,000 (US$285).



- 22 -
small farmers would be made by setting aside half of the component amount
for subloans not exceeding TL 84,300 (US$6,000) per subborrower. To assist
TCZB in reaching this objective, SCP staff would be expanded annually by
about 50 agricultural engineers and/or technicians for three years beginning
1976. For the first subloan of each type of on-farm investment TCZB would
submit the appraisals, based on farm plan and cash flow projections, for
the Bank's review and approval. Furthermore, TCZB would explore additional
ways of providing credit to the rural poverty target group and, assisted
by the consultants mentioned above, develop and implement mutually acceptable
refined eligibility criteria by the end of 1977. Under the new short-term
lending program (para 4.06) village agricultural extension agents would be
appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and cooperate closely with expe-
rienced SCP staff. They would prepare a list of technically eligible farmers
from each village. After eliminating delinquent borrowers, TCZB would sanc-
tion loans in accordance with agreed standard guidelines for financing selected
crop or livestock inputs. The cooperation between TCZB and the Ministry of
Agriculture would be formalized through an interagency protocol before the
project becomes effective. Assurances on the foregoing' were obtained during
negotiations.
5.10      Cattle Fattening.  Based on its experience since 1969, TSF would
assume responsibility for the technical implementation of cattle fattening
which would be expanded under the project. Technical, management and organi-
zational competence of TSF is of a high standard. TCZB would on-lend Bank
funds, matched by funds from 4its own resources, ;-, T?.  TSF would r.eakL sub-
loans to farmers for cattle and feed expenditures under terms and conditions
agreed with TCZB (Annex 5, paras 5 and 6). TSF would also accept the repayment
risk. The contract between TSF and such farmers would contain a provision
authorizing TSF to recover subborrowers' repayments from proceeds of their
cattle sales. TCZB would establish a special revolving fund for farmers'
loan repayments to TSF. Access to this fund would enable TSF to reuse
these resources for repeater operations in subseqcuent years. Repayments of
TSF's own financial contribution (US$4 million over 3 years) would also be
retained in the revolving fund.  Before the proposed Bank loan becomes ef-
fective, the cooperation between TCZB and TSF would be formalized through
an interagency protocol, and the revolving fund established.  To ensure
the continued participation of small farmers, half of the subloans would
be made to farmers fattening no more than 20 head (para 4.09).  Assurances
on the foregoing were obtained during negotiations.
5.11      Ferryship.  Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL) has 58 ships for liner, tramp
and time charter services, with a total capacity of 840,000 DWT, and would
have the capability to operate a ferryship system. TCL has agreed to obtain
the services of specialist consultants acceptable to, and on terms of refer-
ence to be agreed with the Bank for technical and financial evaluation, and
procurement of the two Ro/Ro ferryships (para 4.18 and Annex 6). With these
expert services to be provided under Loan/Credit 762/257-TU the technical,
management and organizational capacitv necessary for carrying out the ferry-
ing operations are satisfactorv within TCL. TCZB would on-lend Bank funds
to TCL.



- 2)3 -
C. On-Lending Terms and Conditions
5.12      In lending, TCZB would assess the condition of sub-borrowers, and
appraise subprojects in sufficient depth to establish their technical feasi-
bility, financial viability and economic justification. It would make arrange-
ments for adequate supervision of suborojects. The terms of individual sub-
loans would be decided in accordance with financial evaluation and cash flow
projection of particular investments. However, the following minimum interest
rates and maximum on-lendinz terms for SCP, agroindustries and cattle fattening
subloans have been determined through sub-project model analysis (Annex 3, 4
and 5), and would be adopted by TCZB for project on-lending:
Minimum
Sub-           Minimum           Repayment Period
borrowers       Interest      Maximum        Maximum
Components                Equity          Rate           Grace         Repayment
 %-------------            --------Years----------
(a) Supervised Credit
Program
Investment Loans         20            11            0-6            2-10
Short-term                0            11            0               1
(b) Agroindustries           30            14.4/1         3            12
(c) Cattle Fattening         35            14.4          0              0.33
(d) Ferryboat                22             8.5/1         3             12
/1   Subborrowers would assume foreign exchange risk.
5.13      Effective interest rates to be paid by subborrowers for agroindustries
and cattle fattening would be among the highest charged by TCZB. For agroin-
dustries and for a third component (ferryship for which on-lending is at 8.5%),
real rates would be higher than the nominal rates because subborrowers would
also bear the foreign exchange risk. 1/ The intergovernmental nature of the
ferryship lending (between two SEEs) together with the international practice
of subsidizing credits to the shipping industry, argues in favor of this
lower on-lending rate, particularly in view of the foreign exchange risk
provision.
5.14      The above interest rates are close to or lower than the 15%1o rate of
inflation estimated for 1975. Therefore, real rates of interest applicable to
much of TCZB's lending program are currently negative, a situation which pre-
vails in public sector operations in the context of the low interest rate
regime in Turkey. The Government is committed to bringing inflation rates
1/   In the past ten years the Turkishi lira had depreciated 39% against the
US dollar and 60% against the German Mark.



- 24 -
down to 10% in the medium-term; however, the degree of success of these efforts
is uncertain. Positive real interest rates are not in prospect for the near
future, and this will most likelv retard the abilitv of the public sector to
mobilize private savings. In order to place itself in a better position to
assess and effectively exercise its policy options in this area, the Govern-
ment has initiated a Financial Sector Study of the role of financial insti-
tutions and markets in the mobilization and allocation of resources in Turkey.
The Bank will provide technical assistance for the studv, for which detailed
terms of reference are under preparation by the Turkish authorities. The
studv is expected to be completed by mid-1977. For the project, it has been
agreed that the terms and conditions (including interest rates) applicable to
sub-loans would be reviewed hv TCZB with the Government and the Bank in the
light of conditions prevailing at the time of such review, at such time as
a request for such review is made by any one of these three parties.
5.15      Taking a broader view, the positive features of this project are
judged to outweigh any possible effects of the relatively low real on-lending
r,ates. The institution-building features of the project are expected to re-
sult increasingly in improved investment decisions and better allocation of
loan funds. TCZB has agreed to channel the bulk of the project's agricul-
t.ural credit funds to target group small-scale farmers (para 5.09), who are
critical from the standpoint of development and income distribution; this
would be achieved bv channelling through administrative techniques. SCF
and livestock fattening subloans are oriented to farmers whose incomes are
considerably below average nat'onal per capita income (para 6.11). More-
over, a substantial portion of the SCP subloans would benefit low income
dryland farmers in Anatolia. Diversion of SCP loan funds for non-priority
purposes, such as labor-displacing heavy mechanization, would be unlikely
as this credit would be applied in a package with farm planning and frequent
supervision.
5.16      With the exception of the ferryboat component where TCZB's adminis-
trative expenses and risk are negligible, the on-lending rates allow a 2.5% and
3% spread, respectively, as shown below:



- 25 -
Agro-                Cattle
SCP         industries            Fattening
Interest paid on IBRD Loan    8,5              8.5                   8.5
Commission for PU              0               0.5                   0
TCZB Spread                    2.5             2.5                   3.0
11.0           11.5                   11.5
25% Tax to Treasury            0-              2.875                 2.875
Interest to be paid by
Subborrower                  11.0            14.375                14.375
/1   Exempted from tax by law.
The above spreads are considered adequate to cover administrative expenses
and risks of TCZB under the project. The average cost of TCZB's resources
in the recent past has been just over 5%.
5.17      TCZB would transfer the 0.5% of commission on agroindustry subloans
to PU (as under Loan/Credit 762/257) to cover the cost of its services to
agroindustry subborrowers.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that (a) with the exception of subloans mentioned in para 5.12(b) and (d),
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk; (b) 0.5% of interest on
agroindustry subloans would be transferred to PUI; (c) the rates charged to
subborrowers would not be less than indicated in para 5.16; and (d) TCL and
agroindustry subborrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk.
5.18      In order to relax present collateral reauirements, the agreed
project on-lending policies would provide that TCZB would accept as security
not only real estate mortgages but also
(i) in the case of short-term loans, guarantees of third parties and
(ii) in the case of medium and long-term loans, chattel mortgages on
equipment and livestock, assets to be financed from the proceeds
of the loans, and guarantees of third parties.
During negotiations assurances were obtained accordingly.
5.19      For medium- and long-term loans TCZB currently requires equal semi-
annual repayment of principal with interest charged on the remaining balance.
This leads to high debt service payments during the first years when revenues
are just beginning to build up. UJnder the project subborrowers' repayment
burden would be fixed in line with repayment capability. Assurances were
obtained accordingly during negotiations.



- 26 -
D. Overall Strengthening of TCZB
Overall Strengthening
5.20      Technical assistance and other meastures built into the project
should contrihute to its success. The strategy for the project has been to
concentrate on the parts of TCZB which have the capability to carry out the
operations envisaRed, with technical assistance and specific initial improve-
ments and covenants. In regard to TCZB's overall structure, organization,
policies, procedures and operations, which require review and reform, the
Long-term strategy would be to attempt successive improvements through as-
sistance provided in conjunction with further Bank operations in the future,
which are expected if this project is satisfactorily implemented. The direct
contact provided by a lending relationship is considered necessary for creating
the proper climate for the large scale changes anticipated. Certain concrete
steps have been already taken or are iD process with a view toward giving
'TCZB a sound financial structure (para 3.08).
5.21      As an initial measure under this project, the Government and TCZB
hlave agreed that the TCZB management would undertake a comprehensive internal
review of TCZB's operations, finances and resources. Thereafter. TCZB would
prepare a program of improvement based on the studies, for submission to the
Bank by the end of one year from the date of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Following a joint review, TCZB would then implement a mutually agreed program.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained accordingly. Specific matters
for study will be discussed with the Bank from time to time.
Technical Assistance
5.22      The consultants referred to para 4.13(a), who would be employed by
T'CZB by December 31, 1976, would assist TCZB in studying key problem areas,
and helping implement recommendations. TCZB expects that its Research and
Project Evaluation Divisions will be the units most involved in the studies.
T'he qualifications required of the consultants, and an outline of the topics
to be covered in the consultant work program are given in Annex 7. Detailed
terms of reference will be based on this list of topics, which may be sum-
marized as follows:
(i) practices and procedures of TCZB's lending operations,
including project appraisal;
(ii) organization and administration;
(iii) accounting principles, systems and procedures; and
(iv) operational and financial planning and management.



- 27 -
Subsequently, when TCZB has prepared its program of improvement (para 5.21),
possible further activities for the consultants will be identified and pro-
posed to the Bank. Assurances regarding the employment of consultants on
suitable terms of reference were obtained during negotiations.
E. Audit
5.23      External audit of TCZB's accounts, like those of other SEEs, is
carried out by the High Control Board (HCB), which is responsible to the
National Assembly through the Prime Minister's Office. HCB does a con-
tinuous audit of TCZB; formal audit of accounts is done after receipt of
complete financial statements withiun four months from the end of the fiscal
year, as required by law. HCB's reports are presented in succession to
TCZB's Management and General Meeting and responsible Parliamentary bodies.
HCB audits are in accordance with concepts prevalent in the Turkish public
sector, which are known to be at variance with certain internationally ac-
cepted practices such as portfolio evaluation based on assessment of risks.
HCB's staff is dominated by engineers and economists, and its audit reports
on TCZB are lengthy documents covering the range of TCZB's activities and
organization but with little opinion expressed, except implicitly, on ac-
counting principles, adequacy of reserves, etc. TCZB would submit to the
Bank unaudited financial statements, in English, for 1975 and subsequent
years, within four months of the close of each fiscal year; and audited fi-
nancial statements with HCB's summary audit in English, within three months
thereafter. In order to achieve satisfactory quality and coverage, HCB's
normal audit reports would be supplemented by evaluations of its loan port-
folio and provisions for bad and doubtful debts, as requested by the Bank.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.24      TCZB, as executing agency, would be responsible for evaluating the
benefits realized under this project. Assisted by the 'experts mentioned in
Annex 7, it would monitor its credit activity within and outside the project,
assess the economic impact of the project and report on improvements achieved
with regard to strengthening its structures and procedures. Within 2 months
after the end of each semester. TCZB would report semi-annually through the
Project Coordinating Committee to the Bank on progress of the project and
record the progress against the agreed implementation schedule, and undertake
post project evaluation. During negotiations, appropriate assurances were
obtained from TCZB accordingly.



- 28 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production, Markets and Prices
Production
6.01      Agriculture.  Through emphasis on beef and grain production, the
project is expected to contribute substantially to production targets out-
l:Lned in the Third Five Year Plan. Incremental production of major commodi-
tiLes would be as follows:
Incremental Production
QuantitY                   Values
Tons '000                TL million
Wheat                                  19.6                      49.0
Barley                                  9.8                      19.2
Beef                                   13.1                     190.6
Eggs (million)                         49.7                      42.2
Citrus                                  3.9                       7.5
Early Vegetables                        5.5                      23.1
Stored Apples                           4.8                      12.0
Others /1                               -                       116.1
Total                                                      459.7
/1   Of the integrated farm development components, only 70% of
the investments are covered by models.
At May 1975 prices, the total value of the incremental production at full
development is estimated at TL 459.7 million (US$33 million).
6.02      Agroindustries.  The project's emphasis on agroindustries would be
in storing and processing fruits and vegetables, which is also in line with the
current Plan. The expected yearly throughput at full development would be:



- 29 -
Quantities    Values /1  Values Added /2
Tons '000    YTLmir7ion   TL million
lomato Paste                             9.5          96.4          56.7
Citrus Frozen Concentrate                2.6          26.6          10.6
(rape Concentrate                        5.9          54.5          21.8
'tored and Cooled Produce              114.2         371.8         164.0
Clive Oil                                4.5          44.9          40.6
Slaughterhouse Products                   -          621.7         113.6
leed Mill Products                        -           91.9          29.6
Cthers /3                                 -         1,063.2        466.3
Total                               -         2,371.0         903.2
il   Including by-products.
/2   Sales value minus value of raw materials.
/3   Only 49% of investments are covered bv models.
St full development, the agroindustry component would generate (at May 1975
Trices) a throughput of about TL 2.4 billion (US$170 million) or a value ad-
ded over the value of the raw materials of TL 900 million (US$65 million).
Flarkets
6.03      Agriculture.  The incremental production generated by the project
ujuld have ready markets. Increased wheat and feed grain production is need-
ei domestically to sustain self-sufficiency for these products, thus alleviat-
ilag severe supply problems resulting from rapid population and income growth
aad from the shortage of land that can be allocated to grain production.
BEef and egg production and the majority of the increased citrus and early
vagetables production would be consumed locally on highly absorptive markets;
arout 25%o of citrus and early vegetables would be exported, mainly to Western
E-irope.
6*04      Agroindustries.  The major share of citrus and grape concentrate
aid about 50% of the incremental tomato paste and olive oil production are
ecpected to be exported to Western Europe. The balance could be easily
a'sorbcd on the domestic markets which are characterized by high income
eLasticity of demand (0.6 for vegetables and 0.8 for fruit). As a result
o. investments in cold-stores and packing houses, part of the stored and
picked apples would be exported to Iran and other mid-east countries where
dimand for apples has increased markedly over recent years.  Marketing of
p'ecooled fruits (such as peaches, apricots, cherries) to Europe would
b- enhanced through transport facilities (refrigerated trailers and ferry
b:ats) financed under this and the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Export Project.
F!eds would be used in Turkey's rapidly growing livestock industry, and
tle proposed slaughterhouses are urgently required to replace old, unsanitary
aid operationally inefficient plants and to increase cold storage of existing
s'aughter plants.



- 30 -
6.05      Ferryship.  The proposed ferryship would increase the annual
transport capacity by about 130,000 tons, thus alleviating a severe transport
bottleneck. The major benefits would result from saved transport costs on
122,500 tons and increased fruit and vegetable exports (7,500 tons). Further-
more, the proposed ferryship would reduce spoilage and increase exDort prices
of fruits and vegetables through more timely and reliable delivery.
Prices
6.06      Farmgate prices for most of the relevant commodities are set through
minimum price support programs, the major exceptions being for livestock,
fruits and vegetables (see Annex 1, paras 13-17). Both output and input
prices during appraisal (May 1975) are more or less in line with world market
prices. Because of its limited scope, the project's impact on both domestic
and international prices would be negligible with the exception of beef prices,
where the project's incremental production would cause domestic beef prices to
increase at a slightly slower rate than that at which international beef prices
are expected to rise. The proposed investments in fruit and vegetable storing,
cooling, canning and processing would induce a slight increase in the respec-
tive farm prices resulting in additional farm income.
B. Financial Benefits
6.07      Some 20,000 farming families representing about 120,000 persons are
,expected to benefit from the project, most of whom would be farming under un-
favorable conditions in Central and Eastern Turkey with a fairly high potential
for expanding grain and beef production. The financial benefits generated
through the investments in the supervised credit and beef fattening compo-
nents are satisfactory (Annex 3, Tables 6-12, Annex 5, Table 2). Net incre-
mental income and financial rate of return (17-71%) would be sufficiently high
to make the proposed investments attractive. M4ay 1975 farmgate prices have
been applied in calculating the returns; any inflationary pressure would be
expected to affect both costs and benefits to the same extent, thus maintain-
ing the present relationship between them. Sensitivity tests assuming higher
costs or lower production showed satisfactory results in all cases.
6.08      Investments in agroindustries, mainly in the Mlediterranean and
Aegian regions, and in the ferryship would yield satisfactory rates of return
(16-27%) and attractive cash flows (Annexes 4 and 6). Sensitivity tests were
satisfactory for increases in investment costs. However, the agroindustry
investments proved to be extremely sensitive to increases in operating costs
or decreases in sales, which is typical for investments where the costs of
raw material represent a high portion of the total production costs.



- 31 -
C. Economic Benefits
Foreign Exchange Earnings
6.09      The bulk of project investments would generate outputs for local
consumption, mainly beef, eggs, wheat and barley. Most of the direct export
earnings would come from the agroindustries component, mainly from fruit and
vegetable storage and processing. At full production the project would gen-
erate export earnings (in 1975 prices):
TL 14 million        (US$1 million )      from agriculture
TL 762 million       (US$54 million)      from agroindustries
Additional foreign exchange earnings would result from the ferryboat invest-
ments providing transport capacity for both agricultural and non-agricultural
products. Taking into account (i) direct exports (TL 776 million); (ii)
indirect exports resulting from the ferryship (TL 60 million); and (iii)
foreign exchange savings by import substitution of grain production (TL 68
million), the total foreign exchange earnings would amount to TL 900 million
(US$65 million) annually. This would be particularly important to Turkey
in view of its rapid decrease of foreign exchange reserves which occured
since 1974.
Employment
6.10      The project would generate substantial employment opportunities
both directly within the firms receiving credit and indirectly by increased
demand for inputs to be used in the project.
Project                   During Investment                Annually
Components                        Period               Direct        Indirect
man-years                 man-years/year
Agriculture
Family labor                   80                 2,940             -
Hired labor                3,260                     10           1,580
Agroindustries                  12,400                 4,400           2,610
Ferryship                                                  50             190
Total                     15,740                  7,400           4,380
Employment would be generated throughout the country with agricultural employ-
ment opportunities being created predominantlv in the less developed regions
of Central and East Anatolia, where disguised unemployment is relatively high.
The proposed agroindustry and ferryship investments would result in additional
urban employment primarily in the developed western parts of Turkey.  In view
of deteriorating prospects for labor migration to western Europe, the project's
employment effect would be important.



- 32 -
Target Group and Income Benefits
6.11      Turkey's average 1975 per-capita income is TL 8,400 (US$600).  The
average without-project per-capita income of farmers' families receiving credit
under the supervised credit program would be TL 3,890 (US$278). Project in-
vestments would generate an increase of average per-capita income to TL 4,960
(US$354) before and TL 4,440 (US$317) after debt service. Within the beef
fattening component, the average per capita income of the benefiting farmers
would increase from TL 3,700 (US$264) to TL 5,520 (US$394) before and to
TL 5,250 (US$375) after debt services.
6.12      Principal beneficiaries of agroindustries investments would be those
entrepreneurs who may already have relatively high incomes, except in the
cases of cooperatives with memberships of medium and small scale farmers.
However, the income impact would also reach the primary producers who are in
many cases small and medium scale farmers with product contract arrangements
with processprs. For the ferryboat and slaughterhouses, SEE's would be the
subborrowers, resulting in positive effects on public income.
6.13      About 88% of the farmers benefitting directly from the agricultural
components would receive 74% of the loan amount; these farmers would belong
to the "target group" (US$285 per-capita as of 1975). Additional incomes
would accrue:
-    to workers directly or indirectlv employed under the project
(para 6.10); and
-    to consumers benefiting from the increased supply of beef and
other commodities.
Resource Allocation
6.14      The strengthening of the institutions involved, mainly TCZB and PU
would result in substantial benefits from improved resource allocation at the
investment design level. The staff of TCZB and PU trained under this project
would also be responsible for operations beyond the project. Their experience
could thus result in further resource savings.
Economic Rates of Return
6.15      The economy is expected to realize a return of 36% from total proj-
ect investments, including physical contingencies. The individual components
are estimated to yield the following results:



- 33 -
Net Present Value
Rate of Return (%)          (TL millions) /1
Supervised Credit                      52                         308
Agroindustry                           19                         418
Beef Fattening                       very high /2               1,106
Ferryship                              33                         109
Total Project                          36                       1,941
/1   Discount factor of 14%.
/2   Due to the 100 days production period the computed rate of return
would be infinite.
The costs of all supporting services have been included, however the resource
allocation benefits (para 6.14) have not been quantified. Where applicable,
IBRD commodity price projections have been used. Labor inputs have been
shadow priced according to skill, location and season. For all domestic
inputs (including labor) and for outputs resulting in in-creased consumption,
shadow exchange rates have been used. A sensitivity test was applied to test
the project against changes in project costs and production results. By
increasing the project costs by 10% the rate of return would drop to 19%.
By decreasing the value of the benefits by 10% the overall return would
fail to 18% (Annex 11).
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following major assurances were obtained
from Government:
(M)  that it would cause TSF to extend no less than 50% of the
subloans to farmers fattening no more than 20 head of cattle
under the project (para 5.10);
(ii)  to enable TCZB to maintain a sound financial structure, it
would take necessary further actions to pursue relevant
legislation, and provide TCZB with additional resources
through its annual programs and other means (para 3.08);
and
(iii)  it would ensure that M{CB's audit of TCZB's accounts in-
clude an evaluation of TCZB's loan portfolio and had and
doubtful debts, as may be requested by the Bank (para 5.23).



- 34 -
7.02      Assurances would also be obtained from the Borrower (TCZB) that it
would inter alia:
(i) submit to the Bank for its prior review subloan appraisals for
(a) agroindustries exceeding I!S$1.2 million equivalent (para
5.08); (b) the first sub-loan of each type for agroindustry
investments (para 5.08); (c) the first subloan of each type
of on-farm investment (para 5.09);
(ii)  create a special revolving fund for sub-loan repayments received
through TSF and enable TSF to reuse resources from this account
for repeater operations in subsequent years (para 5.10);
(iii)  set aside half of the SCP medium-and long-term loan amount for
sub-loans not exceeding TL 84,000 or I!S$6,000 equivalent, adopt
the objective to reach the ruiral poverty target group within
SCP lending, and develop and implement refined eligibilitv
criteria by the end of 1977 (para 5.09);
(iv)  undertake a management review of its onerations. finances
and resources, and on the basis of the review, prepare a
relevant program of improvement for s"hmission to the Bank
within 12 months of effectiveness of the Bank loan, and
implement it promptly thereafter (para 5.21); and
(v) employ consultants acceptable to the Bank by December 31,
1976, to assist in studving and implementing institutional
improvements (para 5.22).
7.03      Assurances were obtained from TCZB and Government (including PIT,
TSF and TCL) that: (i) they agree on the key milestones of the project
implementation schedule (para 4.17'); and (ii) that TCZB and PU would employed
consultants as outlined in para 4.13 (b), (c) and (d) within the time limits
iLndicated.
7,.04     Conditions of project effectiveness would be that:
(i) TCZB would submit to the Bank signed inter-agency protocols,
satisfactory to the Bank, (a) defining the agreed d'vision of
responsibilities with PU for agroindustrv sub-projects and for
technical services of consultants (paras 5.06-5.07, 4.13(c) & (d);
(b) defining the responsibilities of TSF and TCZB for the cattle
fattening component incluiding the creation of the special revol-
ving fund (para 5.10); and (c) defining the agreed division of
responsibilities with the Agricultural Extension Services for
SCP short-term lending (para 5.09); and
(ii)  the revolving fund for financing the cattle fattening program
has been established (para 5.10).
7.05      Having received the necessary assurances, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of $63 million equivalent for a term of 15 years inclutding
5 vears of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
The Agricultural Sector
A. General Information
Introduction
1.        Agriculture remains an important sector in the Turkish economy
comprising in 1974, 26% of GDP, contributing about 60% of the foreign ex-
change earnings and much of the industrial raw materials, and employing 63%
of the work force. Agricultural growth, which averaged about 4% p.a. (com-
pound) between 1969 and 1974, has been relatively stable. It compares to the
average global agricultural growth rate of 7.4% p.a. for the same period and
has outpaced the population growth rate of 2.5% p.a. The Third Five-Year
Plan (1973-77) anticipates a 4.5% growth rate for the agricultural sector with
the larger increase in livestock (5%), compared to crop production (4%). The
development achieved so far has been disparate between types of commodities,
industrial crops recording the highest rate and cereals the lowest. Live-
stock production growth has been poor compared to that of crops, despite the
demand increase for livestock products. Regional growth has varied, e.g.
those regions with a predominance of cereal crops (Anatolian Plateau) and
livestock (eastern Turkey) have fared poorly compared to the other more
fertile areas.
Agricultural Resources 1/
2.        Turkey has a total area of 78 million ha of which 54 million ha
are used for agriculture. The cultivated area amounts to 25 million ha, of
which 9 million ha are fallow. From 1961 to 1973, the total area cultivated
increased by 8% (1.9 million ha), half of which was sown and half kept fallow.
This expansion of cultivated land caused a decrease in meadows and pasture.
However, conversion from pasture to cultivated land cannot continue at this
rate since virtually all arable land is now being cultivated. Major crops
are wheat (8.5 million ha), barley (2.6 million ha), cotton (0.7 million ha)
and sunflower (0.4 million ha). An area of about 2 million ha is irrigated,
which is substantially less than the area which could be irrigated economically.
1/   Refer to Tables 1-5.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
The high proportion of fallow and the relatively low crop yields are due mainly
to the shortage of water, but also to inefficient water use on irrigated land.
Turkey has large livestock resources (13 million cattle, 40 million sheep and
119 million goats) which are concentrated mainly in the eastern and central
parts of the country.
RFeional Production Patterns
3.        Climatic and soil conditions vary widely, resulting in five major
regions with substantially different agricultural production patterns. The
Central Anatolian Plateau is the largest of these regions. About 800-1,000 m
above  sea level, it is characterized by hot summers, cold winters and 250-400
nIm annual precipitation, and it is here that most of Turkey's fallow land is
situated. Dry farming, with wheat as the main crop, and a cereal/fallow
rotation is predominant, because of weather conditions, central Anatolian
agriculture experiences heavy fluctuations in wheat yields. Eastern Anatolia,
a mountainous area with extremely cold winters. is primarily used for live-
stock production. However, both eastern and central Turkey have several
fertile vallevs with irrigated agriculture where sugarbeet, sunflower, apples,
peaches and apricots are grown. By contrast, the Mediterranean region with
centers in the Adana-Mersin and the Antalya plains has mild winters and here
irrigated cultivation of citrus, cotton and early vegetable prevails. Pro-
ductivity per hectare and farm incomes are higher than in the other regions.
The Marmara and Aegian reeion is rather heterozeneous. Generallv. it is not
as mild as the Mediterranean region, although in some areas citrus and cotton
production is possible. Other dominant crops are olive and fruit trees, grapes,
tobacco, vegetables, sunflower and sugarbeets. Mild and humid conditions pre-
vail in the Black Sea region where hazelnuts and tea are the most important
crops.
Land Ownersh
4.        The land holding situation in Turkey is not well documented because
title to much of the land has not been registered and cadastral survey is
proceeding slowly. According to the 1965 census, the average size of holding
is 6.9 ha. More detailed information about farm size distribution is given
below:
Farm Size         Farm Units                           Total Area
Ha       Number             %                 ha                     %
1-5       2,132,288         68.8            5,219,248               24.8
5-20         825,825        27.5            8,775,146               41.7
20-100        110,814         3.5            4,932.427               23.4
100 and over  _4,23             0.1           2_145,727              -10.1
TOTAL   3,073,250       100.0            21,072,548              100.0



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Most of the land is being farmed in small units, although the 1970 census shows
some extremes in the distribution of land ranging from 4,000 units of 1,000 ha
cr more to 800,000 units of less than 1 ha. Most of the large farms are sit--
uated in the southeast.
5.        Information on tenancy systems is virtually nonexistent.  The 1950
census revealed the following status of farm units classified according to
the land tenure svstem:
Farm Units
Landowners                                      72.6
Landowners and Tenant Farmers Combined          21.5
Tenant Farmers                                   0.6
Sharecroppers                                    2.5
Others                                           2.R
TOTAL                                     100.0
Although this distribution may be changing towards owner/tenant or owner/
sharecropper farms, most farmers in Turkey own all or the major portion of
their land. Tenancy and sharecropping arrangements vary with the crops grown
End land quality. Tenancy contracts for grain are usually for one year, for
cther crops up Lo 5 years.  In 11970, che average cash rent for wheat land was
about TL 400/ha. The 1972 cash rents for irrigated cotton land in Adana and
Denizli provinces varied from TL 1500-3000/ha 1/. In grain production,
tenancy arrangements are less common than sharecropping, where the owner pro-
'.-ides land and seed and receives 50% of the output. Observations have con-
firmed that such contracts put the tenant in a rather unfavorable position
and provide few incentives to improve farming techniques. Combined owner/
sharecropper systems tend to result in higher yields from the owned portion
compared to the rented portion of the land.
6.        Another productivity constraint is the excessive fragmentation and
dispersion of land holdings caused by inheritance laws under which real pstate
is divided between heirs. More than half of the holdings are made up of six
or more parcels.
7.        Although agrarian reform in Turkey began in 1926, a land reform
law was passed only in July 1973. This law fixes maximum size limits for farms,
varying according to climatic and soil conditions. In November 1973 Urfa, a
province in southeastern Turkey, was selected as a pilot area for land reform
implementation and the expropriation of land started in November 1974. The
appointment of an Undersecretary for Land Reform in Mlay 1975 may indicate the
Government's increased interest in this field.
1/   N. Ramachandran:  Agricultural and Industrial Development Policies in
Turkey. A review, OECD, Paris 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Farming Techniques and Farm Inputs
8.        Compared to many other developing countries with similar levels of
GNP/capita, farming techniques in Turkey are rather modern, including the use
of tractors, combine harvesters and fertilizer (Tables 6 and 7). In 1973,
160,000 tractors were in use in Turkey, i.e. one tractor per 156 ha cultivated
land.  Turkey has one tractor factory and five assembling plants, with a 1974
production of 35,000 tractors. This production could be increased since these
plants operated at only 73% of capacity. In view of the strong demand for
tractors, resulting in a large black market. their use is expected to increase
at a rapid pace provided more roreign exchange is made available to import
prefabricated parts. The utilization of tractors seems to be relatively high
because custom work is common. Although the employment effects of tractors
are generallv negative, substantial yield increases can be observed. mainly
due to more timely and accurate land preparation.
9.        In 1973, about 10,000 combine harvesters were in use in Turkey,
most of them owned by contractors operating throughout the country. The
average area harvested per combine is estimated at 350 ha resulting in a total
area of 3.5 million ha, which is about 25% of the total grain area. Small and
remote fields are harvested by conventional methods.
10.       A portion of the fertilizer used in Turkey is being produced within
the country, as shown below.
NitroMen                            Phosphate
Production  Import  Consumption    Production   Import  Consumption
-------------------------- '000 tons ------------------------------
1973          642        2,145     2,049            550        1,653      1,645
1974/1        920        1,280     2,200          1,015          545      1,560
/1 Estimate.
Source:   SPO.
Fertilizer use per ha of agricultural land (excluding fallow and pastures)
has averaged about 115 kg of nitrogen plus about 82 kg phosphate. Assuming
average N and P205 contents of 22% and 18%, respectively, the total fertil-
izer consumption can be regarded as reasonably high. However, due to lack of
credit, most of the fertilizer is being used by wealthier farmers in irrigated
agriculture, while most Central Anatolian farmers use only about half the
amount recommended. Fertilizer has been an important factor in the rapid
increases in productivity of cotton and sugarbeet over the past decade (paras
29 and 30 and Table 2) and to a lesser extent, it has also contributed to
higher cereal yields, mainly in the coastal. areas. In the marginal rainfall
areas, fertilizer has been introduced slowly since high yield increases can
only be expected in years with adequate precipitation.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
11.       The use of insecticides, herbicides, pesticides, and improved seed
is hampered by lack of credit, particularly in poorer regions such as in Central
Anatolia. Other constraints are the lack of technical advice for farmers and
the limited availability of improved seed.
B. Policies and Strategies for Agricultural Development
Agricultural Policy
12.       The Turkish Government exerts a strong influence on agriculture.
The main instruments used to achieve this are price policy for farm commodities
and inputs, export and import regulations, credit policy and publicly-financed
investments. Over the last two decades, agricultural policy has emphasized in-
creased production and exports, mainly through price structures and investments
in irrigation systems. While the overall growth rate of agriculture has been
satisfactory the price policy has failed to contribute significantly to welfare
goals. On the other hand, former policy accentuated regional disparities by
penalizing producers of crops with sharply fluctuating yields. This is
particularly true for wheat producers in Anatolia (para 27). This policy has
also discouraged productivity gains and shifts in production, especially to-
wards livestock and livestock feed.
Price Policy
13.       Forces of supply and demand play a limited role in determining
agricultural prices in Turkey, since many agricultural commodity prices are
under the comprehensive control of the Government. As of May, 1975 minimum
support prices apply for wheat, cotton, hazelnuts, tobacco, sugar beet,
raisins, dry figs, sunflower, tea, rice and, to a limited extent, for beef.
Direct intervention is not practiced for fruits and vegetables, livestock
feeds and milk, but, of course, their prices are influenced by intervention
in other product prices and by other policy measures. Minimum support prices
are specified annually (though frequently much too late to influence producers'
decisions) by a decree of the Council of Ministers. The decisions are based
on recommendations of the State Planning Organization (SPO) and the other
agencies involved. In recent years research institutes have been asked to
provide background information (such as production costs) in pricing various
commodities. However, the pricing decisions are strongly influenced by poli-
tical considerations. The respective agency (see below), is directed to buy
all available quantities at the floor price, and Government provides funds
to cover the operating losses of the agencies involved.
14.       Wheat prices are supported by the Soils Product Office (TMO), a
State Economic Enterprise (SEE), which purchases about 10% of total annual
cereal production and sells the wheat at a fixed (positive or negative) margin
to flour mills. TMO also handles all imports, storage and distribution of
cereals. The remaining 90% of cereal production is sold by farmers to the



ANNEX 1
Page 6
private sector at prices generally higher than those paid by TMO. Purchases
of sugarbeet are handled through the Sugar Factories Corporation (TSF), which
is a long-established and powerful SEE (Annex 5). It has a monopoly on sugar-
beet purchases, processing, retail sugar sales and imports. Turkish State
Monopolies are responsible for purchases and exports of tea and tobacco. The
Meat and Fish Organization (MFO) another SEE, buys about 10% of cattle, sheep
and goat production (Annex 5). Because of management problems and an alleged
lack of resources, its influence on the livestock sector is limited. Price
intervention for cotton, hazelnuts, dried figs, olive oil and sunflower is
handled by sales cooperatives. The Union of Cooperatives for each commodity
concerned acts as an agent for the Government by purchasing all commodities
offered at the minimum price from both members and non-members. For all
commodities mentioned, prices vary with quality. There are, however, no
regional variations in support prices except for cotton and tobacco.
15.       Ceiling consumer prices for certain food products, such as bread,
milk or meat, determined by municipal authorities in several big cities, are
another influence on farm prices. There are, however, wide variations between
different cities.
16.       The table below shows the development of major support prices for
commodities of average quality.
Year
1970     1971      1972     1973      1974
----------------TL/kg------------------
Wheat                       0.85      0.99     0.99      1.20     2.10
Cotton                      2.75      3.29     3.64      5.80     7.80
Hazelnuts                   7.50      8.50     8.50      7.90    13.50
Raisins                     2.80      2.92     2.92      7.00    10.00
Dry Figs                    2.00      2.35     2.60      4.20     5.50
Sunflower                   1.80      2.00     2.20      2.50     3.75
Sugarbeet                   0.20      0.20     0.20      0.30     0.40
Tea                        :3.50      4.00     4.00      4.50     6.25
Tobacco                     8.35      9.04    10.60    13.21    23.11
After a period of stagnation or moderate price increases in 1970-1972, prices
rose dramatically in 1973-1974. These increases, substantially above the 1973
and 1974 inflation rates (20-30%), have resulted in heavy subsidies and, in
the case of cotton, in stocks which had to be exported at a price well below
the purchase price.
17.       In general, the price control system has been implemented effective-
ly. Because of the high subsidies required for some commodities (such as
cotton in 1974), provision of sufficient funds has sometimes caused problems.
Although overall growth rates for agriculture have been reasonably good, the
pricing system has failed to achieve a balanced growth, with certain commodi-
ties, such as cotton, tea or hazelnuts benefiting from the pricing system, and



ANNEX 1
Page 7
others such as grain and livestock suffering from it. However, the future de-
velopment of agriculture will only partly depend on price policy for farm out-
puts. Input availability and prices, credit availability and provision of
an adequate extension service are equally important.
Farm InEut Prices
18.       Prices of tractors and fertilizer are also determined by Government
through the Farm Supply Organization (TZDK), an SEE. TZDK is responsible for
procurement (including imports) and distribution of both tractors and fer-
tilizer. It also operates one tractor assembly plant. Because of limited
availability, tractors and fertilizer, are not traded on free markets. Farm-
ers can buy those inputs from TZDK only if they meet specified requirements,
such as minimum areas of arable land. Physical distribution is being car-
ried out partly by TZDK itself, partly by other agencies, and if purchases
are on credit, by TCZB and its credit cooperatives. Except for the period
August, 1974 to April 1975, fertilizer prices were kept at low levels (Table
7B), e.g. farmers' purchase price of urea in April 1975 was at 80% of the CIF
price. Similarly, tractors are sold to farmers at relatively low prices
$4,500 for a locally assembled 40-50 hp tractor). As a consequence of low
prices combined with limited availability, black markets have developed for
both fertilizer and tractors with farmers paying up to 120% of the official
prices.
Enport and Import Regulations
19.       Because of continuous strains on the balance of payments, Turkey
exercises strict regulation of exports and imports. Exports of agricultural
commodities including processed foodstuffs are generally promoted by sub-
sidies, such as tax rebates and interest subsidies for exporters and manu-
facturers. Tax rebates vary between 10% and 30% of the export value depending
on the commodity concerned and the firm's export volume. Exporters' interest
rates on working capital are reduced by 3% and for investment capital by 6%.
On the other hand, Turkey imposes some restrictions on exports. To provide
an adequate domestic supply of basic consumer goods, exports are restricted
for several commodities (e.g., meat, beans and cheese). For other commodities
(e.g., hazelnuts and tomato paste), the Government has established minimum
export prices in order to maximize foreign exchange earnings. As a result
of such restrictions, export possibilities for some commodities (tomato paste)
could not be fully exploited, thus causing a negative effect on Turkey's for-
eign exchange earnings and a build-up of stocks.
20.       Imorts are also strictly regulated.  A complex system of duties
and taxes leads to high domestic prices for many consumer goods. Food imports
are mostly carried out by SEEs (see para 14) and subject to licenses issued by
the Ministry of Commerce.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Credit Policy
21.       Through the Agricultural Bank (TCZB) 1/ the Turkish Government pro-
vides virtually all the institutional credit to agriculture, which is made
available to about 50-60% of all commercial farms. As a result of relatively
low interest rates for both deposits and loans compared to the prevailing in-
flation rate, credit supply cannot meet credit demand so that it needs to be
rationed. Interest rates that farmers have to pay are generally below those
for commercial credits (farm credits 11%,, agroindustries credits 11-14%O other
eommprrial rrei-itq 18-2291) 9/! although the administration cost for agricul-
tural credit is generally higher than for commercial loans.
Public Investments
22.       The Turkish Government has continuouslv provided funds for various
investments in agriculture (Table 11). Of these, irrigation is the largest
single category covering 30-50 of total investments. In view of the large
irrigation potential still to be realized in Turkey, this allocation seems
justified.
Agricultural Development Strategy
23.       The Third Five-Year Plan (1973-1977) aims at achieving the agricul-
tural growth rate of 4.5% p.a. through substantial fixed capital investments,
which would raise the sector's productivity. With this aim, the Plan provides
for an investment of TL 33 billion (12% of total) in agriculture, of which
53% would be in the public sector and the remaining 47% in the private sector.
The main development strategies under the plan are to; (a) induce investments
in projects with short gestation periods and low capital-output ratios, (b)
allocate credit for investments and inputs consistent with overall Plan ob-
jectives, (c) adopt a price policy which leaves incentives for farmers and
yet protects consumer interests through selective government intervention and
(d) focus public agricultural services such as research, extension and market-
ing along the stated priorities of the Plan.
24.       Projected agricultural growth rates during the Third Plan appear
optimistic in the light of the negative (-1.6%) rates for 1973 and 1974
brought about bv adverse weather conditions. However, despite the bumper
crop in 1975 and the expected 10% growth rate, annual values of 3% for the
Third Plan appear more realistic. Due to the tight world food situation and
the sharp decrease in foreign exchange reserves there will, nevertheless, be
even more Government emphasis on agriculture especially in the production of
livestock and exportable goods (such as fresh and processed fruits and vege-
tables) in order to improve the balance of payments.
1/   See Annex 2 and 3.
2/   In several cases interest rebates of up to 7% are being granted.  For
details see Annex 2, Table 1.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Pro ect's Contribution to Agricultural Development
25.       The investments to be financed under the project are in line with
the Third Plan and the Government's latest priorities for agricultural devel-
opment. Specifically, the agroindustry component would contribute to increased
agricultural exports and induce larger production of fruits and vegetables.
The Supervised Credit Program (SCP) component would make more credit available
for on-farm investments and inputs with emphasis on grain production in
Central Anatolia. The livestock fattening element would benefit the less
developed eastern regions of Turkey and increase meat production and supplies
which are needed to satisfy a growing domestic demand. The project would
also generate sizeable non-quantifiable benefits such as expanding and
strengthening the technical support staff of TCZB, securing a more purposeful
coordination between agricultural research and extension, creating new entre-
preneurial and technical skills, improving existing financial feasibility
analysis methods, providing more efficient training programs, and improving
the organization of project agencies.
C. Production and Marketing
General Development of Agricultural Production
26.       In the 1950's, agricultural production grew almost exclusively as a
result of expansion in the crop area, as yields increased only slowly. After
1960, expansion of cultivated area and of livestock numbers slowed down marked-
ly and came almost to a standstill in the early 1970's. Cereals and livestock
have experienced the lowest productivity increases, and as a result, the share
of the central and eastern Anatolian regions in total production has declined.
Some statistical figures on production development are given below:
Share in Production
1962            1972
(% of total agricul-      Index of
tural production)         Output
Total Agriculture                    100             100           141
Crops                                 65              68           147
Livestock                             31              30           132
Share in Production
1962            1972
(% of total crop Pro-      Index of
duction)             Output
Cereals                               47              41          129
Industrial Crops                      22              26          174
Vegetables                             4               5          170
Fruits and Nuts                       18              20          162



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Cereals
27.       Production-  Cereals account for about 75% of the area sown and
40% of the value added by crop production. WIheat covers 67% of the area
planted to cereals. Over the last decade, Turkey's cereal production has
fluctuated greatly (table 2), mainly due to varving yields in rainfed agri-
culture. Increases in wheat production from 1961 to 1973 can be mainly
attributed to a large expansion of the wheat area. Yields increased only
moderately until 1971 and dropped sharply thereafter due to unfavorable
weather conditions. Because of a lack of competitive crops in rainfed areas.
the land planted to cereals is not heavily dependent on price changes. Gov-
ernment's recent increase in wheat buying prices (para 14) coupled with re-
duced fertilizer costs (para 18) could however lead to the desired intensi-
fication of wheat production, especially in Central Anatolia. If present
input/output price relations were maintained for some years, the Plan's tar-
get for raising national wheat yield averages from 1.2 to 1.6 tons/ha could
be achieved. Although wheat yield fluctuations are expected increase from
a range of 0.8 to 1.6 tons/ha to 1.0 to 2.2 tons/ha, thereby increasing
farmers risks, the proposed project would increase Turkey's cereal production
by providing credit for integrated farm development, fertilizer and other
modern farm inputs.
28.       Marketing:  In recent years, Turkey has not been able to export
grain, with the exception of barley (Table 8), and there have been some wheat
imDorts in years of poor harvest. In 1974, 1.5 million tons of wheat were
imported comprising about 6% of the country's total import expenditures. In
view of the rapid population growth and the shortage of new crop land which
could be planted to wheat, Turkey will find it difficult to increase wheat
supply commensurate with the proected demand.  The anticipated supply gap
for barley and other feed Ggrains is even larger than for wheat since, with
growing per capita income, livestock feed requirements will increase rapidly.
Therefore, no marketing problems are anticipated for the project's incremental
cereal production which would amount to only 0.2% of Turkey's 1974 wheat and
barley production and which would be used entirely for import substitution.
Industrial Crops and Oilseeds
29.       Production-  Cotton, sunflower, sugarbeet, tobacco (and others)
cover a large portion of Turkey's most fertile and mainly irrigated land (see
Table 2). Further yield increases are possible, provided additional ferti-
lizer and other inputs are used. Most of the cotton competes with high-
yielding wheat and vegetables. Farmers are profit-oriented and respond
quickly to price changes with the result, that in 1974 because of the rise
in cotton support price they produced a heavy surplus (para 16).
30.       Sugarbeet and Sunflower   Production grew rapidly during the last
decade (Table 2). For sugarbeet this was due mainly to a 50% yield increase
resulting from effective agricultural extension and credit services, while
sunflower output quadrupled, aainly in line with area expansion. TSF has



AMNEX 1
Page 11
recently assumed responsibility for sunflower production in sugarbeet areas.
Future sugarbeet production which TSF can manipulate through acreage allot-
ment is expected to grow at a slower pace. Production of sunflower, other
oilseeds and industrial crops is also expected to increase further. Invest-
ment and input credit under the proposed project is likely to contribute to
the expected production increase, especially in non-sugarbeet areas where in-
sufficient credit has been a constraint.
31.       Marketing:  A high percentage of cotton (72% in 1973) used to be
exported. Since 1974, however Turkey's cotton industry has been facing severe
export problems because;
(a) world market prices have dropped dramatically and;
(b) Turkey has experienced inflation rates higher than world
inflation and there has been no corresponding devaluation
of the Turkish Lira.
As a consequence, Turkey's cotton producers have difficulty competing with
farmers in countries with relatively lower inflation. The 1974 cotton stocks
were partly sold at low prices in early 1975. To avoid high storage costs
and subsidies to wealthy farmers, the Government will have to be careful in
determining future support prices. Although no crop is explicitly excluded
from SCP credits, the proposed project is not expected to have a substantial
impact on cottor. output.
32.       Sugar consumption has been growing at a rapid rate necessitating
some sugar imports in 1975 and incremental sugarbeet production would be for
import substitution. Sunflower is processed generally in small oilmills for
the rapidly increasing local consumption. Approximately 83% of the tobacco
production was exported, accounting for 10% of Turkey's 1973 total export
earnings.
Vegetables, Fruits and Nuts
33.       Production.  Turkey, with its climate, soil and irrigation resources,
has potential for expanding both fruit and vegetable production, however, the
industry is still in an early stage of development. The total vegetable pro-
duction area increased from 416,000 ha in 1968 to 530,000 ha in 1973 (Table 1),
comprising a substantial part of the total irrigated area. More detailed in-
formation on production 1/ is given in Table 4. Melons and watermelons rank
first in quantity though production has stagnated at 3.5 million tons. In
contrast, tomato production increased rrapidly from 1.3 to 2 million tons,
largely through improvements in yield. Production of other vegetables, except
green beans, pepper and cauliflower, has grown more slowlv.
1/ No information about areas and yields is available.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
34.       The proposed project would help increase vegetable production, es-
pecially by using greenhouses and plastic tunnels for early vegetable cultiva-
tion mainly in the Mediterranean region. Because of the mild climate of this
region, harvest time for early vegetables is sooner than for those grown in
most parts of Italy and Spain, giving Turkey a substantial comparative ad-
vantage. (For detailed data, see farm models in Annex 3, Table 7).
35.       The area planted to fruit and olive trees and vineyards has been
expanded by about 50% since 1961 and most of the increase was in orchards.
Although grape production ranks first, there has been almost no growth
sincee9   (Table 3).  In contrast, apple production, which ranks second,
has experienced continuously high growth rates, while growth in citrus
production was also high until 1968. However, production almost stagnated
thereafter. Yields per tree are lower than those of competitive countries and
efforts are being made under the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
TU 762/257 to increase yields and improve quality. Turkey, as the world's
largest exporter of hazelnuts, sells about 38% of its annual production abroad.
Olive oil is a major export commodity with about 50% of total production being
sold abraod. Nuts and olive oil production, however, are characterized by heavy
yearly fluctuations in yield (Table 3). Although productivity has increased
there is still scope for further growth through improved management and tech-
nical and credit services which wotuld be provided under the project.
36.       At full development, the project would increase Turkey's citrus
productionl by 0.6% and tomato and cucumber production by 0.2%. However, in
value terms the latter figure would be much higher since prices for early
vegetables grown in greenhouses and plastic tunnels are two to three times
higher than conventionally grown vegetables which are marketed later.
37.       The contemplated investments for storing, cooling and processing of
fruits and vegetables would have a significant impact on Turkey's present
processing capacities and raw material requirements:
Incremental        Incremental
Processing        Raw Materials
Agro-Industry Facilities                    Capacity as % of    Required as %
Envisaged under the Proiect                 1974 Capacity    of 1973 Production
Tomato Paste Plants                                15                  3.3
Citrus Concentrate Plants /1                      13                   5.0
Grape Juice Concentrate Plants                    10                   1.0
Cold Stores and Packing Houses                   N.A.                 10.0
Olive Oil Plants                                 6.7 /2                2.6 /2
/1   Includes frozen concentrate, no plants exist at the present time.
/2   As percent of average 1972 and 1973 production.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
38.       Marketing.  Turkey with relatively high income elasticities of
demand (0.6 for vegetables and 0.8 for fruits) consumed in 1973, about 85 kg
of grapes, 20 kg of apples and 15 kg of citrus products per person. However,
per capita consumption of vegetables followed the fluctuations in production
varying between 90 and 150 kg. Since most fruits and vegetables have been
consumed fresh, processing, storing and cooling of fruits and vegetables have
been of minor importance. However, during the 1970s, with the construction
of tomato paste and juice concentrate plants, production of tomato paste,
citrus and grape juice concentrates has increased to where 18, 36 and 10%
respectively of the domestically produced raw materials can be processed.
39.       Commercially operated refrigerated cooling and storing facilities
have been practically nonexistent in Turkey in the past. However, five cold
stores and fruit packing houses being financed under the Fruit and Vegetable
Export Project L/C 762/257 TU are expected to become operational in 1976.
40.       Unlike the situation with nuts and olives (see paragraph 35) ex-
ports of fresh fruits and vegetables have been erratic and for some commodi-
ties such as grapes, have been declining during the early 1970s (see Table 10).
The 1972 and 1973 exports of some fresh commodities as percentages of the
respective total production are shown below:
Exports as % of Total Production
1972                         1973
Lemons                      38                           64
Oranges and Tangerines        7                           6
Grapes                       0.4                          0.3
Apples                        0                           0.2
Onions                        3                           3
Tomatoes                     0                             1
Hazelnuts                   50                           46
41.       The decline and/or stagnation of fruit and vegetable exports has
been attributed to a number of causes including:
(a) The lack of cold storage and packing facilities.
(b) Until recently, the fleet of refrigerated trucks and trailers
was too small to transport sizeable quantities of fresh fruits
and vegetables to Europe and the Middle East. However, the
situation has improved with the procurement of 155 trailers in
1974 under the L/C 762/257 TU.
(c) Since 1973, Turkey has experienced substantially higher inflation
rates than those prevailing internationally. As devaluations of
the Turkish Lira have not kept pace with inflation, exporters
have been facing difficulties competing with other suppliers.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
(d) Turkey's exports to the EEC are subject to higher duties than
those from some other non-EEC suppliers, although the Government
has compensated by granting rebates up to 30% of the market
value to exporters and processors.
(e) Increased domestic demand with corresponding high prices competing
for fresh fruits and vegetables.
(f) The inability of Turkish exporters to adjust the overall quantities
offered in particular markets as a result of sharply varying
price situations. The lack of homogenous quality, standardization,
brand promotion and representation needed to compete with other
supplying countries.
42.       The incremental fruit and vegetable production of the proposed proj-
ect to be financed under the SCP is estimated to be about 3,900 tons of citrus
and 5,500 tons of early vegetables. About 25% of this production would be
exported and the balance would be absorbed by the increasing domestic demand.
A major portion of the proposed investments in Agro-Industries would be for
facilities to cool and store fresh fruits, and these facilities, in addition
to those for storage of about 5,000 tons of apples at the farm level provided
under the SCP project, would make significant quantities of apples available
to meet the increased demand of Iran and the Arab countries. The proposed
RO/RO ferryboat would increase transport capacity and reduce the dependence
on more costly over-the-road transport (Annex 6). The incremental juice
concentrate production (2,600 tons citrus and 5,900 tons grape and other
fruit juices) would be mainly for export. Market prospects appear favoarable
both in Europe and several Arab countries.
43.       It is expected that of the incremental olive oil production gener-
at,ed by the proposed project, about 50% of Grade A oil will be exported with
the balance of the Grade A and all of the Grade B oil being consumed locally.
In view of the high growth rates of both population and income, market prospects
appear to be good.
Livestock
44.       Production.  Annual rates of growth of livestock products were 2.6%
and 3.2% for the 1st and 2nd Five Year Plans, respectively compared to the
targeted 5.6% and 4.8% (3rd Plan estimates of 5% are also not being achieved).
Some reasons for this inadequate supply lie in the poor availability and high
costs of feedstuffs, which combined with demand rising faster than supply led
to shortages and rapid increases in prices of livestock and livestock products.1/
45.       Cattle numbers are expected to rise to 13.8 million by 1978, a rise
of 9% from 1971. Dairy cows are expected to increase by about 15% over the
same period but not to compensate for the forecasted fall-in beef cow nunbers.
1/   Economic Development of Turkey Vol. III, 1974 IBRD.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
These figures reflect a switch to dual-purpose breeds and the development of
milk processing facilities.
46.       The principal cattle and sheep rearing regions are in the eastern
provinces (North East particularly), sheep being raised for milk as well as
for mutton and wool. Overgrazing and the ensuing undernutrition of livestock
is reflected in low dressed carcass weights (Annex 5). Turkish beef produc-
tion aims to increase the rate of removal of animals from pastures, most of
which are communally-grazed. These animals would be fattened on forage and/or
crop residual-based diets to produce a live animal of over 200 kg after an
intensive feeding period. A major emphasis is being placed by Government,
through the State Planning Office, on improving livestock production. This
is reflected in the third 5-year plan and in recent price regulations im-
plemented to satisfy both consumer and producer.
47.       It is difficult to determine the relative effect of the increase
on total beef and veal production as statistics vary considerably depending
on the source. It is estimated that inspected slaughterhouses handle one-half
of total domestic production (97,000 tons of beef). Therefore, the expected
12,500 ton of beef resulting from this project would represent an increase of
6% over the present estimated total of 200,000 tons (Annexes 3 and 5). Feed
mills needed to complement the beef fattening component in the eastern pro-
vinces are also envisaged under the project (Annex 4).
48.       Production of whole milk (excluding milk suckled) has increased
steadily since 1961. With the marked increase expected in milk yields per
cow and the increase in the number of dairy cow, whole milk production by
1978 is expected to rise by 43% over 1971 with the largest increases occurring
in the years 1976-78.
49.       Poultry numbers have increased from 29 million in 1965 to 37 mil-
lion in 1973 with an increase in poultry meat and egg production.  However
the relatively high income elasticity of demand for poultry show that it is
still considered a luxury item.  Poultry has also been affected more than
the other livestock sectors by the rapid rise in feedstuff prices.  The Bank
project (SCP, Annex 3) could increase production of eggs by 2% (50 million)
over 1973 values.
50.       Marketing.  The income elasticitv of demand for meat in Turkev is
0.93, consisting of beef and veal 0.8, mutton and lamb 1.0 and poultry 1.5.1/
In recent years Turkev has passed from a net exporter of live cattle, beef and
veal (12,000 tons carcass equivalent annuallv from 1969 to 1971) to a net im-
porter in 1973 (1,000 tons carcass equivalent). However domestic consumption
has traditionally absorbed almost all production and this situation is not
expected to change in the foreseeable future. The demand for live animals
for slaughter in the Moslem countries to the east and south of Turkey has
traditionally resulted in active often illegal exports. The desired expansion
1/   FAO "Agricultural Commodity Projections 1970-80"'.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
of beef and poultry production for domestic consumption could increase the in-
take of animal protein in the diet. In 1974, estimates of per capita total
meat consumption in the villages and rural areas were 13.5 kg/year of (of
which 3.7 kg was beef) and 20 kg/year in the cities (of which 7.0 kg was beef).
51.       Traditional livestock marketing practices have not improved the
supply-demand problem. A large proportion of cattle are still slaughtered
off pasture in the earlv fall due to lack of feed and credit for over-
wintering, thus resulting in low carcass weights. Inadequate slaughtering
and cold storage facilities often result in long delays for the producer
before his animals can be slaughtered and this often requires unscheduled
feeding or actual weight loss. The two slaughterhouses and cold storage
facilities envisaged under this project (Annex 4) would alleviate this sit-
uation to a certain extent.
52.       The above traditional marketing difficulties resulted in severe
seasonal fluctuations in producer prices for cattle until recent Government
price support was implemented, with only partial success, in 1974. These
problems are often compounded by the large distances between the areas of
production in the East and the large population centers of Ankara and the
West. The transportation of live animals often results in up to a 10%,' weight
loss en route. However, the very large reservoir of livestock in the east has
acted as a supply buffer to these market vagaries over the long-term and this
will form the basis of the predictable expansion of meat production in Turkey.
53.       Cattle fattened under this project would be slaughtered by the
Government-owned Meat and Fish Organization (MFO), 1/ which handles about 10%
of live cattle and sheep slaughterings in Turkey. The remainder are channelled
through private or municipal premises. The MFO marketing arrangement involves
contractual agreements (Annex 5), guaranteed minimum prices and fixed dates of
slaughter to the cattle fattener. The farmer does have flexibility to market
his animals elsewhere, although future contracts would be difficult to nego-
tiate.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
LAND IJSE, 1961-1973
Area Cultivated                               Tree Crops, -Tineyards and Vegetable Area
Year
Li                   ~~~~~~~/2                                  L
Sown           Fallow           Total      Vegetables   Vineyards            Fruit         Olive Groves    Total    Forest        Meadows and         Wasteland
Area           Land                                                           Trees                                                 Pastures          Lakes and
Marshes
-1,000-hec-ares-m-ll-----ec-t----r-----------------------------------1,000 hectares---------------------------------------___________ million hectares
1961    15,128         7,948            23,976          -           775               793               586          2,154    10,584          28.8                13.1
1962    15,167         8,093            23,260          -           802               816               599          2,217    10,584          28.6                13.1
i963    15,276         8,5147           23,923          -           794               824               607          2,25    lu,584          28.3                13.1
1964    15,367         81476            23,843          -           800               832               636          2,268    10,584          28.3                13.1
1965    15,294         8 262            23,556          -           800               862               643          2,305    10,584          28.2                13.1
1966    15,454         8,528            23,982          -           930               888               606          2,424    10,584          28.0                13.1
1967    15,515         8,383            23,898          -           840               900               674          2,414    12,578          26.1                13.1
1968    15,400         8,692            24,092        416           848               938               723          2,925    18,273          26.1                13.1
1969    15,848         8,824            24,672        445           838               951               726          2,964    10,273          26.1                13.1
1970    15,589         8,705            24,294        448           845             1,019               731          3,043    18.273          26.1                13.1
1971    15,924         8.603            24,527        451           847             1,044               740          3,082    18.273          26.1                13.1
1972    16,047         9,896            25,943        530           850             1,052               751          3,183    18.273          26.1                13.1
1973    16,061         8,952            25,013        530           816             1,153               775          3,274    19,136           NA                  NA
L  The vegetable area was included in the area occupied by fruit trees until 1968.
/2 Tea area included.
/3  Estimates of forest area inzlude actual measured area for Antalya, Balikesir, Bulu, Canakkele, Denizli, Isparta, Mugla and Zonguldak provinces and pre-
liminary estimates of other unmeasured provinces.  The much higher figures after 1967 are the result of new forest inventories completed in 9 of the 23    H 
forest conservancies.
Source:  State Institute Df Statistics.



APPRAIsAL OF                                                             ANNEX 1
Table 2
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AiN) A*:1?O'Ai'tUS'iRES PROJECT
TURKE{
MAJOR FIELD CROPS:  AREA SOWN PRODUCTION AND YIELD - i96l-1974I
C E R E A, S                                                N D U S        T R I A L    C ' 0 P S
Sun
Vear        Total       Wheat       Barley       Pulses          Total       Tobacco       Sugar Beet         Cotton       Flower       Potatoes
A R E A  S O W N
_  __-----__---1,000 Ha---------------          -------------------------------------Hectares-------------------------------------------
1961       12,865       7,717       2,786        586,850      1.009,489    140,025            130,344          649,oo0    117,600         147,0oo
1962       12,965       7,800       2,800        585,394      1.027,921    149,346            125,739          66o,ooo      81,300        136,, o
1963       13,017       7,850       2,850        564,389      1.098,352    235,669            134,585          628,485      94,co0        14C,.oC
1964       12,930       7,870       2,750        562,439      1.214,023    272,06g            186,750          680,o00    16C,oOC         145,00C
1965       12,960       7,900       2,770        552,163      1.129,805    222,062            157,749          685,ooo    16c,000         145,00>
1966       12,974       7,950       2,710        555,853      1.209,511    284,945            153,254          712,000    218,000         '50,
1967       13,013       8,000       2,725        551,328      1.220,899    297,149            149,578          717,600    215,000         15. ,00-
1968       13,131       8,250       2,730        544,763      1.160,069    273,717            126,539          712,835    2410,000        148, oor
1969       13,475       8,66o       2,697        543,699      1,107,576    314,840            102,637          638,520    286,ooo         157,0>','
1970       13,324       8,600       2,590        533,500      1.025,907    328,498            123,838          527,635    360,000         155,0 C
1971       13,325       8,700       2,600        536,030      1,223,403    335,627            159,C12          688,415    396,Dco         169,oocO
1972       13,185       8,730       2,530        603,760      1.298,241    352,383            149,468          76,147      495,000        1--,00(
1973       13,305       8,850       2,550        616,200      1,184,572    322,727            153,204          677,261    481,000         120,03,i
1974         NA         8,500       2,580          NA              NA          NA               NA               NA        425,000        185,00'
PRODUCTION
---------------'000 Tons-------------           -----------------------------------Tons---------------------------------------------------
1961       12,636       7,00O       2,948        592,006      3,210,172    101,407          2,877,113          212,000      96,700      1,40 5,-,U
1i62      14,618        11,450      3,500        586,o65      3.,149,638     89,793         2,730,932         245,C0o       60,000      1, 4,Cr',
1963      17,400       10,000       4,298        607,527      3,815,285    132,183          3,280,715          257,500      87,000
1964       13,488       8,30o       3,200        583,484      5,302,057    193,668          4,705,783          326,000    165,000       1,70,O0O
1965       14,670       8,50(       3,300        589,166      3,935,4181    132,374         3,421,353          325,000    160,000       1       u
1966      16,411        9,60')      3,800        588,462      5,014,617    164,197          4,422,085          382,000    200,000       1, 5o,,00
1967       16,869      10,00(       3,800        610,127      5,877,268    189,259          5,253,492          396,055    230,000       1,760,000
1968       15,882       9,520       3,560        594,393      5,356,923    163,038          4,715,578          435,282    230,000       1,805, -0c`
1969      17,100       10,500       3,740        591,374      3,938,230    145,592          3,356,41172        4o00,00o    310,000      1,936,000
1970      15,882       10,000       3,250        561,800      4,846,243    149,861          4,253,631          4oo,oo0    375,000       1,915,000
1971      20,799       13,500       4,170        619,410      6,676,923    173,861          5,956,176          522,000    465,000       2,100,000
1972      18,638       12,200       3,725        665,200      6,642,445    179,799          5,896,042          543,554    560,000       2,200,000
1973      15,603       10,000       2,900        589,253      5,759,264    130,275          5,095,157          512,827    560,o0o       2,200,000
1974      15,603       11,000       3,330          NA             NA          NA               NA                NA        L20.000      2,275,000
---------------------------------------          -----------------------YIELD KILOGRAM//H TiECIA-------------------------------------------
1961          982         907       1,058          1,009          -             721            20,990              326         822          9,558
1962        1,127       1,083       1,250          1,001          -             6oi            21,719              371         738         10,876
1963        1,336       1,273       1,504          1,076          -             560            24,376              410         925         11,426
1964        1,113       1,054       1,163          1,037          -             711            25,198              479       1,031         11,724
1965        1,132       1,076       1,191          1,o67          -             596            21,688              474       1,000         11,586
1966       1,265        1,208       1,402         11,059          -             576            28,855              536         917         11,667
1967       1,296        1,250       1,394          1,107          -             637            35,122              551       1,070         11,733
1968      1,209         1,154       1,304          1,090          -             596            37,266              611         958         12,196
1969      1,268         1,212       1,392          1,088          -             46o            32,702              626       1,084         12,331
1970      1,199         1,163       1,255          1,053          -             456            34,348              758       1,042         12,355
1971       1,561        1,552       1,604          1,156          -             518            37,457              758       1,174         12,426
1972       1,414        1,397       1,472          1,102          -             510            39,447              715       1,131         12,571
1973       1,173        1,130       1,137            956          -             404            33,257              751       1,164         12,222
1974        NA          1,294       1,290           NA            -             NA              NA               N>T           988         12,297
Li Data for 1974 is provisional.
Source: State Institute of Statistics.



Al '1'AJ':;AL
AN AG;RICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRoINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
PRODUCTION OF MAJOR NtJTS AND FRUITS - 1961-1973
iTons)
Year       Walnuts       Hazelnuts      Chestnuts      Apricots       Plums      Apples    - Pears       Grapes       Figs      oranges/.  Mandarines/l  Lemons L   OlivesLi
1961        80,500          76,ooo         38,400         37,000      93,200     282,800    145,200   3,189,300    203,700        178          34           70         689
1962        84,930         122,380         35,260         34,020      89,270     321,900    132,660   3,382,270    210,040        188          27           74         290
1963        82,090          88,440         31,640         29,400      96,840     326,655    151,570   2,692,870    208,190        257          42           77         618
1964        86,ooo         195,215         32,000         38,000      98,800     337,000    142,640   2,790,000    206,000        253          29           37         694
1965        81,000          62,000         33,000         30,000      91,298     362,000    134,000   3,350,000    210,000        300          35           78         394
1966        80,000         190,000         30,000         17,800      84,600     440,000    135,000   3,100,000    215,000        310          50           84         8140
1967        88,000          71,000         34,0oo         53,000     101,750     640,000    165,000   3,500,000    232,000        380          65           go         4s95
1968        96,ooo         138,00(         43,000         55,000     104,600     700,000   180,000   3,725,000    215,000         476          56          130         822
196Q        R4,ooo         170,()00        p5,500         50,0^C       9,c5o     620,000    160,000   J,635,00o    215,000        414          60          121         307
1970       103,000         255,-000        48,ooo         52,000     119,000     748,ooo    180,000   3,850,000    214;000        445          68          126         681
1971       110,025         166,ooo         48,ooo         34,000     110,600     780,003    175,000   3,853,000    195,000        460          75          142         326
1972       113,400         190,000         50,600         63,000     130,700     850,000    196,000   3,434,000    216,000        467          97          149       1,019
1973        98,000         250,900         52,000         77,000     124,000     850,000    195,000   3,344,ooo    190,000        470          84          122         333
/I In 1000 tons.
Sourcee State institute of Statistics.
w 



APPRAISAL OF                                ANNEX 1
Table 4
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Vegetable Production'2
-Tons t'00-
1968      1969       1970       1971       1972      1973
Leafy or Stem Vegetables
Cabbage                         388.5      383.1     410.0      427.0      435.0      400.0
Black Cabbage                    85.1       96.9     150.0      162.0      163.0      181.0
Artichokes                        3.2        3.5        4.0        5.0       4K0        6.0
Celery                            9.8       12.1      15.0       13.0       12.6       i4.5
Head Lettuce                     11.2       10.0       16.0      13.0       17.0       16.6
Leaf Lettuce                     54.3       43.0      50.0       52.0       48.0       31.0
Spinach                         105.0      106.3     123.0      117.0      150.0      105.0
Leek                            239.5      272.3     300.0      306.0      306.0      258.0
Warden Orach                      1.3        1.3        1.6        1.3       1.4        2.4
Purslane                          1.1        0.5        0.5       0.7        0.8        0.4
Subtotal                     899.0     929.0   1,070.1   1,097.0   1,137.8   1,014.9
Leguminous Vegetables
Green Beans                     148.6      190.4     250.0      246.0      300.0      200.0
Green Peas                       26.2       30.8       31.0      34.0       30.0       29.0
Green Broad Beans                41.9       53.7       50.0      53.0       48.o       53.0
Calavence                        20.4       36.6       50.0      50.0       58.0       60.0
Subtotal                     237.1     313.5      381.0      3'3.0      43 .0      342.0
Fruit Bearing Vegetables
Melons-Watermelons            3,600.0   3,498.9   3,490.0   3,470.0   3,550.0   3,130.0
P.'p'1ns                         23.3       24.0       36.o       36.o       34.0      40.0
Squash                          299.0      300.4      285.0      304.0     300.0      270.0
Cucumbers                       334.0      368.3      400.0     415.0      434.3      360.0
Eggplant                        406.2      472.5      480.o      494.0     520.0      460.0
Okra                             12.1       12.5       15.0       15.0       i4.0      15.0
Tomatoes                      1,346.9   1,558.9   1,810.0   1,900.0   2,000.0   2,050.0
Sweet Pepper                    147.1      150.7      144.0      154.0     186.0      175.0
Green Pepper                    107.8      139.4      163.0      176.0     154.0      170.0
Subtotal                  6,276.4   6,525.6   6,823.0   6,964.0   7,192.0   7,670.0
Root, Bulb and Taberous-Vegetables
Green Garlic                      6.9       11.7        6.6        8.0       11.2      10.0
Green Onions                     62.9      106.5       68.o       65.0       74.0      80.0
Carrots                          45.0       42.0       40.0       40.0       41.0      40.0
Horse Radishes                   15.3       15.8       16.0       16.0       13.0      11.0
Red Radishes                      4.9        5.4        4.8        5.0        4.C       9.0
Jerusalem Artichokes              1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        1.4        1.2
Subtotal                     1362      71827       136.6     135.2      144.6      151.2
Other Vegetables
Cauliflower                      23.0       23.L       28.0      29.0       36.o       41.0
Total                      7,571.7   7,973.8   7,737.7    ,0.2                    ,2191
L. For potatoes see table...
Source. State Institute of St tistics.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
NUMBERS OF LIVESTOCK AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION, 1961-1973
(in '000 head and in tons)
Year     Cattle     Buffaloes      Sheep     Ordinary    Angora    Camels      Horses     Donkeys      Mules     Hogs      Total
Goats       Goats
------------------------------------------------------- '000 head ------------------------------------------------------------
1961    12,097       1,140        33,307     18,101      5,048       56        1,305       1,6
1962    12,662       1,160       31,614      16,420      5,655      53         1,23                     28        8       70:99
1963    12,704       1,166       32,279      15,918      5,587      48         1,171       1,888        205      11       70,976
1964    13,211       1,202       32,654      15,599      5,563      46         1,210       1,918        216      17       71,637
1965    13,203       1,216       33,382      15,305      5,500      46         1,199       1,971        225      18       72,o65
1966    13,769       1,253       34,663      15,315      5,617      43         1,204       1,986        238      i6       74,104
1967    14,165       1,248       35,878      15,200      5,459      43         1,183       1,965        259      14       75,413
1968    13,761       1,257        36,587     15,187      5,450      42         1,151       1,986        273      14        75,708
1969    13,189       1,178        36,351     15,336      4,931      39         1,110       1,936        290      18        74,378
1970    12,756       1,117        36,471     15,040      4,443       31        1,049       1,805        299      20        73,031
1971    12,653       1,026       36,760      14,752      4,111      29         1,027       1,760        301      18        72,437
1972    13,045       1,039       38,806      14,820      3,643      25           962       1,701        312      12        74,365
1973    13,236       1,023        40,093     15,062      3,638       21          936       1,616        302      13        75,940
M I L K  P R O D U C T I O N                                  M E A T  P R O D U C T I O N                                 Egg
C'ows        Total                   Sheep      Lambs -    Goats      Cattle      Calves       Total          Production
----------------------------------------------------T)---------------------ons---------                                  (in '000)
1961   2,102,480    4,034,590                52,370     17,580      17,580    66,300      12,630       177,714          1,308,033
1962   2,349,310    4,066,610                51,310     16,260      15,760    70,550      13,830       181,042          1,349,947
1963   2,350,590    4,058,540                43,550     21,420      17,060    66,020      12,900       178,180          1,335,043
1964   2,436,600    4,134,800                45,450     15,950      18,780    62,094      13,366       171,293          1,359,462
1965   2,446,ooo    4,158,000                46,953     17,317      18,016    65,563       13,747      177,837          1,478,894
1966   2,590,000   14,322,000               149,076     18,504      18,394    73,294      15,336       191,921          1,455,319
1967   2,666,ooo    4,1426,000               46,852     19,586      17,272    66,814      14,716       183,806          1,536,189
1968   2,664,ooo    4,451,000                48,415     20,092      15,563    69,398       17,612      189,781          1,760,010
1969   2,609,000    4,381,000                51,990     23,033      16,952    77,361      21,271       211,891          1,828,268
1970   2,551,000    4,302,000                54,092     28,131      19,643    72,426      22,927       219,042          1,914,044
1971   2,535,000    4,280,000                54,265     25,874      21,874    67,277       19,253      207,687          2,131,361
1972   2,558,000    4,358,ooo                44,581     26,458      18,746    56,769       19,426      181,422          2,461,750
1973   2,747,000    4,591,000                41,904     24,906      17,170    60,837      20,830       181,103          2,557,852
Source:  State Institute of Statistics, Turkey.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
NUMBER OF FARM MACHINES
D r i 1 1 s
Year    Wooden Ploughs  Iron Ploughs    Disk liarrows       Tractors     Trailers      Combines                Grain                        Cotton           Beet
,illion        -----------------------------'---------------------------------------------------------_--_-_--_____---__
Horse     Tractor                Total
Drawn     Drawn
1961         2.1           1,159              18             42            26            6           NA          NA                    35       11           1.4
1962         2.1           1,210              18             44            27            6           31           9                    40      13            1.8
1963         2.0           1,237              19             51            31            6           31           9                    40      17            6.2
1964         2.0           1,323              21             52            33            7           32           0                    42      17            5.8
1965         2.0           1,380              22             55            37            7           37          13                    50       19           5.7
1966         2.1           1,445              28             65            44            7           33          12                    45      20            6.7
1967         2.1           1j446              29             75            52            8           40          14                    54      23            8.1
1968         2.0           1,447              32              -            61            8           35          15                    50      23            8.4
1969         1.9           1,447              37             96            80            8           41          25                    66      25            7.5
1970         2.0           1,552              42            106            93            9           40          25                    65      26            8.1
1971         1.8           1,520              54            116            97            9           38          19                    57      30            8.7
1972         1.8           1,507              54            138           113            9           39          21                    60       33           7.6
1973         1.6           1,480              61            156           133           10           39          25                    64       34           7.6
Source: State Institute of Statistics.
0 Jo
(DX
aA 



ANNEX 1
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
A.  PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS OF TRACTORS AND COMBINE HARVESTERS
TRACTORS                                COMBINE HARVESTERS
Domestic                                  Domestic
Year          Production       Import       Total       Production        Import      Total
1971            15,660            301      15,961          135              180         315
1972            22,819          3,286      26,105          46o              408         86P
1973            21,813          3,9947     25,760          825              282       L,11
Scurce:  Ministrj of Agri2ulture.
B. FARMERS' PURCHASE PRICES FOR FERTILIZER
----------------------------------- TL/kg------------------------------------ ---------
May 1973          August 1974         Since
- July 1974         March 1975       April 1975
r=non-'iuni sulfate (211 x)                    0.60                1.88             >.25
Ammonium nitrate (20.5%o N)                      0.60               1.33              1.25
Ammonium nitrate (267, iU)                       0.71               2.91              1.50
Superphosphate (16-18%o P205)                   0.45                i.14             0.75
Triple Phosphate (43% P205                      1.00                2.03             1.75
DAP (16% N, 48%o P205)                          1.81                4.40             2.90
TJrea (46%, N)                                   1.l',              3.5k'             2.73
Composed (20%o N, 20% P?05)                                         , 3.86           2.75



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRI('uLTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Ma,-or Agricultural. Exports
A. Quantities
Hazel-  Dry      Dry                                   Wool            Mandarins
Year   Barley  nuts    grapes  figs  Tobacco  Cotton Cattle Sheep Fleece  Lint  Oranges   Lemons Eish
...    .    ...     .........    ......     .........................  noo. ......... .'0 tons  ..... ....    ...    .  .    ......     ................. ......    . .......... .
1063    58.0    4l.2       66. 4  26.9    43.0   13h .9   .1        .6    4.2   7.2       12.2      11.9   6.0
1964    35.5    48.6f    52.2  25.4    55.2   151.6'  .09           .4   )I-8   3.0        7.3       6.)4   7.1
1965             56.8      65.2  29.4    64.8   175.3   .10         .IJ    3.7  14.6      25.3       5.5  10.6
1966             52.1      68.0  27.8    R1.7   236.2   .OI.    .2    1.P   3.2           23.1      '7.   10.3
1967      .7    71.3       72.2  32.1    00.1   223.2   .05        .2    2.0   3.2       2)4.2     10.0   6.0
1968             64.5      7)4.1  32.2    81.3   252.4   .02        .3    2.0   3.6       32.0     25.5   6.9
1 960           82.7      75.P  28.1    7n.5   241 .J4  .ok       .2    1.?   1.2       I,0.4     2)4.4   8.8
1970             63.f      69.1  28.8    33.8   341.1   .ok         .14          2.0      28.3      22.9   0.3
1971     T.7    65.3       86.1  32.4    32.4   312.5   .07         .14          2.5      59.5      42.0   7.3
1972    114.2    94.1    11U.7  32.5   1214.5   297.1   .02         .3           2.6      41.2      56.2   7.3
1.973            914.5     85.5  33.5   108.14  368.7
1974     _      113.9      59.1  24.6   112.4   183.2   .05         .2           80       31.6      73.3   R.
B. Values
Hazel-  Drv      Dry                                   Wool            Mandarins
Year   Barley  nuts    grapes  figs  Tobacco  Cotton Cattle Sheep Fleece  Lint  Oranges    Lemons is.s                       TOTAL
..... .............................................. .............................................TLmilions...........
1963    25.6   482.4    149.5  52.7   598.1   705.6 55.3    70.7   30.5 115.2             10.14     12.6  14.2             2,322.8
1964    20.8   4I49.2    150.8  5)J.9   807.7   793.8 42.8    5).3   41.3  53.14           8.o       7.1  17.6             2,501.7
1965      _    541.7    192.5  63.3   802.9   891.1 63.7    64 .7   30.5  79-.            26.8       6.5  26.3             2,789.0
1966      _    492.8    198.5  60.0   962.3 1,140.0 35.4    27.7   15.7  60.0            26.7      20.3  29.3              3,068.7
1967      .7   741.3    204.1  65.1 1,059.4 1,156.8 26.7    33.3   18.7  57.5             30.8      26.7  22.2             3,W443.3  
1908      _    683.7    2n3.0  62.6   853.14 1 ,252.1 18.0    67.?   17.1  (1 .2          42.1     33.1J  39.3             3,333.1      (D
1969      _    968.8    205.1  61.6   733.1 1 ,022.1 514.7    39.8  107.8 1n7.8          53.0       52.8  1C.7             3,417.3
1970            939.7    218.3  84.7   781.5 1,788.3 7P.3    97.6          -   43.1       56.9      48.9  69.6             4,206.9
1971     5.4 1,057.2    273.5 111.5 1,064.7 2,425.6 07.9   1 5.5           _   62.6    11).0    105.7 12)4.6               5g9Q.1
J,-?    33.5 1,514.7    395.9 128.6 1,701.5 2,487.2 142.9  11h.3                72.7      81.f    159.7 13C.C              6'89  6
1973     _   1,650.4    766.0 223.9 1,782.8 )1,11C.3   _                       _-                                         l _  _  ,5633.14
1974     _   2,394.2    718.3 238.7 2,838.0 3,)4U3.2198.1   216.14             61 .0     71.3    283.6 13.8              10,618.6



APPRAISAL OF                               ANNEX 1
Table 9
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Exports of Vegetables
A. Quantities
Pota-  Toma-                                  Cauli-
Year   toes   toes   Onions   Cabbage   Carrots   flower   Garlic             TOTAL
.... tons.
1961    -        -       53         -        -          -         -            53
1962   117.0    -        82         -        -          -         -           199
1963    -      216.0   11i          -        -          -         -           327
1964    52.0   17.0   100           -        -          -         -           169
1965 3,683.0   10.0   108           -        -          -         -         3,791
1966   188.0   13.0   143           -         -         -         -           344
1967    29.0   59.0   383           -        -          -       459           930
1968    12.5    -   1,156         o.6      14.0        1.0      752         1,936
1969 5,433.0    3.7   550          -         -          -       714         6,701
1970 5,775.0   66.0   210         1.5       2.5        1.5      984         7,041
1971 1,797.0    2.0 1,977          -         -          -    1,474          5,250
1972 4,919.0    9.0 2,368           -        -          -       299         7,595
1973 18,768.0   24.0 2,483         -         -          -       155        21,430
B. Value
-ota-  Thma-                                  Cauli-             TOTAL       TOTAL
ea       _   Aoes    ts      Onons   Cabbage   Carrots   flower   Garlic  (TL _ OO.s) (us$looo)
.                            TL 000's   .......--
1961    -      145.0   46                 _-                     -       609         67.7
1962   139.0    7.0   753          -         -          -        -       899        99.9
1963    -      100.0   949          -        -          -        -       9)9        105.4
1964    23.0   14.0   776           -        -          -        -       813         90.3
1965 1,550.0    6.0   787           -        -          -        -    2,343         260.3
1966    85.0    9.0 1,045          -         -          -        -    1,139        126.6
1967    21.0   17.0   193           -        -          -   2,428    2,659          295.4
1968     6.3    -      596         o.4      5.7        o.9  3,839    4,448         494.2
1969 3,063.0    4.5   590          -         -          -   3,411    7,069         785.4
1970 4,529.0   99.0   510          1.6      3.0        2.4  3,974    9,119          793.0
1971 2,216.0    4.0 1,901           -        -          -   7,073   11,194         746.3
1972 5,587.0   28.0 2,640           -        -          -   1,979   10,234          731.0
1973 21616,c   44 S 4,474           --                  -   2,319   31,453       2,247 o
Source: Annual Foreign Trade Statistics 1961-1973



APPPAISjL 01
AN AGRIC ULIVRAL CREDIT AIM  AGP(INDUSTRTES PROJECI
TJRKEY
Exports of' Fruits
A. Quantities
Year       Oranges    Tangarines Total       Grapefruit Lemons      Grapes      Apples     Apricots   Peaches    Pears       Plums   Str-.bec _ !-  atermelons Melons    TOTAL
. .... ,.   ,.                                         ,.,                             tons ...   .........  ........................
I61        6,776         483      7,259          956    8,872       4,226          -          -       451.00       317         -                 -                 -       22,081.0
1962       3,415         414      3,829          745    9,999       6,258          -          -       971.00        14         -         3.4            -          -       21,819.4
1963      11,275         947    12,222           735   11,852       6,415          -          -       go4.oo        11         -         2.6            -          -       32,190.6
1964       4,221       3,100      7,321          995    6,390       5,012          -          -     2,046.00        64         -          -             -          -       21,828.0
1965      19,420       5,895    25,315         1,417    5,497       6,679          -          -       610.00        12         -         0.1            -          -       39,530.1
1966      14,)417      8,700    23,117         1,191   17,536       6,944          -          -        40.00         4         -          -             -          -       48,832.0
1967      1-.,24      12,079    24,203         1,667   26,650       8,035         346        21      1,790.00       -        35.0        0.8           3.5        36       62,787.3
1968      13,871      18,167(   32,038         1,695   25,456       6,175         295         3       451.00        -          -         2.2           8.0         -       66,123.2
1969      17,266      23,174    40,440         2,837   24,392      20,205         258         -         -           -         2.1         -            2.0        10       88,146.1
1970       6,726      21,567    28,293         1,051   22,928      18,320         494         7       919.00        -        26.0        1.6          71.0        49       72,159.6
1971      32,287      27,1B7    59,474         5,072   42,889      15,648         754         -         0.02        -          -          -          179.0        95      124,111.02
1972      14,847      26,383    41,230         2,382   56,172      13.956         312         5       ('  .oG       -        60.0         -          255.0         2      10O,156.0
1973      22,828       8,371    3',199         3,751   78,369       9,201       1,431        11         5.0C. 4              82.0         .008       120.0         1      115,177.0
124,171-o
B. Valuie
TOTAL      TOTAL
Year       Oranges   Tangerines  Total       Grapefruit Lemorns     Grapes      Apples     Apricots   Peaches    Pears       Plums  Strawberries WLterrollo2.  Melons      TL'OOO's  us$ '000
.         . ,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............................. TL , . . ...........TL          OOO's.
1961       5,893         608      6,501          811   lo,614       4,790          -          -       262.00      146          -          -             -          -       23,124.0   2,569
1962       2,794         413      3,207          602   11,937       7,023          -          -       932.0         6.1        -        14.0            -          -       23,721.1   2,636
1963       9,129       1,274    10,403           675   12,575       6,1774         -                1,121.0         8.o        -        42.0            -          -       31,639.0   3,515
1964       3,646       4,355      8,ool          951    7,o96       4,354          -          -     1,748.o        27.0        -          -             -          -       22,177.0   2,464
i965      17,953       8,875    26,828         1,330    6,540       6,390          -          -       544.o         7.0        -         0.2            -          -       41,639.2   4,627
1966      14,378      12,363    26,741         1,166   20,344       6,785          -          -        58.0         3.0        -          -             -          -       55,097.o   6,122
1967      12,485      18,311    30,796         1,859   26,650       7,728         452        140    1,463.0         -         32.0       7.5           1.2       13.0      69,141.7   7,685
1968      15,229      26,852    42,08'         1,901   33,411       5,648         381         17      359.0         -          -         7.5           3.4         -       83,808.9   9,312
1969      18,492      34,553    53,045         2,518   35,935      18,045         362         -          -          -          2.3        -            4.3        9.0      10,920.6  12,213
1970       9,090      47,850    56,940         2,113   48,907      22,713         850         50      659.0         -         33.0       0.8          39.0       56.o     132,368.0  11,510
1971      52,607      62,316   114,923        11,143  105,719      24,903       1,986         -           .07       -          -          -          218.0      152.0     259,o44.o  17,270
1972      26,836      54,780    8i,616         5,380  159,742      25,510         887         83      959.0         -        i48.o        -          362.o      197.0     274,885.0  19,635
1973      40,822      17,732    58,554         8,849  290,100      21,906       4,809        129       39.00        3.0      221.0       0.2         138.0        8.o     384,756.2  27,483
Source: Annual Foreign Trade Statistics 1961 - 1973
m Z
- m
0 



x\hF' L WSAL lA,)j
AN AGRICULiURAL CREDI1l Aiql AGROINROOCTRIES PROJECTI
iUORKE C
INVSTM7TS TN AGRTCIRT'TRR (CITRRENT PRICES)
1970                      1971                     1972                       1973                      1974                 1975
Planned    Realized      Planried    Realized      Planned    Realized       Planned    Realized        Planned    Realized       Planned
----------------------------------------------- TL mi31Iioni--------------------------------------------------_-______________
Irrigation and Drainage          1,770.0    1,540.0        1,650.0      1,708.0       1,901.0    1,755.0       2,060.0    2,255.0        2,810.C    2,725.0         3,625,0
Flood Control                        65.0        50.0          40.0        40.0          50.0        50.0         130.0       230.0         235.0       340o0         315.0
Land Conservatiorn                   70.0        40.6          35.0        39.3          44.1        45.0          75.0       123.0         110.0       135.0         285.0
Tractors and Equipment             8.'60.f      700.0        850.0        825.0         970.0       850.0      1,980.0    2,135.0        2,630.0    2,500.0         4,290.0
Orchards and Seedlings                90.o       60.0          70.0        65.0          70.0        70.0         155.0       175.0         380.0       315.0         530.0
Research and Extension              180.0       150.0         125.0       125.0         150.0       135.0         170.0       155.0         185.0       175.0         200.0
Building                             95.0        80.0          95 0        90.0         100.0        75.0         175.0       215.0         210.0       195.0         305.0
Marketing                            55.0        30.0          40.0        36.0          45.o        40.0          65.o        62.0         110.0       110.0         195.0
Breeding                             10.0         8.o          10.0        10.0          12.0        11.0          22.0        20.0          45.0         45.0         90.0
Forestry                            30.         318.0         25)0.0      250.0         363. 0      205.0         61.0       615.0         645.o       645.0         917.n
Fishery                             110.0        97.0         105.0        95.0         110.0       1(5.0         150.0       150.0         205.0       215.0         250.5
Others.                              38.0        32.7          70.0        46.1          43.5        50.0         129.8       235.0         124.0        144.0        285.0
Total                       3,683.0    3,106.3        3,340.0    3,329.4        3,859.0     3,451.0       5,732.8    6,385.0        7,689.0    7,444.0    11,267.5
Source: State Planning Organization.
s z
o-z



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
A. Organization and Structure
Legal Background
1.        TC Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB), the Agricultural Bank of Turkey, is the
largest credit institution in the country and fully owned by the Turkish
Government.  Besides the Central Bank and TCZB there are 41 other banks and
financial agencies in Turkey, including:
10 banks founded by special laws (as TCZB);
18 private commercial banks operating all over Turkey;
6 regional commercial banks;
5 foreign commercial banks; and
2 investment banks, the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey and
the Bank of Industrial Investment and Credit.
TCZB accounts for more than one-fourth of the total deposits of Turkey's
banking system and provides over 90% of the institutional credit to agricul-
ture.
2.        TCZB dates back to 1863, but was established in its present form
in 1937. It operates as a commercial bank, engaging in all types of banking
transactions, but its portfolio is specialized in agricultural lending; that
is, encouraging agricultural production and marketing, helping farmers in
the acquisition of land, lending to and investing in agroindustries, making
commercial loans, and extending credits to agricultural credit and marketing
cooperatives which are unique to Turkey in their operation and organization,
since they are closely related tco and under the supervision of TCZB.
3.        As a "State Economic Enterprise" (SEE), TCZB is under the jurisdic-
tion of the Ministry of Commerce and hence not free to determine its own salary
structure or bases for staff promotions.  However, it has a degree of autonomy
of action and is a profit-making organization. Its authorized capital is
TL 1,500 million as against a paid-up capital of TL 1,172 million on December
31, 1974. The Turkish Government has provided capital contributions of TL 785
million since 1937; additional TL 357 million after-tax profits of TCZB were
transferred to the paid-up capital during the past 37 years.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        TCZB's affairs are controlled and regulated by the General Meeting,
the Hligher Committee of Credit Regulation, the Auditors, the Board of Direc-
tors, the Managing Committee, and the General Mlanagement.
5.        Law No. 468 of 1964 established the General Meeting, composed of 15
senators and 35 members of the House of Representatives, to review the opera-
tions and annual reports of SEEs. The General Meeting's report is submitted
first to the Senate, and then to the House of Representatives for discussion
and subsequernt approval or reject-ion.  Approval absolves the Board of Direc-
tors from operational and accounting responsibility for the year examined.
Owing to time pressures and other priorities, the Turkish Parliament has not
acted on TCZB statements since 1967.
6.        TCZB's Higher Committee of Credit Regulation consists of the
Ministers of Commerce (Chairman), Finance, and Agriculture, and the Chairman
of the Board of Directors (who is also General Manager of TCZB). This Commit-
tee is responsible for establishing TCZB's overall policies and the annual
investment program, including its distribution by sectors, types of credit,
etc.
7.        The General Manager, as noted above, is also Chairman of TCZB's
Board of Directors, and two Assistant General Managers are Board members.
Two additional members are appointed by the Council of 1.Ministers upon the
recommendation of the Ministers of Finance and Commerce. Another member is
elected by TCZB's client agricultural credit cooperatives. The six members
of the Board of Directors -- all with voting rights -- are selected from
among persons trained and experienced in economics, finance, and law.
8.        The Board approves the investment and loan allocation budget pro-
posed each year. It is also responsible for setting higher bank policy, re-
gulating the flow of agricultural credit, establishing lending criteria, and
authorizing loan approvals in excess of TL 150,000. 1/
Auditing and Control
9.        Statutory external audit of TCZB is carried out by the High Control
Board (HCB), which is responsible to the National Assembly through the Prime
Minister's Office.  As provided by Article 61 of the Banking Law, Miiinistry of
Finance examiners also scrutinize TCZB's activities in the head Office as well
as its branches, mainly to determine whether Banking Law provisions are being
respected. The Central Bank exerts its control by means of regular reports
required of TCZB on loan portfolio, deposits, foreign exchange transactions,
etc.
1/   According to Law No. 3202 of 1937 (TCZB Law), the limit was TL 200,000.
However, the banking law of 1958 requests the Board's approval for all
loans exceeding TL 150,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       TCZB's Board of Inspectors and the Control Division are responsible
for internal auditing and control. The Board of Inspectors, which comprised
115 members in May 1975, engages in routine inspections of the 855 branches
and in investigations on special request. In 1974, 491 normal inspections
and 556 special investigations were carried out, in 1973 the figures were 510
and 727, respectively. Big branches are inspected in principle every year,
and small branches at least every third year.
11.       The staff of the Control Division (125 professionals) is concentrat-
ing on formal controls of credit transactions. About 100 controllers are per-
manently attached to the 14 biggest branches. The controllers in the Head
Office base their control on the monthly or quarterly lists and reports by
wlhich most of the branches give evidence of their credit operations.
Organizational Set-Up
12.       The General Manager and Eour Assistant General Managers are ap-
pointed by the Council of Ministers upon recommendation of the Minister of
Commerce. They direct TCZB's Ankara Hlead Office, organized in 32 divisions,
and a network of 855 branches providing nationwide coverage. Total banking
and specialized staff numbered 17,738 as of March 31, 1975.
13.       The branch managers report to the Head Office divisions concerned
(the latter acting on behalf of the General Management), and not directly to
the General Manager as the organigram (see annex chart) may suggest. There
is a limited decentralization of decision-making on a regional basis with
regard to loan approval authority of branch managers. Also, main branches in
big cities perform certain services for smaller branches, such as supplying
and receiving surplus physical cash and enforcing certain controls on behalf
of the Head Office.  All inter-branch transactions are handled through Head
Office accounts.
14.       The organigram in the annex chart may be changed after the position
of the Assistant General Manager B, vacant for several months, is filled. For
the time being certain functions, which might logically be assumed to be inter-
related, are in fact dispersed under different Assistant General Managers.
For example, the various credit divisions are spread under two Assistant
General Managers and the Secretary General. The Training Division and the
Staff Division are likewise divided. The Planning Division is only temporar-
i:Ly reporting to the same Assistant General Manager as the Budget and Program
Division, since the position of one Assistant General M4anager is vacant.
Accounting Procedures
15.       A large portion of TCZB's accounting is still done in the tradi-
tional manner, accounts being maintained in bound and often voluminous books.
Copying and transfer of totals and/or balances from the journal to individual



ANNEX 2
Page 4
accounts and to the ledger is niostly done manually. As a consequence, the
volume of work and staff requirements are enormous. And yet the information
offered by the accounting system is limited.
16.       In view of these insufficiencies, TCZB is modernizing its accounting
system and procedures. A decimal system of account classification has been
adopted. Accounting machines have been introduced in 57 of 855 branches for
deposit (but not yet for loan) accounts. A computer has been in use in the
Head Office since 1971, mainly for recording transactions within the network
of branches, monthly and quarterly balances of the branches' ledger accounts,
and various statistics. However, more and better use could be made of the
numerous staff employed (350 people in the Accounting and Computer Divisions
of the Head Office), of the existing technical facilities, and of the possi-
bilities offered by modern data processing.
B. Resource Mobilization
17.       TCZB's resource structure as of December 31, 1973 and 1974 was as
follows:
1971                 1974
TL Million   %       TL Miillion   %
Capital, reserves, provisions                 1,492    4.2          1,508    3.0
Bonds outstanding                                 17     -             11      -
Rediscounts with Central Bank                 7,415   20.9         15,764   31.7
Deposits                                     21,291   60.1         24,847   49.9
Other liabilities                             5,242   14.8          7,637   15.4
Total                              35_457  100.0        49,767  100.0
Deposits
18.       Deposits constitute the most important capital resource, and have
increased steadily in absolute terms (although declining as proportion of
resources, since 1973) even though interest rates offered for deposits are
unattractive in view of an inflation rate of between 20% and 30%.
19.       Interest rates for deposits are fixed by the Government.  In May
1975 their structure was as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Type of Deposit                                   Interest Rate Paid
(%)
Inter-bank deposits                                              0
Official deposits                                                1
Commercial deposits                                              2
Savings accounts                                                 3
Time deposits  3-12 months                                       6
13-30 months                                     9
31-36 months                                    10
37-48 months                                    11
More than 48 months                             12
20.        These rates are obligatory for all banks operating in Turkey.  The
rate for time deposits for more than 48 months (12%) may be fixed by a bank
up to 14%. However, according to an agreement within the Banking Union, banks
have decided to make no use of this possibility, and as a state-owned bank
TCZB respects this agreement.  Moreover, TCZB's on-lending rates, fixed by
the Government relatively low, would not allow for a sufficient spread if
TCZB paid deposit interests of more than 12%.
21.        The breakdown of deposits as of December 31, 1974 (given below)
shows that the bulk of time and savings deposits came from private sources,
while current deposits were maintained largely by the Government.
Amount
(TL million) (each group)
Time deposits:
Individuals                                  6,452            92
Government offices                             554             8
Others                                          24
7,030          100
Savings deposits:
(all private sources)                        8,203           100
Current deposits:
Government offices                           5,527            57
Commercial                                   1,922            20
Treasury                                       766             8
Banks                                          630             7
Others                                         769             8
9,614          100



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Rediscounts
22.       Rediscount facilities of the Central Bank are used extensively by
TCZB, and since 1973 have constituted the largest incremental resource. Most
of the rediscounts have been used to refinance loans to agricultural coopera-
tives, the bulk of it for Government-directed price support operations of
marketing cooperatives, as seen from the following breakdown of year-end 1974
rediscounts outstanding:
Amount
(TL Million)
Agricultural marketing coops                   11,355
Agricultural credit coops                       2,922
Credits from statutory deposits (para 25)         650
Commercial credits, etc.                          471
Medium-term agricultural loans and
advances                                        302
Commercial bonds                                   64
15,764
23.       The Higher Committee for Credit Regulation fixes the volume of
credits to be granted yearly by TCZB as well as the limits for the main credit
groups to be refinanced by the Central Bank, taking into account the pre-
vailing monetary policy, government's policies for financing of agricultural
operations through cooperatives and TCZB's needs. All kinds of short-term
credits may be refinanced up to these limits. For medium- and long-term
credits to be refinanced, the consent of the Central Bank is required on a
case-by-case basis.
24.       Rediscount rates and terms differ according to the type of credit
refinanced:



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Interest
Type of Credit                Rate        Rediscount Terms and Conditions
(%)
Commercial credit                   9       3 months; extensions exceptional.
Credits to agricultural credit
cooperatives                      8       3 months; extensions up to one year.
Medium-term agricultural loans      8       Corresponding to term of loans.
Credits to agricultural market-    9
ing cooperatives
General                           9       Up to one year; extensions up to
another year.
Export, production, and long-
term credits                   8
Export preparation credits          9
Advances on Export Documents
Low interest                      8
Others                            9
Agroindustry loans                  9       Corresponding to term of loan.
Advances against bonds             11       One year; extensions for additional
years.
25.       Aside from the above rediscount facilities, the Central Bank, under
the national priorities attached to agricultural development, may lend to
TCZB up to 20% of the statutory deposits maintained by all Turkish banks with
the Central Bank at 8% interest. After being under TL 700 million for a few
years, the level of such borrowings by TCZB had shot up rapidly in 1975, and
lhad practically reached the limit of TL 4 billion by October. The funds were
being used for lending to farmers, mainly for fertilizers, and were repayable
to the Central Bank in two years. There was a possibility of a later review
bY the Central Bank, to permit TCZB to retain some of these funds for speci-
fied longer terms.
Capital Subscription
26.       The Government is to contribute funds to TCZB in the form of capital
subscriptions in accordance with several provisions under law. Article 5 of
the TCZB Law provides for Government contributions to authorized capital (TL
1,500 million) of 1% of the aggregate estimated receipts scheduled in the
State's general budget. One percent of Government's estimated receipts from
1965 through 1974 amounted to TL :3,234 million; against this, the Government
actually contributed TL 134 million, the last such contribution having been
made in 1969. With the Government's tight budgetary situation, the above
Article 5 is likely to continue to be inoperative in future; the Government
will make its contributions in other ways.
27.       TCZB receives Government contributions according to various laws
providing for financial support from TCZB in connection with specific Govern-
ment supporting programs. TCZB was also entitled to receive 6% of land tax
revenues as Government capital contribution.  However, this provision resulted
in substantial contributions only up to 1971.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
28.       About one-third of capital subscriptions have come from transfers
of TCZB's profits, which require decisions of the Parliament. The last such
transfer was made in 1970, with effect on profits accrued up to 1966. Profits
accrued since 1967 are awaiting Parliament's decision. The total of accrued
net profits for the years from 1967 through 1974 amounts to about TL 570 mil-
lion. This amount increases TCZB's net worth at the close of 1974 from TL
1,508 million to TL 2,078 million.
Improved Resource Mobilization
29.       The Government and TCZB are aware of the need to increase TCZB's
capital. The Treasury has prepared a proposal for the Parliament, whereby
the authorized capital of SEEs could be increased by Cabinet decrees, with
actual increases effected through Budget law authorizations to the Treasury.
Once this is passed as a law, the capital of TCZB (one of the largest SEEs)
could be increased by Cabinet decree without the need for amending the TCZB
Act. In conjunction with the above, TCZB had drafted a proposal for increasing
its authorized capital from TL 1.5 billion to TL 5 billion, which is being
processed by the Government. Previous efforts to increase the capital of SEEs
through Budget laws had been frustrated by decisions of higher Courts, but the
proposed legislation is expected to overcome this obstacle. The need for
increased capital has become pressing for most SEEs, and the Government is
giving this matter high priority for legislation. If this law is passed, the
Government expects that the proce3s of transfer of TCZB's accrued net prorits
to capital will also be simplified.
30.       The controlled credit rate structure prevents state credit institu-
tions from mobilizing private savings on a meaningful scale. TCZB has had
moderate success ip attracting private deposits. However, its vast potential
in this field remains largely unrealized. The potential exists in two forms,
viz TCZB's network of over 850 branches, and its more than 2,000 client credit
cooperatives with over 1.3 million members. It exercises considerable control
over the management and operation of these societies, and uses them as a
primary channel for the provision of short-term credit to Turkish farmers.
However, very few of these cooperatives provide any financial services beyond
the extension of credit.
31.       Better credit decision-making could strengthen TCZB's portfolio,
permitting better forecasting of funds flows and diminishing the probability
of funds being tied up in overdue loans. Attention to timely collection sup-
ported by a more fully computerized accounting, could likewise free resources
for lending. An additional source of funds could be tapped by TCZB soliciting
deposits from its borrowers; at present such deposits are negligible.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
C. Lending Policies and Procedures
Allocation of Lending Resources
32.       Resources for lending are rationed according to the annual program
approved by the Higher Committee on Credit Regulation. There is no long-term
planning. The recommendations submitted to this Committee are presented by
TCZB's management. A basic requirement is that at least 80% of TCZB's lend-
ing be to agriculture. Within this limit, funds are rationed on the basis of
present performance and loan demand projections. For normal agricultural
credit, resources are allocated among branch offices on the basis of the
branch managers' yearly reports indicating the area of agricultural land
classified by land types and crop production in the branch territory, agri-
cultural development potential, number of livestock, and number of potential
borrowers and their estimated credit requirements.
Delegation of Loan Approval Authority
33.       The major limitation on the decentralization of loan decision-
making is the legal requirement in Turkey that loans in excess of TL150,000
(US$10,714) must be approved by a bank's board of directors. This requirement
is rigidly adhered to by TCZB and not interpreted to mean simply ex-post
board review and approval of commitments already made by management. Given
that members of senior management comprise half of TCZB's Board and that the
Board meets several times a month, this requirement per se does not materially
delay decisions. However, the system results in many loans being approved
above the branch level and hence involves delays caused by branch managers'
need to refer to higher levels in the administration. Inflation has, in
effect, reduced the degree of branch lending autonomy since the TL 150,000
limit was established in the 1950's, and it is logical to conclude that the
increase in the proportion of loans which require Board approval diminishes
the time the Board has available to devote to policy matters. Below the
TL 150,000 level, management's discretionary limits are scaled down from the
division chief level, provincial main branch level, first-class branch level
and second-class branch level. The pattern of lending limit distribution
varies according to loan types, but managers of second-class branches have
limits of TL 50,000 (US$3,571) or more for most types of facilities.
Loan Appraisal
34.       Agricultural loans are primarily appraised by assessing the value
of collateral offered by borrowers and their past repayment records. These
loans are referred to the local agents of the Ministry of Agriculture for
opinion and guidance. These agents play an important role in determining
farmers' short-term credit requirements. The field technicians actually check
farmers' requests for loans in kind, such as those for seeds, fertilizer, and
fuel. For medium- and long-term borrowers, they may assist in working out
loan projects in liaison with thie TCZB branch office. Forms for various types



ANNEX 2
Page 10
of investment loans are signed by the local representatives of the Ministry
of Agriculture and the representative of the branch. The forms, properly
filled out, provide the basic data and information to make loan decisions.
AA far as supervised Credit Program (SCP) loans are concerned, TCZB's super-
visors function in a similar way to the agents of the Ministry of Agriculture
(Detailed information on SCP is given in Annex 3).
35.       A Project Evaluation Section was established in 1969 in the En-
couragement and Development Division of the Head Office, to appraise loans
exceeding TL 500,000 (agroindustrial and farm development projects) or TL
100,000 (SCP loans). The Project Evaluation Section had a staff of 31 in
May 1975, of whom 23 were civil, mechanical and agricultural engineers, agro-
economists and economists. Recent project evaluation reports prepared by the
Section show that efforts are being made to apply modern methods of technical,
economic and financial appraisal. However, the need to improve evaluation
skills is obvious, not only in the Project Evaluation Section. Technical
assistance could speed up the necessary improvements.
Basis for Computing the Size of Agricultural Loans
36.        Except for supervised agricultural credit and Topraksu (land level-
ing and irrigation) loans which are based on the appraisal of farm projects,
short-term loans for farm operations are based on TCZB's standard credit limits
(in terms of fixed amount per decare under individual crops) and the land
area that the farmer-applicant proposes to devote to such crops. Marketing
loans are based on the weight of the produce to be sold (e.g. tobacco: TL 3
to 6 per kg).
37.        Seasonal operating loans are disbursed in cash and in kind, largely
through cooperatives closely affiliated with TCZB. Seeds, fertilizers and
fuel are given in kind in specified volumes per unit (decare) of land; cash
is provided in addition for pesticides, labor and other out-of-pocket costs.
Maximum per decare cash limits for a broad range of crops are as follows:
Cash Loan                              Cash Loan
Crop                                 Limit             Crop                  Limit
(TL)                                   (TL)
Sunflower                              60          Pistachio nuts             115
Legumes                                80          Hazel nuts                  25
Rice                                   90          Roses                       85
Cereals                                14-17       Figs                       115
Corn                                   30          Bananas                  1,150
Cotton (irrigated)                    175          Citrus fruits              575
Cotton (non-irrigated)                NA           Peaches                    150
Potatoes                              175          Olives                     175-200
Soya                                   70          Grapes                      90-230
Sesame                                 70          Strawberries               150
Peanuts                               100          Apricots                   175
Vegetables                            575          Other fruits               175
Tobacco                               175-275



ANNEX 2
Page 11
T'CZB's Lending Rate Structure
38.       The complex structure of interest rates charged by TCZB on loans
and the rates actually paid by borrowers are shown in Table 1. To TCZB's
interest is added, in most cases, an annual commission. TCZB's interest
rates are equal to or less than the ceilings set by the Government from time
to time, which vary according to the sector financed, loan purpose, (including
export prospects) and location of borrower. The difference between TCZB's
lending rate plus commission and the cost of funds to borrowers arises from a
system of levies by the Government (usually, a 25% financial transfer tax;
also mortgage charges and stamp duties as applicable) and selective rebates
made by Government. Therefore the cost of capital to borrowers is generally
higher than interest paid to TCZB, unless reduced sufficiently by the selective
rebates. In 1975 lending interest rates of TCZB ranged from 8.4% to 14%, plus
annual commissions in certain cases; the cost to borrowers ranged from 8% to
14.125%. Interest on regular agricultural loans was 10.5% plus 0.5% commission.
Types of Agricultural Loans
=39.      In the past five years TCZB's agricultural loans have been dominated
by lending to agricultural cooperatives, which grew especially since 1973, as
shown in Table 2. Loans to agricultural marketing cooperatives (closely af-
filiated with and supervised by TCZB) accounted for 61% of total loans out-
standing at the end of 1974, loans to credit cooperatives (likewise linked to
TCZB, for onlending to members primarily for seasonal operating purposes)
for 10% and normal annual agricultural production loans for 21%. Of the
remainder, less than 3% constituted supervised credit, and less than 0.5%
"encouragement and development" loans, including medium-and long-term loans
f'or purchase of equipment and livestock.
Repayment Schedules
40.       Repayment of medium- and long-term loans is scheduled in equal in-
stalments on principal, thus resulting in declining interest charges on
amounts outstanding and in declining annuities. Thus, the borrower faces the
highest burden of debt servicing during the first years, when the investment
is at best just starting to render incremental income. In later years, when
the operations financed by the loan are expected to make progress and to
improve the borrower's financial capacity, the loan requires only declining
annuities. A shift to equal annuities would be more in line with the borrower's
repayment capacity and could contribute to improved loan collection.
Loan Collection
41.       The extent of overdue loans signals tnat defaults on, or late re-
payment of, agricultural loans are serious problems of Turkey's agricultural
credit system (see Section D). The fast growing volume of TCZB's loan port-
f'olio and of the amounts in arrears indicate the necessity for an improved



ANNEX 2
Page 12
loan collection. The amounts of loans not collected compared to loans that
should have been collected vary considerably for the different kinds of loans.
During 1974 the following collections were made:
Not Collected
Collected         Amount        % of Due
Type of Loan               (TL million)   (TL million)        (%)
1.  Operating Loans                     2,079            1,525           42.4
2.  Marketing Loans                         72               3            4.0
3.  Loans to Water Products
Cooperatives                             7               4          36.4
4.  Machinery and Equipment Loans          818             312           27.6
5.  Productivity and Investment
Loans                                   4               10           71.4
6.  Land Acquisition and Develop-
ment Loans                              60              68           53.1
7.  Agro-Industries Loans                   16              45           73.8
8.  Rescheduled Loans                       50             123           71.1
9. Uncollectible Loans                       -               2           97.8
Subtotal 1-9                   3,106           2,092           40.2
10.  Supervised Credit Program
Loans                                 187              109           36.8
- Operating Loans                     (42)             (10)          23.8
- Investment Loans                   (124)             (77)          38.8
- Soil Conservation/Irrigation
loans                              (21)            (21)          50.0
- Rescheduled SCP loans                 (-)             (1)          78.1
11.  Loans from Special Funds                59              52           47.3
12.  Loans to Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives                        3,126                0            0.0
13.  Loans to Agricultural Market-
ing Cooperatives                    6,532           2,935            31.0
14.  Loans to the Agricultural
1 upply Organization                1,045                0            0.0
15. ~evelopment & Encouragement
loans                                 25                0            0.0
16.-' Loans from Govt. Budget Funds         247             266           51.9
GRAND TOTAL                   14,327          5_454            27.6
42.       Normally, first notice on a loan or an instalment falling due is
given by the bank branch concerned one month before the due date, either
directly to the borrower or through the Muhtar (vilIlage chief). A second
notice is given after the due date, asking for repayment within 30 days.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
43.       Loans are classified as overdue shortly after their due date. 1/
If loans must be paid back in several instalments and one installment is not
collected when due, the total loan outstanding (including installments not
yet due according to the repayment schedule) is considered overdue. Small
amounts of loans are periodicallv rescheduled 2/ - TL 126 millior and TL 77
mlillion in 1973 and 1974, respectively.
44.       Legal action is initiated when loans are more than one year overdue
o,r when other reasons reguire it (for example, dishonesty of the borrower).
Legal actiJW. means the initiation of procedures suci as a formal request to
t:he borrower to repay, and informing the legal authorities if the borrower is
unresponsive.  In most cases an arrangement between TCZPE and the delinquent
borrower is reached.  Only exceptionally will TCZB sell securities, especially
if land has been mortgaged.
45.       As of the end of 1974, over half or 52% of TCZB's overdue loans were
accounted for by loans to agricultural marketing cooperatives for financing
purchases against Government price support schemes, while another 38% was on
account of annual agricultural producticn loans. Over 18 of total loans out-
Standing were affected by arrearages.  Mlost of TCZB's lending to cooperatives
is Government-directed or on account of Government sponsored programs.  In
accordance with a law adooted in 'ay 1975, which is applicable to certain
public enterprises, part of TCZB's debts to the Central Bank on account of
loans to cooperatives have been consolidated and taken over by the Treasury
as of December 31, 1974, thus ameliorating the consequences of overdues. The
amount involved was TL 3.9 billion. consisting of TL 1.7 billion owed to TCZB
by marketing cooperatives and TL 2.2 billion by credit cooperatives.
D.  Financial Analysis of TCZB, 1964 - 1974
46.       The overall pattern of TCZB's operations during the 11 years under
review has been one of steady growth. Many balance sheet and income statement
relationships have remained relatively stable, one of the exceptions being
net worth, which has not grown commensurate with TCZR's total assets.
1/   Agricultural loans are considered overdue on the first day of the month
following the due date. Other loans are classified as overdue on the
next working day after falling due.
2/   Rescheduling means changes in scheduled repayment dates and reclassifying
of overdue loans as loans not yet due, after an agreement between TCZB
and the borrowers.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Balance Sheet
47.       Although capital and reserves (net worth, Table 3, Item 1.04) grew
by about 64% over the period under review, total liabilities plus equity in-
creased seven-fold (Table 3, Item 3.01). As a result, TCZB's debt/equity
ratio increased from about 6:1 to 23:1 between 1964 and 1974, if accrued net
profits for those years amounting to TL 570 million are included in the equity
for 1974.
48.       As the major lender to agriculture, a priority sector, TCZB has
access to massive rediscounting facilities with the Central Bank. During 1974,
rediscounts nearly doubled in absolute terms, their share in the capital struc-
ture increasing from 11.6% in 1964 to 20.9% in 1973 and to 31.7% in 1974. Net
Central Bank support to TCZB jumped to TL 11,570 million in 1974 (Table 6,
Item 1.14).
49.       Deposits are still the major capital resource, though their share
in the balance sheet total dropped from 60.1% to 49.9% during 1974. The com-
position of the main deposit groups - time, savings, and current - remained
fairly stable, with time and savings constituting about two-thirds of the
total (Table 3, Item 5.06).
50.       Loans outstanding grew at a compound annual rate of nearly 22% dur-
ing the 11 years reviewed, the two last years showing accelerated increases
of 43% (1973) and 47% (1974), mainly due to the surge in lending to coopera-
tives. While the proportion of total assets represented by loans remained
around 70% over the period (Table 3, Item 9.01), the proportion of arrears to
total loans outstanding has ranged from a low of 10% in 1967 to a high of 25%
in 1972 (Table 3, Item 9.03). The relative decrease of overdue loans in 1973
and 1974 should be seen in the context of the tremendous increase in the lending
volume; there is no evidence of this development being the result of TCZB's
more effective collections performance.
51.       The question of overdue loans requires special attention because:
(a) outstanding loans affected by arrears are now equivalent to over
three times TCZB's equity;
(b) bad debt reserves of 0.2% of overdues seem inadequate (Table 6,
Item 3.03), especially since about 80% of the overdue loans by
end of 1974 had been classified as "under legal action" (there
is no data available on the ageing of arrears); and
(c) between 1969 and 1974 loans written off annually have averaged
less than 0.01% of overdue loans, which seems to be extremely low,
suggesting the need for a thorough scrutiny of TCZB's practice
in this respect.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
52.       Writing off bad bebts is seldom done, and only after a decision by
the Board of Directors. Write-offs in comparison to overdue loans developed
as follows:
Debts Written Off
% of Loans
Year                         Loans Overdue        Amount         Overdue
(TL million)     (TL million)        (%)
1969                             2,006             0.129          0.0064
1970                             2,964             0.050          0.0017
1971                             3,168             0.014          0.0004
1972                             4,289             0.378          0.0088
1973                             4,904             0.167          0.0034
1974                             5,373             0.071          0.0013
Only 7% of the amounts written off during the last six years were agricul-
tural loans, though such loans account for the vast majority of the loan
portfolio and of overdue loans. rhis underlines TCZB's optimistic view with
regard to recovering outstanding amounts from agricultural borrowers.
53.       The share of agricultural loans in the portfolio was considerably
increased during the period under review. Whereas agricultural loans (Table
3, Item 6.02) accounted for 66% of total loans not yet due (Table, Item 6.04)
at the end of 1964, the proportion was 87% at the close of 1974. Overdue ag-
ricultural loans accounted for 94% of amounts in arrears (Table 3, Item 6.05).
Liquid assets including statutory deposits remained between 27% and 35% of
total deposits throughout the years reviewed (Table 6, Item 2.05).
Income Statement
54.       In analyzing TCZB's income statements, it should be borne in mind
that provisions for bad and doubtful debts as well as write-offs do not seem
to correspond to requirements or to generally accepted norms. Therefore it
is difficult to express an opinion on the real profitability of TCZB. Nominal
profitability has been moderate during the period under review.
55.       TCZB's published accounts show profits before corporation tax.
Before-tax profits declined between 1966 and 1971, increased dramatically in
1972 and 1973, and decreased slightly in 1974 (Table 4, 4.01). The same trend
was exhibited in the relationship between profits and net worth (Table 6,
Item 4.02). With the exceptions of 16.7% and 14.5% before-tax returns on
equity realized in 1973 and 1974, respectively, profits remained at 9% (1972)
of net worth or below throughout the period and averaged 6.9%. The growth in
return on net worth in 1972 and 1973 as well as the relatively high return
rate in 1974 (amounting to more than twice the average of the 11 years under
review) reflect the absolute increase in interest and commissions earned (Table
4, Items 1.01 and 1.02) coupled with a declining wage bill relative to gross



Page 16
banking income (Table 6, Item 5.03). However, in 1974 this effect was partly
offset by a comparatively fast growth in interest costs (Table 4, Item 2..3),
which were increased by 62% compared to only a 40% increase in gross banking
income (Table 4, Item 1.06). Consequently, net banking income in relation to
total banking assets (Table 6, Item 4.17) was reduced in 1974.
56.       The relationship between the total wage bill and gross banking in-
come (Table 6, Item 5.03), slightly declining in 1972 and 1973 and considerab-
ly decreasing in 1974, is superficially commendable; however, management has
openly complained about the difficulty of holding good people in junior posi-
tions because of unattractive salary scales imposed on State Economic Entar-
prises. Perhaps more attractive salaries would reduce staff turnover in the
short run and increase institutional vitality in the long run.
57.       TCZB income from banking assets ranged from 7.1% to 8.8% over the
period (Table 6, Item 4.15), while the costs of banking assets remained be-
tween 3.1% and 5.0% (Table 6. Item 5.09). These costs include taxes and du-
ties paid (Table 6, Item 5.07), a major proportion of which is in respect of
the financial transactions tax, which may be conservatively considered a cost
of obtaining resources. Net banking income ranged from 3.1% to 4.1% of total
banking assets (Table 6, Item 4.17).
Sources and Uses of Funds
58.       The cash flow presentation in Table 5 has a format which is intend-
ed to reflect management priorities, suggesting that profits plus increases
in deposits and capital subscriptions are the primary resources at management's
disposal. Some of these resources are absorbed by statutory deposit require-
ments, by the accumulation of loans in arrears, by liquidity requirements, and
by retirement of bonds outstanding. The remainder is considered to be avail-
able for profitable lending and investing, and increases in lending create
a further possibility to obtain resources through use of rediscounting facili-
ties. Changes in other assets and liabilities as well as profits/losses of
previous years (see Table 5, footnote) and investments in fixed assets balance
out the funds available or required after lending and investment.
59.       The cash flow statement shows that management has had an increasing
amount of funds at its disposal (Item 2.03) and that the proportion of these
funds absorbed by statutory deposits (Item 3.02) and by increases in loan
arrears (Item 3.04) has varied greatly from year to year. Changes in liquid
assets (Items 4.01 and 4,02) have likewise fluctuated widely, leaving a highly
variable funds flow available for lending and equity investments (Item 5.01).
The volume of loans not yet due has increased by widely fluctuating amounts
(Item 6.01), and changes in the level of rediscounts (Item 6.02) have likewise
been erratic. Equity investments (Item 6.05) have increased only marginally,
since during most of Lhe period TCZB has been prohibited from making such
investments except to increase the capital of enterprises in which it is al-
ready a shareholder.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
E. Needs for Strengthening TCZB
60.       The need for a thorough review of TCZB's organization, policies,
olperations and finances has been recognized. As indicated in the main text,
t1he TCZB Management will undertake studies in order to prepare a program of
improvement. The terms of reference for the studies will be developed in due
course. While in no way anticipating the scope of these studies, the follow-
ing is an indication of the main areas of improvement as assessed during ap-
praisal (they are summarized in the text).
61.       Strengthening Structure.  Appropriate changes in TCZB's organization
and administrative procedures should be directed to improving its effectiveness
as a development institution and to enable it to cope with expanding activities.
Proven organizational principles, such as delegation, clarity and simplicity,
should guide the restructuring of its head office. Logically related functions
should be united under one supervisor.
62.       Loan approval authority should be decentralized.  In particular,
'the requirement that loans exceeding TL 150,000 need Board approval should be
revised. This would speed up loan process4ng. It would also allow the Board
to devote more time to policy matters.
63.       Accounting Principles and Precedures.  Review- of these areas should
lead to the establishment of divergences between TCZB's accounting practices
and generally accepted accounting ?rinciples, and proposals for short run and
long term changes, within the Turkish system. Particular efforts should be
made to introducing proper portfolio evaluatior., valuation of overdues and
write-off policy.
64.       TCZB should make better use of its accounting staff, of the existing
technical facilities, and of the possibilities offered by modern data proces-
sing. Computerized accounting should provide:
-    detailed information on the loar portfolio3 especially a
breakdown by age of loans overdue:
-    an early warning system for reminding borrowers of their
repavment obligations and for systematic loan recovervy
-    timely financial statements and other essential information
as required for management nurDoses.
65.       Internal Auditinz.  TCZB's Board of InsDectors should be strengthen-
ed to intensify and expand internal auditinQ.  The routine audits of the
branches should be revised with a view to ohtaining detailed information on
overdues and collection procedures. ard steps taken to remind delinquent bor-
rowers.  Each branch should he audited once a year.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
66,       Improved Resource Mobilization.  The need for TCZB increasing its
equity base is discussedl in the main text. TCZB should explore possibilities
to use branches to mobilize rural private savings; and its client credit co-
operatives as a base for expanding banking services in rural areas. This
would require adequate training of the cooperatives' staff in procedures
relating to savings accounts and other banking transactions. TCZB should also
try to increase its deposit relationships with borrowers.
67.       Project Appraisal.  TCZB's appraisal capacity needs strengthening,
in view of present weaknesses and expanding lending activities. The applica-
tion of modern appraisal techniques should ensure that:
(a) Projects financed by TCZB are technically feasible, financially
viable, commercially sound and economically justified, and
markets and processing facilities for their incremental pro-
duction are available;
(b) Projects will generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service, taxes and reinvestment needs and achieve adequate
financial rates of return; when determining the loan amount,
due consideration should be given to the financial require-
ments, considering investments in fixed as well as in current
assets.  Repayment schedules should be based on realistic
estimates of project cash flows and borrower's repayment capa-
cities. TCZB should shift from the system of declining an-
nuities to equal annuities.
(c) Borrowers have a satisfactory financial condition and structure.
68.       To ensure uniform appraisal criteria and reduce arbitrariness of
field staff, TCZB should introduce standard procedures and norms for:
-    farmers' or other subborrowers' contribution towards investment
cost taking into account differing down payment capacities of
small and big farmers;
-    repayment schedules, based on cash-flow projections that
take into account farmers' need to use a portion of the
incremental income for basic necessities; such a method
would give longer loan repayment periods to smaller farmers;
-    investment costs, crop pattern, yields, production cost,
incomes and repayment capacity by region.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
69.       Loan Arrears and Collection.  The need for studying and remedying
TCZB's seriouis arrearages situation has been discussed. TCZB should introduce
a loan supervision system and more effective collection procedures to improve
resource mobilization 1/ and borrowers' credit discipline. The information
system should provide a breakdown of arrears by age, separately for principal
and interest, as of December 31 of every year, starting with 1975.
1/   A reduction of the amounts overdue as of December 31, 1974 (TL 5.4 bil-
lion) by only 5% would mobilize TL 270 million, equal to TCZB's increase
in net worth (including profit) during the years 1968-1974.



APPRAISAL OF AN                                                 ANNEX 2
Table I
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Agricultural Bank of Turkey
Interest Rates, Commissions, Taxes and Rebates
Annual
Nominal       Interest        Commissions        Rebate /1         Actual
Interest      Tax Paid          Paid by          Paid to          Rate Paid
Type of Loan                                                      Rate       by Borrower        Borrower         Borrower        by Borrower
% of   % sf 
_Lt. prin.
Agricultural Credits (Short, medium and long term)
9-r rn.rely agricultural purposes
In developed regions                                         10.5         -        -          0.5             (1.0)          11.0   (10.0)
In undeveloped regions                                       10.5         -        -          0.5             (2.0)          11.0   ( 9.0)
-r itIer purposes
In developed regions                                         10.5         25   2.625          0.5             (1.0)          13.625 (12.625)
In undeveloped regions                                       10.5         25   2.625          0.5             (2.0)          13.62: (11.625)
Suoervised 'redits
In developed regions                                         10.5         -        -          0.5             (1.0)          11.0   (10.0)
In undeveloped regions                                       10.5         -        *          0.5             (2.0)          11.0   ( 9.0)
Agricultural Credit Cooperatives                                  9.0              -                -               1.0           8.0
A4rio Inural ;'arketisas Cooperatives
General                                                      11.5         -        -           1.0              -            12.5
Export Credits                                               10.5         -        -           I.G              -            11.5
Production Credits                                            9.0         -        -          1.0               -            10.0
Long-Term Credits                                            14.0         -        -          1.0             6.0             9.0
Encouragement and Development Credits
(Medium-and Long-Term)
r A-ric i Ltural purpose,
In developed regions                                         10.5         -        -          0.5             (1.0 )         11.0   (10.0
1u.. escjopc. rcgio.s                   1.5                              -        -          0.3             (2.0 2         11.0   ( 9.0 X
.r Au-roisdsutries (ncrmal
In developed regions                                         14.0         25   3.5            0.5              6.0           12.0
In undeveloped regions                                       14.0         25   3.5            0.5              7.0           11.0
r A7roindustries (rediszco,utea
In developed regions                                         12.5         25   3.125          0.5              2.0           14.125
In undeveloped regions                                       12.5%        25   3.125          0.5              3.0           13.125
Export Investment Credits
Medium-'erm                                                  11.5          25   2.875          0.3              4.0          10.675
Long-Term                                                    11.5         25   2.875          0.3               3.0           9.675
Commerc&a' Credits                                               11.5          25   2.875          0.4 L2          4.0           10.775
0:<1er Credits Ari- e -eA  o' a  I as  2 years                  1i41           25   3.5            0.5              6.          _12.0
IBRD Credits
Fresh Fruits end Vegetables
Refrigerated trailers and trucks                          10.0          25   2.5             ^                -            12.5
Marketing facilitiea                                       9.5          25   2.125           -                -            11.625
Orehardas nurseries                                        9.-   -                     -                      -             9.5
Ferry ahips                                                8.4          -       -            -                -             8.4
Intensive Dairy Production; Livestock                         9.0                             -                                9.0
Li Rebates are in practice paid only to non-agricultural borrowess. An attempt to 'eflect this practice is
made in the Table by placing in parentheses rebates which are in fact not paid, and also showing in
parentheses the actual rates which would prevail if such rebates were paid.
L!  Rate of 0.47% refers to commercial bills.  The cosmission for advances against bonds, shares and gold is 1.C%.



AITITEX 2
Table 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJPCT
TURKEY
Agricultural Bank of Turkey
Outstanding Loans and Arrears,
1971-1974, bb Type of Loan
Number          Balance        % of Total   Amount in           / in
Type of Loan                                  Outstanding    Outstanding    Ag. Loans           Arrears         Arrears
(TL million)                   (TL million)
1971
Annual Production Loans                          1,453,183          2,529            22              1,407          56
Loans to Agricultural Marketing
Cooperatives                                        631         4,487            39                906           20
Loans to Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives                                      2,035         2,015            17              N.A. A         N.A.
Supervised Credit Loans                            2',323             200             2                 46          23
Agroindustry Loans                                      359            23             0                  8          36
Other Agricultural Loans                               N.A.         2.292            20                494          22
Total Agricultural Loans                                  11,546           100              2,861          25
1972
Annual Production Loans                          1,389,145          2,792            20              1,343          48
Loan,s to Agricultural Marketing
Cooperatives                                        635          5,505            39             2,085           43
Loans to Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives                                      2,041         2,426            17              N.A.           N.A.
Supervised Credit Loans                             24,803           275             2                 40          15
Agroindustry Loans                                      374            55             0                  8          14
Other Agricultural Loans                               N.A.         3,089            22                516          17
Total Agricultural Loans                                  14,142           100             3,992           28
1973
Annual Production Loans                          1,347,208          3,035            15              1,377          45
Loans to Agricultural Marketing
Cooperatives                                        642          8,566           42              2,609           30
Loans to Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives                                      2,043          2,739            13             N.A.            N.A.
Supervised Credit Loans                             29,520            422             2                 52          12
Agroindustry Loans                                      370            134            1                  7           5
Other Agricultural Loans                            N.A.            5,624            27                560           8
Total Agricultural Loans                                    .50100                         4.605           22
/1 Of TL2,267 million outstanding to members in the cooperatives' books as of December 1971, TL933 million
(441~) was overdue.  As of December 1972, TL2,586 million was outstanding to members, TL937 million (36%)
was overdue.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 2
Balance             Amount in  % in
1974                                     Outstanding    %       arrears   arrears
Loans to marketing cooperatives
for price support                       16,013       55       2,774        17
Other loans to marketing cooperatives        1,700        6        161         9
Agricultural (production) loans              6,133      21       2,002        33
Loans to credit cooperatives                 2,955       10        130         5
Loans from special funds (AID, IBRD,
Government)                              1,132        4         136        12
Supervised credit                              627        2         71        11
Encouragement and development loans            112        1         -         -
Rescheduled loans (not categorized)            253        1         55        22
23,687     100       5,328        18.4



APPRAISAL OF AN
AGTICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROIND'USTRITS PROJECT
Agricultural Bank of Turkgy
Comparative Balance Sheets
ITEM                                          1964                              1966           1967           1968             1969            1970           1971            1972           1973          1974
No.           TTEM                             -------------------------------------------------------------TL million----------------___ ----------____------------------_______________
1.01   Paid-up Capital                         729               733             744            962           1002            1028             1127           1137            1148          1160           1172
1.02   Misc. Reserves                          187               188             189            268            270             271              315            318             321            326           327
1.03   Bad Debt Reserves                          2                2               2              2              6                6               6              6                6             6
1.04   Net Worth Excluding Profit                                                m             7              T               rm              T                               T             -17 
1.05   Profit & Loss Account                                   ,6 79                             77             64 ;IV                         -r
2.01   9% Bonds Outstanding                     120              107              99             88             76               62              50             38               26            17            11
2.02   Rediscounted Items                      820               742            1648           2288           3437             4342            4642           3017            3989           7415         15764
2.03   Deposits                               4083              4785            5722           6683           7906            8736            10200          13730           17254         21291          24847
2.04   Other Liabilities                      108                 5              4             1323           16               227               8            2968               4           4             74
Total Liabilities            81T             1655             __1_ -7                                                                                           I                                        N
3.01   Total 5iabilities + Net Worth          7056              78T7            9977          11691          14412           16764            18937          21229           26620         35457          49767
4.01   Debts to Equity (EMoluding             6.65              7.46            9.59           8.43          10.22           11.81            12.07          13.53           16.96         22.60          31.86
Profit) Ratio
5.01   Deposit Camposition
5.02      Time                                 827              1114            1346           1579           1903            2205             2827           4028            5456           5760          7030
5.03      Savings                             1589             2086             2671           2875           3306            3599             4013           4867            5346          7061           8203
5.04      Current                             1667              1585            1705           2229            (91            2932             3360           4835            6452          8470           9614
5.05               Total 12                   L0                                R                               =                                   T         R    1          7%            275M          2l;l7
5.06   PTsms & Savings as3 of Total              59%              67%             70%            67%           78%               %               677%           65%             63%            60%          7T%
Deposits
6.01   Loans Rot Yet Due
6.02      Agricultural                        2793              3002            4305           5219           6782            7975             8355           8685           10149         15914         26711
6.03       Other                              1454              1621            1925           2341           2092             2241            2215           2279            2748           3690          3885
6.o4               Total                       7277                     623        0           7 560                         10216    1       5570             1      096 4  12597  1       960 4 
6.o5   Amounts Overdue                          715              766             768            880           1403            2006             2964          368              4284          49404          5373
6.06               Total Loans I37                               329            r99            2228          10277            12222           13534     1 4113               171 24508                    35969
7.01   Cash & Banks                            40o               503             698            530            849              909             918           1639            1800          2145           3077
7.02   Statuatory Deposits                     66o               8               980           1119           1349            1412             1430           2377            3654           4025          4194
7.03   Bonds                                   178               150             171            253            563              522             445            589             729            466           42:'
7.024   Equity Investments                     227               230             236            236            236              257             264            270             271            363           443
7.05               Total Banking Assets       62                7               9             107            13j             153              16591          19007           2             31507          410
8.01   Fixed Assets (Net)                       208              225             225            264            301              343             384            404             433            491           534
8.02   Other Assets                             421              547             669            849            837             1099            1962           1818            2547           3459          5178
Total Assets               753                77 77                        111 1                     4 42 737                3           21229            72Z26         354 57        19767
9.01   Total Losno as % of Total Assets          70%              68%             70%            72%            71%              73%             72%            67%             65%            695,          72%
9.02   Total Loans as % of Total                 77%              76%             77%            80%            77%              806             82%            74%              73%           78'1          R?22
Banking Assets
9.03    mounts Overdue as % of Total Loans   14%                  14%             11%            10%            14%              16%             22%            22%             25%            20%           15%
9.04   Total Banking Assets as %                 91%              90%             91%            90%            92%              91%             88%            90i             89%           599%          9Sc
Total Assets
9.05   Annual % Increase in Total Loans  3                         9%             30%            21%            21%              19t             11%             4%              22%           43%           47'
/   Profit and Loss Account shows profit of the yeas before corporation tax.  Corporation tax
(35, on taxable income) is paid every year but debited to other assets until parliament
decides on transfer of profits accrued (less corporation tax accrued) to paid-up capital.
2  Compound Annual Growth Rate = 19.8%.
Compound Annual Growth Rate = 21.9%.



APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Agricultural Bank of Turkey
Comparative Income Statements
ITEM
No.                 ITEM                                   1964         1965         1966         1967         1968         1969         1970         1971         1972         1973         1I
---------------------------------------------------------- TL million ------------------------------------------------------
1.01   Interest & Commissions on Loans                     360          422          511          648           758          903         1086         1408         1452         1752         2565
1.02   Interest & Commissions on Banking Services           42            42           51          58            59           78          115           95          132          214           292
1.03   Net Foreign Exchange & Profits                        2            4            5            6            7             8           12           21           39           69           71
1.04   Income from Equity Investments                        4            9           10           10           10            9             8           10            7           31            16
1.05   Bond Income                                           3            6            7           10           32           32            28           40           68           58           40
i.o6              Gross Banking Income A                   411          483          584          732          866         103_0        124_9         1574r        1698         _2 IN 
2.01   Interest & Commissions Paid                         152          177          214          322          403          524          660           785          782          933         1530
2.02   Savings Account Premiums Paid                        11           14           14           11           16           19            18           22           23           28           27
2.03              Total Interest Costs                      -3 -19-1                 228          333         7-19          543          678          807          805          961         i55F
2.04   Provision for Bad Debts                              -            -            -            -                         -           -            -             -            -
2.05   Taxes & Duties Paid            1                     16           18           24           29           38           41           59           91           110          117          124
2.06              Net Banking Income L232                               274          332          370          405          446          512          676          783          1046         1300
3.01   Salaries and Wages Paid                             155          160          188          223          265          317          400          527          540          664           791
3.02   Depreciation                                          7            8            9           11           12           15           17           20           21            23           23
3.03   Other Expenses (Net of Other Income)                 40           37           56           59           64           72           81          114           89           110          268
4.oi                 Profit                                 30           69           79           77           64           42           14           15          133          249           218
4.02   Annual % Increase in Gross Banking IncomELI          _            187          21%          25%          18%          19%/         21%          26%           87           257          40%
4.03   Annual % Increase in Net Banking Income/             _            187          217          11%           97%         10%          157%         32D          16%          34%           24%
4.04   Profit as % of Gross Banking Income                   7/          14%          14%          11%           7%.          4%           1%           1%           87%         lD             77b
/1 Compounded Annual Growth Rate = 21.9%
2   Compounded Annual Growth Rate = 18.8%
1



APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTIURAL CREDIT  OND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
I'.   2  I  .l 1 <mOilS. 2)'.le
2<ISces an. Acses of 2'L
1965        1966         1967         1968          1969          1970          1971        197?          1973         1974
ITFM                        "'E                                                         _--__ --__    ---_-----------------------TL million-------
No.
1T,0          Sources of Funds
1.02              Ftofit                                                                 69             79          i7          64            42             14           15          133            249         118
1.03              Depreciation                                                            8              9          11          12            15             17           20           21             23          23
'.04              Provision for Bad Debts                                                 -              -           -           4             -              -            -            -                          3
1.05              Increase in Miscellaneous Reserves                                      1              1          79            2            1             44            3            3              5            1
1.06                 Funds Generated From Operations                                     78             89         167          82            58             75           38          157            T777        245
2.01          Increase in Deposits                                                      702            937         961       1,223           830          1,464       3,530         3,524         4,037        3,556
2.02          Capital Subscriptions                                                       4             11         218          40            26             99           10           11             12          12
".03                 Funds From Operations and Financial Sources                        784         1,037        1,346       1,345           914         1,638        3,578         3,692         4,326 3j813
3.10"         Uses of Funds
3.' 2             F'unds Absorbed by Statutory Deposits                                 173            147         139         230            63             18         947         1,277            371         169
3j. 3            Retirement of Bonds Outstanding                                         13              8          22          12            14             12           12           12              9           6
3. 4              Funds Absorbed by Amounts Overdue                                      51              2         112         523           602            '758        204         1.121            615         645
3.''5                FlFunds Available Before Liquidity Requirements                    547            880       L             580           234            650       2,415         1.282          3.331       2.993
4 'T          Increase in Cash and Banks                                                103            195        (168)        319            60              9         721           161            345         932
4. 2          Funds Invested in Bonds                                                   (28)            21          82         310           (41)           (77)        144           140           (263)      ..(44)
Ul.,2                Funds Available for Lending                                       472            664         1,170        (49)          215           718         1,550          981         3.249        2,105
*1'.I      Increase in Loans Not Yet Due                                             376         1,607        1,330       1,314         1,342            354         39'         1,933          6,707      10,816
*,: . -       Less: Increase in Rediscounted ILems                                      (78)           906         640       1,149           905            300      (1,625)          972          3,426       8.349
.( 0            Net Lending Not Su,pported by Rediscounting                           454            701          690         165           437             54      (2_.019)         961         3,281       2.467
(.  S         Funds Available (Required) After Lending                               18            (37)        480         (214)        (222)           664         (469)          20            (32)        (362)
.4         Increase in Equity Investments                                              3              6           -           -            21              7           6             1             92          80
5                   Funds Available (Required) After Investments             ,         15            (43)        480         (214)                        657         (475)           19          (124)        (442)
'2 m1         Uses of Funds
* I               rincrease (Decrease) in Other Assets                                 126           122          180         (12)          262           863         (144)          729            912      1,669
Ni*)            Decrease (Tncrease) In Otter Liabilities                              (166)         (2431         171        (328)         (624)          (306)       (385)         (775)       (1,250)    (2,426)
2,.!,)            V'   '      )'C,_ .....  '' '  LL                                       30           69           79          77            64            42           14            15           133          249
25()L          Net Investment in Fixed Assets                                          25              9          50          49            57             58          40            50             81          66
'.05                 Funds Used (Released) After Tnvestments                             15            (63)        480        (214)         (243)           657        (475)           19           (124)       (442)
/1   Profits/losses (before corporation tax) of previous years are credited/debited to other
liabilities/other assets' corporation tax is paid but debited to other assets until
Parliament decides on transfer of accrued profits less accrued losses and less
accrued corporation tax to paid-up capital and to reserves.



APPRAISAL O AN
ACGICULTURALCL a IT AND AOR8IS8T28  PRldCT
T
Agrnioltoral Bank of T-rkcy
9Ss-y Fi-noil A-alysis of TCZB
It 1s IV64                                                                           V65         1966        1V67         1     T1 IT I            170        V71        1    _2______
No.                                                                     --- ______-......                                                              ---------------
I RESOURCE POSITION DATA
1.01  Total Loans                                                      4 962        5 389       6,998       8,440        10,277      12,222      13,534     14,132      17,186     24,508    355  9
1.02   Total Deposits                                                  40883        4,785       5,722       6,683         7,906       8,736      10,200     13,730      17,254     21,291    26,847
1.03      Loaos As % of Deposits                                          122%        113%        1227.       126%          1302%       140%        133%       103%        100%       115%      1451
1.00  Total .oaos                                                       41496       5.389       6.998       8440         107277      11.222      13.534      14.132     11 6       24.508    35.969
1.05   Total Deposits -.06                                                          V           5.7               2.906               8,736      10 200      13 730     677331     21,291    267847
I.t  Redis.o.oted lIts-                                                   320         742       1.648       2.288         3,437       4.342       4.642   3.017          3.989      7.415    15.764
1.07         Tots1 Deposits & iaRdisoonts                              4.903        5.527       7.370        .971        11.343      13.078      14.842      16.747     21.243     28,706    40.611
Oaf  Loses to Deposits 6 Redisnoonts Ratio                                107%         98%         95%          94%          91%         93%         91%         84%        81%        85%       89%
1.09  Total Deposits & Bldisonate teo Total Liabilities                    80%         80%         82%         86%           87%         85%         857         85%        85%        85%       85%
0.10  Ridisaoanted Items                                                  820         742       1,648       2,288         3,437       4,342       4,642       3,017      3,989      7,415    15,764
1.11      As . of Total Loans                                              17%         14%         24%          27%          337         36%         34%         21%        23%        30%       44%
1.12  ledisnoonted Its                                                    820         742       1,648       2,288         3,437       4,342       4,642       3,017      3,989      7,415    15,764
1.13   statutory Dopoatsi                                                 660         833         980        1.119        1.349       1.412       1.430       2.377      3.654      4.025     4.194
1.14         Net Control Baak Sopport to TCZB                             160         (91)        668       1,169         2,088       2,930       3,212         640        335      3,390    11,570
1.15         Total DeposIts                                             4,083       4,785       5,722       6,683         7,906       8,736      10,200      13,730     17,254     21,291    24,847
1.16         Total Liabilitira                                          6,108       6,885       8,963      10,382        13,070      15,417      17,475      19,753     25,012     33,716    48,041
1.17         Deposits As % of Total Liabilities                            67%         7%          64%         64%           60.         57%         58%         69%        697.       63%       52%
, QIUIDITY DATA
7.01      0iiW ii8B nki                                                   400         503         698         530           849         909         918       1,639      1,800      2,145      3,077
2.02  Stotot.oy Deposits                                                  660         833         980        1,119        1,349       1,412       1,430       2,377      3,654      4,025     4,194
2.03   Bonds                                                              178         ISQ         171          253          563         522         445         589        729        466       422
2.04         Total                                                      1.238       1.486       1.849        1.902        2.761       2.843       2.793       4.605      5.183      6.636    7.693
2.05      As % of Totl Doposits                                            30%         31%         327.         2S%          35%         33%         27%         34%        30%        31%        31%
2.0t  Cash 4 Bsks As Y. of Total Deposits                                  10%         11%         12%           87.         11%         1Q7.          9%        12         10%        102%       12%
,.IRESv  ADEQUACy DATA
3.01   Anh14t6 QverdnC                                                    715         766         768          880        1,403       2,006       2,944       3,168      4,289      4,904     5,549
3.02  Bd Debt Ri.senvo.                                                     2           2           2            2            6           6           6           6          6          6         9
3.03      As % of A-ooots Overdos                                         0.3%        0.3%        0.3%        0.2%          0.4%        0.3%         0.2%       0.2%       0.1%       0.1%       0.2.
EARNING.5 DATA
4.01   Not lorth                                                          918         923         935        1.232        1.278       1.305       1.448       1.461      1.475       1.492     1a508
4ho    P-ofit                                                              38          69          79           77           64          42           14         15        133         249       218
4.l        As % of Nlt W-th /1                                            3.3%        7.5%        8.4%         6.3%         5.Q%        3.27         1.2%       1.0%       9.0%       16.7%     14.5%
4.04  Total Assets                                                      7,056       7,877       9,977       11,691       14,412      16,764      18,937      21,229     26,620     35,457    49,767
4.l5    -ofits Aa % of Total Assets                                       0.4%        0.9%        0.81         0.7%         0.4%        0.3%        0.1%        0.1%       0.5%       0.7%       0.42
4.06   Total L.oon- -stt of Yost                                          -         4,96D       5,389        6,998        8,440      10,277      12,222      13,534     14,132     17,186    24,508
4.07               . Close of Yest                                                  1,389       6,998        8,440       18,277      12,222       13,534     14,132     17,186     24,508    35,969
.3                   2  Av-tage O.'stoodi                                -          59175       i            7            .9358      11.249       12.878     13.833     15.659     20.847    30.239
4.09 D tIteret & Csoissions Eared on Loan-                                -           422         511         648           758         903       1.066       1.408      1.452       1.752     25.15
4.10      As % of Avotrgo BOtantodi.g                                                 8.2%        8.3%         8.4%         8.1%        8.2%        8.4%       10.2%       9.3%       8.4%       8.5%
4.11  Total Banking Assets . Stort of Yeat                                          6,427       7,105       9,083        10,578      13,274      15,322      16,591     19,007     23,640    31,507
4.12                        - Close of  7eat                                        .15         9.083       10.57       i3.274       1522!       16 591      19V007     23.640     31.507    44 105
4.13                        : 2  Averoge  otal bankinz Assets             -         6.766        S8 .830                 1.26        44298        15 936     17 799     21.323     n7.573    3780
414  G.oss Basking I-otee                                                                        5            732866                 1                       1,574      1,698      2,124    -TM9
4.15      As % of Ave-ge Total Banking Assets                             -           7.1%        7.2%         7.4%         7.3%        7.2%         7.8%       8.S7.      8.0%        7.77.     7.9%
4.16  NDt Bankieg I.oom                                                   _           274         332          370          405         446          512        676        783       1,346     1,300
4.17      As 7. of Ave--ge Total BDnking Assets                           -           4.0%        4.1%         3.7%         3.4%        3.1%         3.27.      3.B%       3.7%       3.8%       3.4%
4.18  Average Total Basking Assets (D33)                                  _         6,766       8,094        9,830       11,926      14,298       15,956     17,799     21,323     27,573    37,806
4.19  Profit As % af Aver-ge Total Banking Assets                         -           1.0%        1.0%        0.8%          0.5%        0.3n-        0.1%       0.17.      0.6%       0.9%       0.6%
COS DATA
5.01  Wages & Slaties Paid                                                _           160          188         223          265         317         400         527        540        664        791
5.02      As % of A-ersge Total Batkirg Assets                            _           2.4%        2.3%         2.3%         2.2%        2.2%         2.5%       3.0%       2.5%       2.4%       2.1%
5.03      As % of Gross Banking Io-ms                                    _            33%         327.         30%          31%         31%          32%        33%        32%         31%       27%
5.04  Inteos-t & Coi.ios- Paid                                            _           177         214          322          403         524          660        785        782         933     1,530
5.05   Savings Annooct Presi                                              _            14          14           11           16          19           18         22         23          28        27
5.06  Provinios tar Bad Debts                                             -           .           -            -              4         _            -          -          ,          -            3
5.07  T-s & Deties Pid                                                                 i 18        24           29           38          41           59         91        110         117       124
5.03         Total Basking Eppens.s                                     _             209         252          362          461         584          737        898        915       1078    1.,684
5.09      As % of Aveosge Totol B..kieg Assets                                        3.1%        3.1%         3.7%         3.9%        4.1%        4.6%        5.0%       4.3%        3.9%      4.31
. Meo % V196  - 1974 - 6.9%,






APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL. CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
ORGANIGRAM OF AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY
COMITE                                       COMMITTE
.1-l
ISCIFL~            ~     ~            IN         T
DSFFNSF                 COT OSFt )R            COOFEtRATIVES  |         F|ITE GSSENI CA ||                                      OS .FFOL                     LOCAL AFFAIRS 
ROARI) R-RTERI                                   IROARE -M-.ER*
| ASTITFOSO                                         O l ASSIS 'Aro                                                 |   OSssTISTOOR                                        ASGETNTRL     ll SE=T
RANVOET                                           010000CR                                                           RANVOET                                            MANAGER                                            GENERAL
_                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
COTRI IX        }       <        3 EI CIID  CONRICTRE FOR                                                                       ANT                                        SVFEDVRED               SCTTAOMEA-
< {       S               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICOIONFTISRNIOFICN                                                                                              NRCCOA                     EEOMN
CREVICm FOR   CI O II           rIN  C O T O                P N N   E                                    0   R CC                  CI , SN                  O I E                   I I I SC                   E I ST                   T S
O,CIv,IIN~~~  ~   ~   ~  ~ VIVMITTT CS  CC FO T               FSCSDOROiVCN






ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
The Supervised Credit Pogram Component (SCP) 1/
I. The Existing Program
A. Historical Background
1.        The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) has, over the years. conducted
research to improve its agricultural credit services. A study made from 1961
to 1963 in collaboration with USAID recommended that a supervised credit pro-
gram be established, based on the Farmers Home Administration (FHO) model in
the U.S.A. 2/ The program was begun in 1964 involving the selection of two
pilot provinces with the intention of expanding the program throughout Turkey.
The program has cumulatively covered 34,000 farmers (slightly more than 1% of
the national total) in 50 of the cotmtry's 67 provinces, with coverage expected
to expand further to all provinces and TCZB branches within the next five years.
2.        Although referred to as supervised credit in English documents and
conversations and modelled on the FHA form, the Turkish program varies in
substance from the conventional concept of supervised credit. The program is
in fact an adaptation to local conditions and may be defended as such. The
shortage of funds (Annex 2, para 35) require that agricultural credit be
severely rationed, and such rationing is manifested in TCZB's ordinary agri-
cultural credit limits, expressed in fixed amounts per decare of cropped area,
which amount to a small proportion of the cash costs of growing the crop in
question. Supervised credit is a way around these limits. Rationing of super-
vised credit is accomplished by restricting the number of borrowers rather than
the credit provided to each borrower.
1/   A detailed description of the Supervised Credit Program is found in
Thomas Stickley and Suha Satana, {'Small Farmer Credit in Turkey: The
Supervised Credit Program of the Turkish Republican Agricultural Bank,"
Small Farmer Credit in West Asia, Vol. ix, USAID Spring Review of Small
Farmer Credit, Washington, Februarv 1973, pp 1-66.  Discussions with TCZB
officials suggested that the material in the Spring Review is reasonably
accurate, containing no material errors or misinterpretations.
2/   An initial fund of TL 50 million ($3.6 million) was established, half
of this amount beinz subscribed by TJSAID.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. General Objectives
3.        The objectives of the SCP are to:
(a)  increase productivitv per unit of land-,
(b) promote the use of improved and appropriate production inputs
and encourage on-farm investments;
(c)  help individual farmers operate economically:
(d) create an effective farmer demand for new agricultural
technology: and, in order to achieve these:
(e) provide the farmers with financial support in the form of
effective and adequate credit if the purchase of capital
goods and inputs lies beyond their capabilities.
T'echnical assistance by TCZB field staff represents a major program input.
UJnder the program, participating farmers are expected to achieve:
(a)  an improved and reasonable level of living-
(b) an ability to repay the loan;
(c) financial strength in being self-supporting (and graduating
from the program); and
(d) sufficient income to enjoy profits over the costs of
production.
C. Terms of Loans
4r.       SCP loans are advanced for operating expenses and investment.  Loans
are classified as short-term (loans of not more than one year); medium-term
('1-5 year loans for animal husbandry and agricultural imachinery); and long-term
(loans longer than 5 years for land development and improvement, irrigation
development, and on-farm building construction). The bulk of SCP loans are
griven for medium-term purposes, 6% for long-term and 25% for short-term pur-
poses. The distribution of cumulative disbursements from 1964 to the end of
11974 given below provides an indication of the general form and scope of the
ISCP .



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Loans Outstanding as of November 30, 1974
Amount
Purpose                                Number      %    (TL millions)    %
Short Term Operating                         7,806      24        71.1          15
Agricultural Equipment                       4,358      13        37.9           8
Purchases of Livestock                       9,264      28        59.3          12
Improvement of Land & Buildings              2,237       7       196.2          41
Establishment of New Farm Enterprises    _876           28       113.4          24
Total                                  32,541    100       477.9          100
D. SCP Credit Standards
5.        An applicant must fulfill the following requirements in order to be
eligible for a TCZB-SCP loan. He must:
(a)  be registered in the village or ward bureau of the census;
(b)  be a Turkish citizen;
(c)  be over 18 years old and in possession of his mental faculties,
(d)  be engaged in farming or fishing:
(e) not be excessively in debt to TCZB or other parties and be
capable of paying his debts (excluding debts deferred because
of natural calamities); (Those who otherwise fail to pay their
debts when due are not given further loans);
(f) not be a usureri
(g) request the credit for use in agricultural activities-,
(h) not be a member of the Bank's Board of Directors, the Bank's
staff or someone associated with them in a bond of interest:
(i) be a full-time agriculturalist, with no more than minor income
from sources other than the holding he works (not rigidly ad-
hered to);
(j)  be judged capable of adopting improved practices;
(k) be experienced and well-established in agriculture: and
(1) be able to satisfv collateral require.ments (see para 11).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
In addition to being eligible for supervised credit, the farmers' land must
meet the following size limits wiich are specified by climatic zone and irri-
gation status.
Climatic                             Irrigated Land (ha)   Unirrigated Land (ha)
Regions                              Min.             Max.   Min.              Max.
Hiumid                               0.50            18.00   1.00              36.00
Semi Humid                           0.75            27.00   1.50             54.00
Semi Arid                            1.00            36.00   2.00              72.00
Semi Arid-cold                       1.20            43.20   3.60             129.60
Arid                                  1.25           45.00   5.00             180.00
6.        A reference to the dist:ribution of private agricultural holdings by
size (Annex 1, para 4) suggests that probably 15-20% of the country's smallest
operators and 1-2% of the largest operators are also excluded from the SCP.
Small operators are excluded because of the questionable economic viability
of their farm business plus the relatively high administrative costs of very
small loans. However, the exclusion based on land area is not as limiting as
it may appear since many operators of micro-plots are not full-time farmers,
and hence are not within the scope of SCP in any case.
7.        Each beneficiarv must observe the specifications indicated in his
farm production and investment plan which is made before loans are extended.
Specifications are made oll Lhe basis of the capabilities of the farmer con-
cerned as well as the agricultural potential of the area. Generally, these
plans cover 5 years and include both seasonal production and investment loans.
Upon completion of the first 5-y,ear plan, a second 5-year extension is permitted.
Policy and Control
8.        The SCP operates under a Policv Committee which was formed in 1963
consisting, at the highest level, of representatives of the Ministries of
Commerce, Finance and Agriculture, the State Planning Office: and TCZB. A
USAID representative was originally a member. The Committee is a policy-
making mechanism to guide SCP which is then administered by the Supervised
Credit Division at TCZB Head Office (see Chart 1).
9.        Borrowers are selected from applicants by a Selection Committee
established for each county included in the program. The Committee consists
of the TCZB Branch manager, the respective managers of the area Agricultural
Credit Cooperatives (if the applicant is a member of the cooperative), local
officials of the Veterinary and Agriculture departments, a senior village
representative, an agricultural chamber representative. and the agricultural
engineer or technician of the local TCZB branch office (who has no vote).



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Leading Policies and Procedures
(a) Interest Rate
10.       The interest rate currently charged on all agricultural loans, includ-
ing supervised loans, is 117 including 0.5% commission fee. Before October,
1974 it was 9.5%.
(b)  Collateral
11.       The following forms of collateral are accepted for supervised loans:
(i)  Basic collaterals:  Land mortgage and joint liability (up to
TL 75,000 possible without mortgage of land).
(ii) Complementary collaterals (to bridge the gap): mortgage of
other immovables.
(iii)  Extra securities:  pledge of movables (animals, agricultural
machinery, etc.).
If no mortgageable collateral exists which the farmer himself can offer, a
maximum of TL 75,000 can be advanced for the entire planned period by present-
ing signatures of at least three farmers for joint liability. Borrowers may
also bridge their mortgageable collateral deficit by presenting acceptable and
mortgageable immovables owned by other people. The value of agricultural
land to serve as collateral is determined by a scale of land assessment (sub-
ject to periodic revision) or by an assessment committee consisting of the
local TCZB branch manager and agricultural engineer or technician.
Delegation of Loan Approval Authorty
12.       Managers of second class branches may approve SCP loans up to
TL 50,000; first class branch managers TL 75,000- and provincial central branch
managers TL 100,000. Amounts not exceeding TL 150,000 are within the authority
of the Division Chief at headquarters. Loans from TL 150,000 to TL 500,000 1/
require the approval of the Board of Directors.
The_Sup~ervis ion Element
13.       Supervision is provided bv agricultural engineers (degree holders)
and technicians (high school graduates) assigned to branches. As of December
31, 1974, 230 supervisors were located in the field, serving the 310 TCZB
branches with SCP loans outstanding to farmers. Supervisors engaged in pro--
motional activities in rulral meetine places such as coffee houses and mosques
and farmers are urged to apply for funds at the local TCZB branch. During
the first farm visit the supervisor assists the farmer with the application
forms, or verifies the details in the forms if the farmer has completed the
forms himself. The supervisor also ascertains whether the farmer meets eligi-
bilitv requirements which applv to his farm bulsiness and character. The gen--
eral feasibility of the loan request is also examined.
1/   The ceiling was raised from TL 150,000 to TL 500,000 in 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
14.       In the next stage the branch office insures that the applicant ful--
fills the remaining eligibility criteria.  Once these details are completed,
which should not require more than one month, the supervisor again visits the
farm for the purpose of project design. A land-use plan is drawn up to cover
a three to five-year period. From the plan, and from a survey of the farmer's
wealth and income, credit needs are ascertained. A detailed annual plan is
made, and the loan application an,l related documents are submitted to the
proper level of authority within rCZB for approval, modification or rejection.
Poor performers are ejected from the program in cases of blatant failure to
observe the farm plan specificatiDns or the advice given by the Bank's tech-
nical staff,  Such farmers are given a 1-month notice 1/ and if no investment
occurs, they are expelled from the program and are required to repay outstand-
ing loans within a short time.
15.       Field supervision primarily involves frequent but short farmer visits
and good supervisors visit each farm once a month, although the effectiveness
of these visits mav be diminished by the severe fragmentation of many holdings
and hence the diminished probability of finding the operator on the plot chosen
for a visit. Many of these visits are not scheduled, although farmers specifi-
cally requesting a supervisory visit are given scheduled times. A more formal
review of the farmer's progress is made annually when he makes his request for
seasonal operating funds under the long range plan.
16.       TCZB policy provides that supervisors should spend no more than one
day a week in their offices, and this day is frequently chosen to coincide with
market day when farmers come to the local center. However, lack of adequate
transnort facilities (such as a branch Land Rover) often results in super-
visors remaining in their offices more than one dav a week.
17.       It is a moot Doint whether the supervisory input is more useful in
helping TCZB lend or the farmer borrow. Supervised credit is a means of pro--
moting agricultural progress in a more dynamic wav than available through
ordinarv TCZB agricultural credit, which is rationing tnder a procedure pro-
viding small amounts of credit to a large number of farmers. This rationing
procedure precludes a dynamic impact, while supervised credit can be concen-
trated in larger amounts. Supervision also reduces the Bank's risk in lending.
Collections
(a) Timing
18.       Collection of annual operational loans is carried out after the
harvestin2 season. Investment lcan installments are expected to be collected
at the same time. Supervised loans generally involve no security in the form
of Bank liens on crop deliveries or other forms of TCZB control over borrowers'
cash inflows.
1/   SCP Management is considering a change of the 1-month notice:  A
reasonable period of time', adequate to the circurstances, may be
introduced instead of the 1-month deadline.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(b) Repayment Performar.ce
19.       The amount of loans not collected as a percent of the amount of
loans that should have been collected decreased from 47% in 1970 to 34%, 28.5%,
28.4% and 24.2% in 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974 respectively. Up to 1973 there
was a similar improvement in the number of delinquent borrowers: Their per-
centage dropped from 23.8% in 1970 to 19.7%O, 14.6% and 14.2% in 1971, 1972 and
1973 respectively. However, in 1974, this percentage increased sharply to
26.1% suggesting that in this year repayment performance of the small borrowers
deteriorated.
(c) Rescheduling
20.       Debts may be rescheduled if justification offered for failure to
repay is approved by the branch concerned. Eligible reasons may be natural
disasters or other factors beyond the farmer's control. In such cases, debts
may be repaid in installments or all at once in the following cropping season.
E. Farm Planning and Subloan Appraisal
21.       The appraisal and scrutiny of each loan application for supervised
credit is an elaborate process. The considerable detail of data obtained on
the individual from history and future plan results in a substantial base for
appraisal, viz., determining the financial feasibility of the proposed in-
vestments in terms of incremental benefits and costs and arranging credit as
well as repayment of loan as indicated by the cash flows.
F. Analvsis of SCP Performance
22.       Tables 1-5 in this Annex give a provisional analysis of TCZB's
performance under the Supervised Credit Program. The analysis is provisional
because it incorporates numerous assumptions to make up for the lack of hard
data as detailed in table footnotes. This deficiency reflects TCZB's organi-
zational structure and approach to decision-making. The management of the
Supervised Credit Division, for example, should have more authority and con-
trol over such matters as staffing, promotions and remuneration, vehicle ac-
quisition, etc. TCZB management appears to evaluate SCP on the basis of the
cumulative number of loans sanctioned since the program's inception, with less
attention to the annual volume of approvals; on the number of Provinces covered
by the program: and by the proportion of total loans outstanding which are in
arrears. Borrowers' performance is measured largely by the proportion of on-
farm investment, plans fulfilled, and increases in their net worth.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
S'CP Coverga
23.       The number of SCP borrowers has increased in each of the years since
1969 and that the number of farmers in the program as of end-1974 approximated
22,400 (Table 1). About 30% of all farmers who have received SCP loans since
ithe program's inception in 1964 have graduated from the program, and field
research data undertaken by management indicates that borrower net worth has
increased in each of these cases. Statistics collected on 2,150 graduated
farmers showed that their net worth increased by 24.67 or an average of TL
19,505. The average rate of realization of planned investments for these
farmers was 89.5%.  Amone the farmers surveyed, the highest increase of net
worth was TL 559,700.
24.       The volume of loans sanctioned under the program has increased sub-
stantially since the end of 1971 and that the average loan approved approxi-
matelv doubled between 1969-71 andl 1972-74 (Table 1). Management explains
this change as reflecting an increase in emphasis on supervised credit and
the communication of a better understanding of program goals to field staff
and also to branch managers who are the officials who approve most SCP loans.
The increase in average loan size occurred in both the investment loan and
the operating loan categories, and the ratio between the two categories
appears to have altered from roughly 3:1 to 4:1 with the quantum change in
loan size which occurred in 1972.
Portfolio Size and Arrears
25.       While the portfolio more than tripled in size between 1969 and 1974,
arrears not even doubled (Table 1). In relative terms, while 27% of the port-
folio were overdue in 1969, this percentage declined to 15% in 1974.
Staffin  and Surpe _sory Inputs
26.       Staffing patterns have been somewhat erratic. although the general
trend has been towards more supervisors in the field as the program has ex-
panded (Table 2). The composition of the field staff has altered radically
between the two grades: engineers (degree holders) and technicians (secondarv
school graduates). While engineers outnumbered technicians by approximately
2 to 1 in 1969. almost the reverse situation prevailed at the end of 1974.
This downgrading of supervisory inputs in terms of paper qualifications ap-
pears not to have adversely affected portfolio performance (indeed, portfolio
performance has improved), and also has not been accompanied bv a decline in
staff productivity as measured by indicators discussed below. Obviously, some
engineers are required under the present system since they are the only super-
visors eligible for eventual elevation to managerial positions under TCZB's
civil-service-tvpe regulations. It may well be that a continued decrease in
the proportion of cadre consisting of engineers would not affect the perform-
ance of SCP adversely.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
27.       The average supervisorv case loads have ranged from 82 to 93 farmers
during the period under review (Table 3, section II). Much of this increase
orobably reflects TCZB's difficulties in holding qualified supervisors rather
than productivitv increases obtained by other means. Salaries are not attrac-
tive relative to those available in the private sector and turnover in the
cadre has probably been massive, although management compiles no turnover
data. TCZB, as a State Economic Enterprise, is able to secure a better deal
for its staff only after remuneration levels have risen outside the public
sector, and therefore is always one square behind in this particular game.
When inflation accelerates, TCZB's relative position is eroded more rapidly,
as bureaucratic response time is more or less a constant, The hypothesis that
staff departures have been a major factor increasing case loads is supported
by the decline in the proportion and more recently in the number of engineers
assigned to SCP field cadre as mentioned above. Engineers, because of their
superior paper qualifications, have more job options than technicians, and
therefore, other things being equal, it is no doubt more difficult to hold
good engineers than to hold good technicians.
28.       Loan volume per supervisor, as shown by Table 3, has increased from
TL 1.38 million (1969) to TL 2.08 million (1974), average volume sanctioned
grew from TL 0.99 million (1969) to TL 1.22 million (1974).
SCP Costs
29.       An attempt has been made to estimate the costs of supervisory staff
and to identify and quantify other SCP costs and overheads relative to the
program's demands upon TCZB resources and services as a whole (Tables 4 and 5).
Total program costs estimated in this manner have more than tripled over the
period under review, from TL 19 million in 1969 to TL 64 million in 1974.
While the total costs per account per year have increased from around TL 1,750
in 1969-70 to TL 2,850 in 1974, they have remained relatively stable as a pro-
portion of SCP loan balances outstanding, ranging from 13% to 16% and trending
downwards with the expansion in the number and average size of loan accounts
which occurred with the rise in 1973.
30.       Given the current lending rate of 10.5% on SCP loans and the 0.5%
annual commission charge, and the optimistic assumption that the supervisory
inputs provided to borrowers have created increases in borrower output and
resource productivitv which could not otherwise have been realized, the cost
of the program does not appear excessive and program administration and control
appear quite effective. The major task of management under expansion of the
program would be to maintain the favorable lender's performance realized to
date and to use new information to rationalize operations and to free re-
sources for the provision of supervised credit to more farmers, with special
attention to the smaller onerators who have not received a great deal of
emphasis under the program to date.



ANNErX 3
Page 10
II.  The Project's Contribution
A.  Streajthenin _of the Existing Program
31.       Under the proposed project, additional funds and suDporting services
would be made available to strenmthen and broaden the existing, integrated farm
development Drogram. In addition to TCZB's present expansion plans, loans
amountinr to TL 280 million (USS20 million) would be made over the project
period tc reach about 4,000 farmers in 50 of the 67 provinces.
32.       Investments would be made in various fields with em.phasis on produc-
tion and on-farm storage of fruits and earlv vegetables, and livestock produc-
tion. Farm model analysis has been carried out for 8 representative models
covering about 70% of the investments (Tables 6-11). The projected numbers
and amounts of investments are shown in Annex 8.
33.       All prices, yields and other technical coefficients used in the
models are based on information received in May 1975. Although input and
output prices are likely to change with time, it is anticipated that they will
increase at the same rate. Therefore, in all the models constant prices have
been applied. Where applicable, i.e. in the construction of barns or orchards,
a physical contingency of 5% has been included in the investment costs.
34.       The financial rates of return for 8 representative farm models and
those from sensitivity tests are shown below:
Financial                                Gross
Rate of    Investment   Operating    Revenue
Farm Model                         Return      Costs + 10%  Costs + 10;  - 10%
Citrus Orchard                         17           17             17         16
Early Vegetable Glasshouse             22           19             20         16
Early Vegetable Plastic
Greenhouse                       71           56              47         33
Early Vegetable Plastic Tunnel   very high  very high    very high   very high
Mechanization                          27           22             26         21
Apple Storage                          17           15             --         15
Animal Barn                            39           35             16         11
Egg Production                         40           37             25         20
35.       The farm model analvsis presented in Tables 6-12 would also assist
TCZB in revising its appraisal methods. With the assistance of the prepara-
tion and appraisal missions the SCP staff have already carried out farm model
analyses. It is planned to apply income and cash flow analysis to about 10%
of the farms receiving loans under the project and compute financial rates of
return in a detailed model analysis for each major investment category. Addi-
tional assistance would be given under the training program to be provided by
FAO (Annex 7, paras 11-16).



ANNEX 3
Page 11
B. Introduction of a Short-Term Program
36.       To broaden participation especially among smaller farmers and in the
less developed areas of central and eastern Anatolia, a new short-term lending
program would be introduced under the project. This program would provide the
participating farmers with sufficient amounts of short-term credit and tech-
nical advice to achieve a considerable increase in productivity. It thus com-
pares favorably with the short-term credit TCZB gives to farmers under its
general lending activities where farmers receive only small amounts (Annex 2,
para 37) and use, most likely, substantial portions of the loans for consump-
tion. The premise of the new program is to utilize capable manpower available
in the villages for technical supervision.
37.       Village agricultural extension agents would be appointed by the
Ministry of Agriculture under the program. They would closely cooperate with
experienced TCZB staff (engineers and technicians) and be responsible for:
(a) certifying the eligibility of farmers to receive such loans, and
(b) supervising the technical performance of the participating
farmers (e.g. by checking the status of the fields several times
a year).
38B       TCZB, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, would es-
tablish criteria for technical eligibility. After eliminating delinquent
farmers, TCZB would sanction loans in accoance with standard guidelines
for financing selected crop or livestock inputs to be agreed between TCZB
and the Ministry of Agriculture. To keep the program simple, thereby in-
creasing its effectiveness, each TCZB branch office would concentrate on
3 crop and/or livestock categories at most. Credits would be based on
relevant crop acreage and/or livestock numbers.
39.       The program would be initiated in two or three provinces, preferably
in less developed parts of the country. An estimate on the expected coverage
is given below:
Year
1              2                3
Incremental Total Incremental Total
Participating Branches              3            4        7         5        12
TCZB Engineers/Technicians          9            12       21       15        36
Village Agricultural Extension
Agents                           72           96      168       120       288
Participating Farmers           3,600        4,800    8,400    6,000    14,400



ANNEX 3
Page 12
40.       The estimates are based on the following assumptions:
(i)  An agent would be responsible for 1-2 villages involving
about 50 farmers receiving credit.
(ii)  A TCZB engineer/technician would work with 8 village agri-
cultural extension agents.
(iii)  A TCZB branch comprises about 80 villages.  Since the program
is intended to cover the whole area of each branch selected,
three TCZS engineers/'technicians would be needed per branch.
41.       Although TCZB has no experience with such a program as yet, this
project component seems to be promising in view of the success that has been
achieved with a similar approach in the Seyhan Irrigation Project. A farm
budget analysis has been determined for a representative farm model in central
Anatolia yielding satisfactory results (Table 13). Farmers would receive
100% of the incremental costs which are estimated at TL 3,650 per farm.  The
loans would be repaid after about 12 months and relent thereafter. At full
development, the program is estimated to reach about 14,400 farmers with loans
amounting to TL 67.2 million.



Trable1
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJFCT
TURKEY
Provisional Analysis of the Lender's Performance
Under the Supervised Credit, Prograr. (SCV)
19b9-1974LL.L/
( - To Or As Of December 31 -)
I. BORROWERS                                 1964-68   1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       197
Number of Loans Sanctioned                 7 980    4,123       I 2ff 5    3 710      549,         5,591   5.o
Cumulative Total                7,      12,103                            23,588  29,179    34,179
Number of Borrowers Ejected                            3993/       206       162        186        227         6
Cumu4ative Total                            399         605       767        953       11556
Graduations                                            0O [        681     2,150      2 117      1 g96     2.469
Cumulative Graduations                                T15       3,706 7,7                      10,227
Active Accounts
Cumulative Loans Sanctioned   7,980   12,103        15,338    19,0li8    23,588    29,179   34,179
Less:  Cumulative Ejections                 399         605        767        953     l,lE0    1,556
Cumulative Graduations              90L       1 585      3.706      5,852      7 758   10_227
10,00       13,       1,575   ,16",73    -276t
II. LOANS APPROVED
Amount of Loans Sanctioned
(TI Million)                       267.5    1C7.3          63.7     100.3       227.8      278.6    281.7
Average Amount (TL)           25,628   26,02L       19,686    27,02K       5c,165    49,630   56,340
Investment Loans Sanctioned
(TL Million)          4/           161.2      81.3         47.8       75.4      174.8      219.7    220.0
Average Amount (TL)-                   19,719       14,787    20,314       38,504    39,298   44,000
Operating Loans Sanctioned
(TL `i:lion)                        43.3      26.0         15.9       24.9        53.0      58.9      61.7
Average Amount (TL)I'                    2,406        1,205     1,708       3,154      2,909    2,755
II]. PORTFOLIO
Outstanding Loan Balances
(TL Million)                                 176.2        196.0      199.8      275.3      422.0      536.4
Per Active Account (TL)                16,311       14,904      13,708    16,404    20,849    23,951
Balances Overdue (TL Million)                       L6.8         6o.2        45.8       40.4       52.5       80.4
Percent of Total Outstanding                27 %         31 %        23%       15%        12%        15%
1/  Excluding TOPRAKSU Loans (for minor irrigation) made by the Supervised Credit Division.
2/  Borrowers are ejected from the Program and asked to repav outstanding ,alances immediately when funds are
is-.sZntt, etc. For the years up to 1973 this is assumed to happen in 5 percent of all cases, tne year iollowing
one  f the loan.
3/  Data for 1969 are cumulative.
4J  Assuming all investment loans sanctioned in the borrower's first year in the Program.
5/  Assuming one loan  per active account.



APPPATQAT (F AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Provisional Analysis of the Lender's Performance
Under the Supervised Credit Program (SCP) 1/
1969-1974
(-To Or As Of December 31-)
1969      1970       1971       1972       1973       1974
I. FIELD STAFF (SUPERVISORS)
Agricultural Engineers Employed                           2'
(a) Start of Year                                   75-'       85         97       128        119        114
(b) Close of Year                                   85         97       128        119        117          87
(a+b) + 2 = Average Employed                         ___         91        112       123        __1         100
Engineers in SCP FPild Pe-tt.9                          73 '                            101         93 
Percent in Supervised Credit Program Field Posts    9Li%           88           %82                 79%       -1i
Agricultural Technicians Employed
(a) Start of Year                                   3Lal       38         37       117        118        141
(b) Close of Year                                    8         37        117       118        141        156
(a+b) 4 2 = Average Employed                           6         37         77        117        129        1
Technicians in SCP Field  Posts   r6                              7 3                   110        119        M49
Percent in Supervised Credlit Program Field i-osts   100%          97'       _6           4;    # 2% 
Average Total SCP Field Supervisors                    109        116        169        211        212        230
II. SUPERVISORS' CASE LOADS
Number of Active Accounts
(a) Start of Year                                7,180v-'  10,800    33,148    14,575    16,783    20,241
(b) Close of Year                              10 ,800    13148    14,575    16,78         20.241    22,396
(a4b) t 2 - Average                                o,990    11,974       3,6                            21,319
Average Accounts per Supervisor                         82        103         82         74         87         93
New Loans Sanctionea                                 4,123      3,235      3,710      4,540      5,591      5,000
Loans Sanctioned per Supervisor                         38         28         22         22         26         22
1/ Excluding TOPRAKSU Loans (for minor irrigation) made by the Supervised Credit Division.
2/ Estimated.



APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDWSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Provisioral Analysis of the Lencer's Performance
Under the Sapervised C2redlt Program (SCP)l/
1969-1974
( - To Or As Of December 31 - )
1969      1970      1971       1972      1973       1974
LOAN VOLUE PER SUPERVISOR
Loans Outstanding (TL Million)
(a) Start of Year                                     12h. OW   176.2      196.0     199.8      275.3     Li22.0
(b) Close of Year                                     176.2        60      199.8     275.3      422.0      5)6.4
(a + b) * 2 - Average Total Outstantding                T10.1   i             197.9     237.6      348,       1s79.2
Average Number of Field Supervisors                      109        116       169        211       212        230
Average Outstanding per Supervisor (TL Million)          1.38       1.60      1.17       1.13      1.6h       2.08
New Loans Sanctioned (TL Million)                      1C; 3       63.7     102 3     227.8      278.6      281.7
Average Volume Sanctioned per Supervisor (TL Million)    k,          .55       .59       1-08      1.31       1.22
Investment Loans Sanctioned (TL Million)                81.3       47.8      75.4     17h.8      219.7      220.0
Average Investment Loan Volume Sanctioned per
Supervisor (TL Million)                                 .75        .1h       .45        .83      i.O0        .96
operating Loans Sanctioned (TI Million)                 26.0       15.9      24.9       53.0      58.9       61.7
Average Operating Loan Volume Sanctioned per
Supervisor (TL Million)                                 .24        .Th       .15        .25        .28       .27
Loan Disbursements (TL Million)                         98.9       90.3      93.2      174.6     307.3      35    /2 J
Average Disbursements per Supervisor (TL Million)          ,Y1       .78        .55       .83      I. 45      1
1/ Excluding TOPRAKSU Loans (for ninor irrigation) made by the Supervised Credit Division
2/ Estimated



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF AN                                        Table 4
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TUREX-
Provisiowal Analysis of the Lender's Performance
Under the Supervised Credit Program (SCP) Y/
19b9-1974
(-T o  O r  A s  O f  D e c e m b e r  31-)
1969        1970         1971        1972         1973          1974
I. S_PERVISION DIRECT COSTS
Engineers in SCP Field Posts
73           80           95         101           93           81
Average Monthly Ordinary
Remuneration (TL)2/                                    2,240         2,355       2,475        2,600        2,730       3,000
Average Annual Ordinary
Remuneration (TL)                                     26,880        28,260      29,700       31,200       32,760      36,000
Total Annual Ordinary Remuneration
Paid to Engineers (TL)                             1,962,240    2,260,800   2,821,500   3,151,200   3,o46,680   2,916,000
Gratuities, Allowances, Etc. 2                         804,518       926 928   1 156,815   1,291,992   1,2492139   2,187,000
Estimated Staff Costs - Engineers                    2,766,750    3,107,72    3,970,315   4,443,192   4,9581    5,103,000
Technicians in SCP Field Posts
36           36           74         110          119          149
Average Monthly Ordinary
Remuneration (TL)2/                                    1,460         1,530       1,610        1,690        1,775       1,950
Average Annual Ordinary
Remuneration (TL)                                     17,520        18,360      19,320       20,28o       21,300      23,400
To-tal Annual Ordinary Remuneration
Paid to Technicians (TL)                             630,720       660,960   1,429,680   2,230,800   2,534,700   3,486,Coc
Gratuities, Allowances, Etc.V/                         258,595       270 994     586 169      914 628   1,039,227   2,614,950
Estimated Staff Costs - Technicians                    889,315    _931,95    2,015,o49   3,1             3,573,927   6,101,550
!I. OT_ER PROGRAM COSTS
Average Total SOP F-eld Supervisors                        109           116          169         211          212          230
Drivers Used by SCP Field Supervisors 2/                    65            70          101         127          127          138
Average Driver's Monthly Ordinary
Remuneration (TL) i                                    1,125         1,180       1,240        1,300        1,365       1,500
Average Driver's Annual Ordinary
Remuneration (TL)                                     13,500        14,16o      14,88o       15,600       16,380       18,000
Total Drivers' Annual Ordinary
Remuneration (TL)                                    877,500       991,200   1,502,880   1,981,200   2,080,260   2,484,o0o
Gratuities, Allowances, Etc. i/                        359,775       406,392     616 181      812,292      852,907   1,863,000
Estimated Staff Costs - Drivers                       <,237,275    1,397,592   2,119,061   2,793,492   2,933,167   4,347,000
Average Total TCZB Loans
Cutstanding (TL Million)                              11,249        12,878      13,833       15,659       20,847      30,239
Average SCP Loans Outstanding                              150           186          198         238          349          479
SCP Outstandings as Percent of
Total Outstandings                                         1.3%          1.4%         1.4%        1.5%         1.7%         1.6%
Total TCZB Salaries & Wages                                317           400          527         54o          664          791
Less: Estimated SCP Staff Costs                            5             5            8          10           11           15
Non SCP Staff Costs                                        312           395          519          530         63           776
Portion Attributable to SCP                                   4            6            8            9          11           12
Deoreciation & Other TCZB EXpenses - Net                    87            98          134          110         133          291
Portion Attributable to SCP                                   1            1            2            2           2            5
Total Operating Overheads - Attributable to SCP               5            7           10           11          13           17
Total TCZB Interest Costs (TL Million)                     543           678          807         805          961        1,557
Portion Attributable to SCP (TL Million)                      7            9           12           13          17           25
i/ Excluding TOPRAKSU Loans (for minor irrigation) made by the Supervised Credit Division.
| Estimates for 1969-1973 based on 1965-67 Data Showing Salaries as 71 percent of total staff costs.  In 1974 hard work
premiums were revised considerably to TL1200-TL28DO monthly.  It is estimated, that the average premium amounted to
50% and other gratuities etc. to 25% of the ordinary remuneration.
2/ Estimated in man-equivalent units, assuming one driver per vehicle, .75 vehicles per supervisor, and 80 percent of
each driver's time (i.e., 4 days per week) devoted to SCP transport.
Assumes drivers received TL 1,500 monthly in mid-1974, 10 percent increment 1973-74, 5 percent in other years.
2/ Eased on mid-1974 actuals, assuming 10 percent increment 1973-74 and 5 percent in all other years.



APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Provisional Analysis of thes Lender's Performance
Under the Supervised Credit Program (SCP) i'
1969-1974
(-T o O r As Of     D  cae m b e r  3 1-)
1969          1970         lq1972                       193
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                    TL            TL            TL            TL             TL           TL
Million        ilUon  II  Nillion %jj    Million        Million  12/ Million   1
Estimated Staff Costs
- Engineers                          3              3            4             4             4             5
- Technicians                        1             1             2             3             4            6
- Drivers                            1             1             2              3             3      
TOTAL                            7      3.3     7   2.7      WT   4.0    10  4.2          U   3.2    13   3.1
TCZBOverhead4 Attributable to SCP      5    3.3       7  3.8      10    5.1    11  4.6        13   3.7    17   3.6
Cost of Funds Employed                 7   4.7       9  4.8       12    6.1    13   5.5       17   4.9    25   5.2
Bad Debt Provisioni2/                   2 !           2  1.1        2   1.0                     6         1.5
Estimated Total SCP Costs              19  12.6      2                           34    6.0 O7  13.5    64  13.4
Active Accounts                    10,800        13,148        14,575        16,783        20,241       22,396
Cost per Account (TL)              1,759         1,749         2,196         2,264          2,322        2,858
Average SCP Loans Outstanding,       150            186           198           238           349          479
(TL Million)
/ Excluding TOPRAKSU Loans (for minor irrigation) made by the Supervised Credit Division.
i/ Estimated at 2 percent of disbursements.
3/ Peroent of outstandings.



Annex 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICi'LTIRAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKCEY
Farm Model: Development of a Citrue Orchard (10 deonree)
A. Projected Inneaw Stateaseot
Without
I          3      4       5      6       7      8       9      10       11      12       13-20
---- --- ---- --- ---- --- --- -- --(ton s/ha)-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Yield                                             N..                         -             1.0    2.5    4.9    8.4    12.5   17.4   18.2    20.0   .23.2         25.7
7.5                                -     1 .6    4.0    7.8   13.4    20.0   27.8   29.1    32.0    37.1         41.2
'Operating Expense.
veroiiier-                                                               0.3    0.8    1.1    1.5    1.6    1.7        2.3    3.5    2.9      2.7      2.9       2.9
l/mnure/4                                                         -       -       -     2.8      -     2.8      -      2.8      -     2.8       -      2.2       1.4
Irriga6tin/5                                  )                    -     0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5        0.5    0.5    C.5       0.5     0.5       0.5
Flant Protectio4l                             )                    -       3    0.5    0.9    i.6    2.0    2.1        2.1    2.1    2.1       2.1     2.1       2.1
Marketing ooto.7                              )                    -      -       -      -      0.1    0.2    0.2      0.3    0.4    0.4       0.5     0.5       0.6
Hired Labor!_8 3                                                   -                                           0.1     0.2    0.3    0.3       0.4     0.4       0.5
otal Operating Expen.en                    75                  _        T         5 T      37 t.li                  87    7El      75     7         972      _75
Operating In-Me                                   4.0                _     (1.1)  ( 1. 8)  (3.7)   0.3    0.7    8.8    11.8   21.0   20.1    25.8    079          33.2
Increnental.Operating Income                                     (4.0)  (5.1)  (5.8)  (7.7)  (3.7)  (3.3)   4.8        7.8   17.0   16.1    21.9    23.9        29.2
B.  1ro9ecte Pinannial Rate of Return  '
-.inancial Rate of Return      173
'ensitivy Tent
Inve6tment Conts + 10%:  176
Operating Costs  + 10%    17%
Groos Revenue    - 10%      1i6
C.  Projected COeh Flow Statement
1    2        3       4      5       6      7       8      9       10      01       1 2      13n-20
--       -  -  - -  - -  --------(Te. 0000 )  -------------------------------------     -- - - - - -
Tnflow
fond  Generated                                                 (4.0)  (5.1)  (5.8)  (7.7)  (3.7)  (3.3)   4.8    7.8   17.0    16.]    21.9    23.3           29.2
Ou'er'n C-otribotion                                             0.(    8.0    8.0    8.0    5.0    2.0
Medioc T.ee  Credit /10                                          17.0     -       -      -       -      -
Siort Tern TreditLll                                             3.2    4.0    4.3      6.2    6.2    6.      4o4.2 6                  - 2 4 
Total inflow                                                 26.2    6         T    672   67-       6-    11.    12         O     1       6        23 9     29.2

Got flow
Inrestmeets:  t      lte o suppij%2                              5.0
land PYrparation .13                               4.o
Planting 114                                      9.2
Fertili'er 117                                     0.3     -        _      _      _       _              _      _        _       _
Total Investments Ton                                        21.3 3
Debt Service:  Principal MOTC                                                                                 2.8    2.6    2.9       2.8     2.8      3.0
2T0
Intere*t  MO -C    3.2    4.o    1.9    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    4.2                                                -       -
STC                                    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.6    1.3    1.0         0.7      0.4     '.2
270                         ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~0.3    o.4    0.5    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7,   0.5  -  -       -        -        -
Total Outflow                                                T77    735  7375 o735   7             3       137o 877               77  Ir72          3
Net Ilflow (Outflow)
Annoal                                                           2.7    1.8 4    .7   (I.o)  (1.2)  (3.9) (0.3)    1.2    9.0    12.6  iB.6           20.7      29.2
Cun-lative                                                       2.7    4.i    4.8    3.8    2.5   (1.4) (1.7)   (0.5)   d.5    21.3   39.9             6
/1 Pee-Project incone is calculated froe irrigated farming with annual crops.
i2 noased on the following orchard compo6ition, yields (kg/ha) and utinE
a we-ghted price per  gg of TL1.60 and 4i6 treej/ha years t-9, 208 treen/h.a year* 9..
Annual Yields (kg/he)
Lboone:    Interdoanao        572          1767re                                     o30  1,050  2,445  4,390  7,335  10.400  11,160  12,20Q  13,970  13,370
2thcr carieties   @ 2           1,67                                      900  2,095  4,190  7,335 11,180  16,065  16,76   18,160  21,660  24,450
Oranges:   Frenh               9     2.5   1.67                                     1,050  2,800  5,585  9,085 12,920  i8,160  18,860  20,960  24,450  26,545
Factory            @ 0.5        1.67                                    1,395  3,490  6,635 11,180 16,'765  22,355  23,400  25,850  30,040  33,535
Orapefrmit:                   9  0.7       1.67                                     1,200  3,590  4,185 11,375 16,765  22,755  23,950  26,345  29,940  32,335
Idnodorin:             9~~~~~~ 2.25  1.67                                      900  1,750  3,490  6,285  9,780  14,670  15,020  16,065  19,860  21,660
/3    Fertilfcer 16N:16P 20  1640 @ TI 2.80/ kg and mten of aPplication ri.ing               LIO   80o   of inveatnent   costs; 11% iotereat, repaynent period 12 yearn
from 0.3 kg/tree ye  2,  o 5 kg/tres  year 10 after.                                         including 6 yearn of grace.
Dry manors it years  4,6,8,10,12, etc. at 30  kg/tree  and TL  225/ton.                      116  interst.
Pt T o. 50/dec-re.                                                                    ZE2 Actual cost of finding and tapping a ouitable water B pply.   a
o    White oil, organo-vhonphate*, ninc and solfur *prays, herbicides.                            vary widely, bht project is generally abandoned if n0t in coo
7.    Containers  and  transoort costs.                                                            high.   The  fig-      f    TL5,000  is  rePre*entati  c    i.
TI. 70/day for harvet labor reqoireento exceeding fanily labor capacity.                      i     T3 Lev fllirg ( oL2,400/), drainage  (TL900/ha)  deep  -1ti-tion  (T140o/hs)
Cslculated using lncreaental operating income less incremental total                         second plowing (TI200/ha), re-levelling  (TL50/ha), irtra-orciard water
investment coot.t   In  this emPl   the  inecre-ental total inee-tment -ost                  di*tributioo  (TL50/ha).
equals the investment coat.                                                           j4   Trees (420/ha 8 TL20/tree), traneport (420 trees 9 TL/tree)  otakes
(2/tree 9 TLO15/ntake),protective w-apa (kg/42 trees @ TL15/kg, rope
5 kg/ha @ TL17.50/kg).
15   Superphosphate (1kg/tree      TLO.75).
216   30 kg/tree      TL225/ton.



I7.20 1540061                         -4207  044 4  2.17104247                                         00
10.4'4.e                                                     3.5      E.,1          4.0       6.0   o.0       6.0       417      t.      4.,           4.0       l.1
01.4744144                       -            6~~~~~~~~              ~    ~ ~~~~~...  4.0  -  3.0   3.0  32 .2                          2  .,      .10
Tcc4oc                             0~~    ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~.3  340 e 3-.    3.4.     03.7  E-7.        9.7      00.7  0329                       2        3
Coo dcc                          -          ~~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~ ~~~~10,1  10.6  - 1.~0.  12.0~   12.0  42,4    -_    -             .,       41
Seceral BcoI'44'c 54db    abort'S            ~~~~     ~~~~6.0  6..1161.4   1                   .161.4 n.1    ii.465111..
Reoao..4T1.4110.4441.4O4L                             0.         1.       .              .5   S.2      0.2        0.1   2.5-                               17
Oo440cot.-   ,               )                4.3     ~~~~~~~~~~~~1.3  1        . i.3          1.3 .8            .2 YI.     1.2                   1.2
oclIcogOo.41.c440c12                         3.~~~~~3.3 .33 .3                  .3 1   .9      3.3        33    11.      )'                    
blT  perati.g lcpcid4ot.r               1.7         iT          T                            2OT'  in 2i        9T       T          T          in
0044747140074                       .0         ~~~~~     ~~~~         ~~~~~24.2    L4.1  6.-  22.714. 1.001.1  00.o4.        713.         0.1      ..LI
/1.~           RH 0. ~
F-.174041   242 T.%7               1                 .        14.70
1.4474.14    .:       11               36       047041
.1.cl70000"40                         ~~~~~       ~~~~         ~~19.2  1~. 2  19,2  1.4  19.2        140         1).2        '1.2        40.      1.2          1       o.2IL2
7.44.1.44'1.2071.'1.o11.95      '0.            -            -~~~~~~~~7.  -2        -77        -9.          -1.          -1 2                        -
41.17-.lco1.'cA.o5                          4417 le1.'.              12.           4>           5'                                    -          -                 
2744 0774'004-4'r400047  01.00      o.1.         S.c~~~~':    37.1        1.o2         53.        20           2.          32.0        2.7               9
00040417410~~  ~ ~~~~:'   1.3   175                  .0          .           5.0 .6.                               .          .               1 
O       ofloc-                              110.5        32-.2        047T         24.-1      _21.0        TOT         IT            OTS        'S 
Cs                                                111217            .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z712-  04                                                   2
077004  1.70407471                    44.0         10.3~        ~~~ ~ 0.0   16. 4        112744   4,0 036                                                               34
obhct -or   doootL1                                 15.0        170          15.17                                                 'how4 544,10 0I1.1.                               6's
470               ~~        ~~~~ ~ ~~~- 14'.0  05.0   15.0           -2                                                             07             .
T17.4-t1  27 .8                                 2.8          77                                                                     0404    44        0.             .
40           .0         1.7          1.0           -                                                                   o0      1.2          0.7
74   00o     tOnflo,c)                                                                                                      7e5o  4fTOw :t OOTO7174T
1co1                                         1~7.          1.'         00.3)        1.0         14.2                            I00                             *4            ..4
74447  174                          ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~1.7.7  1-.    6 1        117.'        30437_                          044   40                          .2           0.0
15                  35 ''"                 --144014 
321                                       15 
1~~  30  -d                      I ... 1-     .-30               4150                                            0025110,
I  35    34                6o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         1       _
3                                                                                                                          70-..        54de ;C -      2    I 1~5~  7~ .d00  04440 044.4 No  2.140414      .4
.~L d71  1.  41.(11lv             .t),                         I 7 323o'3   0/a    .
-1-e45' -4tit  31.17'l                                                                                             1.             -1          -                                          -
?   Lt  et'i-                                                                    71~~~~~        od           31         10              75741                      317       1.41
041           ~    IC             7                             41         '3        0021
740761.71.474,4  2257/14740400140443427711.415/1                        67           (441      L6             480-             34           71--7 
N.13  -'O ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    344          64          13                           37             17      17
T4 PIo        --1 o700dT1 040 I , I                                                                                                                                   4.2,1e-
..........   1.4a__.34                                                                             4       .4  44        001               .o.0         0.5      1.441         457
,'7                          1-                                                               th,  -_--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O440044144.4770 70044470
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~174414   (24   444                                                                    10,44                      11001
rg    I  t~~~~~~~104.1.  04.1    40                            17t14.   4147200                       0401200L1e70                     70014    44411.
Y-       77  -d                                                      ,0                           '""TTO"""""                       ~          0






A,'tATY2L C'
-N 0Y.71tI.'['rl0L (06111 30?3 A' 0115 tl FT'l 3 ePOCECY
Table b
Farm tode: 1:t.eeter' ocatien of Wheat Pru,drsoiorr  300 detctrsA
-. =rojected I.et  Statement
EmOtes,r     Theat       Total           1           2-7  '~
Tield
,_ea  h2                                                        NA          125         123           125           165
Cue:tort WortS.                                                 IA           NA          NA           300          6oD
Ortss    --                                                      ----------------E--.--------------       -o )-----------------
WhmeSt L     ,                                                  NA          46.9       46.9             4h .9        t1.9
Cister  Work-                                                   NA           IIA        NA             12.8
tot-al :roots 8e"leuee                  No                          1      i      8,73             597
loerat.ihrt (teds
Pl-h..L        :terse H  -                                      -                                       NA           NA
L_~   Tractcr                                     4 5                     4.5              1            1.0
Weed Ctonrol:  telrH e                                          -            ra         NA iA                         NhA
:i1NA        NA         NA            0.           Q0.5
Rowing         :. rtadee  - Seed          /                   7.2            tA        7_2              NA           tA
_    retili-et                   2.9 a          a        2.8               20           NA
E: rlded   - ceteLA                          NA           5tA        NA              5.4          5,4
- oertili -eN                                  IA NO  N   NA              6.2          h.2
r  - nrfectorl                       -                        -03                          .
H-etiride      :Fnd3              -t /12                                    i 8.4      i.4              O.           402
E--    :          ftaT7Co-tt 1-d n                              NA          7.3                       733
HE-dZ.                                       NA            -          _               -            -
T  -eh,n@                                                       NA          0:                            0         (.0^o    
Tnseater f     /18                                              4A          o,L        o.4 .4.r4                    0 4
Horse Rce ens'-                                                2.9          2.         3.85            2 8           23 
Mehetthaenee6%                        /2d                      o.9          0.1        1.5             3.1           5.1
rector R.nnins-k (ester   0uen   WaAorh                         Io          tiA         NA             0.8          0.7
T-ua-  -peratiug Codts                                     =,          12.5       3.0             3572         34.9
Net Opoe.neg E Ic-e                                               _NA          riA       16.3             20.5         52.5
So.eeenlentl tperatheg dncoF*                                   Sit A                  -A _           12.2         36.2
B,  Ertrceceed Ftan-ctel Rlat  of ROtora-
Tissnlnidl ate ef beturrr,     277
3eoshtolit, Test
IStestuot Co:t:  I 10       22,
thetetihg Costs  a 13:  260
5ocseFo evr--     - dOr  21%
C.  pre-jetd Caih Flpn Setet-eat
1              2           3           4           3                         7
---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- _ _ (  TL   '   000:) -- -- -- -   -------- --------
Fonds  dn1reotsO                                           02.2           36.2        06.2        36.2        36.2         36.2         36 2
rseper's  Dnetrttib                    ..... lon  ..24.0                     -           -           -           --
ttohuesa -eh                                      324O              -              o 
M:inT-r  Credil                                        92.0
Short CT-e  ('redit                                         3.3-
lorrlt'Veo- of tractor                                                      -           _           _           -            _          12.0
otnel Inflow                                         i3r7            3378         30.2        38T2        3           ,      T 32    773
Traocr- 50 HP                           75.0              -
: Mo-ldb-ard PIugh                          5.C
Tretl r                                 25. 
ees:   ISAle of Morse                            (2.0)                                                              - 
Total I       Seta   f:-                                 -
Debt Sertics  -  Ecinhrpal MTC                               -            15.3        15.3        153.3       133          15.3          15.5
STC                             -             3.0          -           -           _            _            -
Intere:t  MTC                           10.0            10.0         8h          6.7         9.0          3-4          1.7
STC                           0.3              -           _           _           -            _            _
'otti CotflTO                                       124.9             ,f3       -3877       52           22.3         37          f772f
Net Inflov I-tfloV)
Antual                                                 6.3             7.0        12.5        lh.         1.9          17.5            o
Ctmsulative                                             6.3           14.2         26.7       4C.90        56.8         74.3       105.3
/1   A single crop Pr-d-oti-o cynie Icer: as 10-conth period cwV*nnciag with the                    /12   11.3 hbers CEL 23/hr tractor tests.
first plo-ghieg Fdd fini:hilg wihA the harvest in JulY-Augu:t of the filcstitg                  53   Pre-preject aed erotco Fear 1: 0.2 ilt-r/dscare
year.  A si. ae-th feline perird fTlltes.  Coeeeqeeatly, caly 1/2 the total  rea                                                          w     46.975/liter in
sala_ile tct be sew  s esually.  Although the gro-: ret-rna to            ens Fe ac- r e:-                                                aprgr els
late to the Eloothine. need control  ae-IlhOrbiotdal) co:ts of the Pr-i-du          - year,            Project ypars 2tr  2.0 lite-/de--re 9 Ti 46.875/1;itr
the rsa.eihit oper-titg tests (e-cl.dihg the horse Fxpenses tpd .aalteint       e n- ets)                                                 it spring.
relate To the trees rmtarn: realiped iY  teI -se y-er.  deacr:rg, o.-ual eperatiag              /14   At TL 37/deos-c Vi9 hired tractor-do-en co-bi-e caner 47.5t
coets rematn ccesttnt vOca tJhe e"e acreage ls sen aanra-11y sod no change is  ade                     ef area.
in the  e:thod of producticn. Ite projet ypar 1 this is not the case Fnd thO  gress             /15   2.85- of as- hband h      rvested.  Direc  cast cost-sort.  It-
cen-ett  of tho  pre- rcst sit mtion see linked with the cp-rnting  -ate (ideatifeod                  ditrmt rash coats Ir.lcoed ::d ietenanc.
'aIec  of prcjsrt period Year 1.                                                                L6   2.3% cf harvest thresbed 6 :L 51h/O  for hicrt eathio-  (apprec-
/2   Og/densos.-                                                                                            sloai IpY 750 dg cheat/hr._
A, A   TL  I       erstitad 150 de-atI/y       trs.    o             e8    freprejft 2torsca;project l hrc.  rend per hcr   pe
Mehaied Poprti-  -ly at TL 40(decas  ploghing ad w ed   otl; T                              5                       tr n  tadditio   o gracinS-  C) Fte 0.75 to a TL 2,200;
fear: g  trator dr_mn    Av-g:- t  TL 42.5/deters.   awb_                    caoss/                    (  af  0   ton  grass) 2t too 0  1.y 1,40c/ton; (C) M*at Coned-n
y ...                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teats 0.2 ton H TL. 2,003/ton
PIo 'et Ydar            1               2-7                                                                            0     750
Notfdeekr            300                608                                                                            C      3400
osrt-r h-r:           36                 72                                                                            C     60
/6   Pcr-_prc.:ot:  .Oosra lehor, hoos: k.d ed-ePo ploagh - 4 hre./d-ta-r  coe-ring hp-
p.c.e-otely 408  of toss before beicg  blto  ire t c h  e-h-oissd sit:rnstir: at TL 50/dscars.
Proj-ot:  50 0HtoctP       3 bo-c  3 pniot  ihoke  oeaOdboad Elena.  3.5 dncer/hr. at                    __      t: __           _ ,           2h _          g    fT
TO 23 ost ef op legtrattg   t r  elo ly  gg  f-otrtt  2/).                              /t               or s-projent:  aors  oslaeeeantH H trs1-  t_mecets o TL 5r ,/s:- /grn
L/    Ore-proletr  Stre I:bor sod  -eor   ed eqiout etly.  Nfsi-* of 2 wci                                                 (1  oc:r Ta .         e a          ir
r-oe hrg.i   r                                                                                        Irustot:  tooOOtoaOd pIca, harr--, toteP, 4-too tract   t-c l-riOO 0p033 rnnw-
7/    P p-Yre p ejt:   Su/ecat: A T                f  0/A/.                                                            nal price-           ifrpeh -        be a--  straiereos t rl   t pro at _r
A-         -omu* gllf:te _ At E-Wiog 10 kg/d--o   o Tsc                                                   300 . .- yar.  fe tonal dT CL 5,11/pc- a-mnul Ye pr. tee
-3          T h kg/dcoTe. -(on    1ra                                                     d it -L 1.25tskg.ypcrtdoosO  eqhil1y bet.o tOt 2 yp
/13  Pro n       3 h./loca oc   TL 3/k,A.
[1  Orpejtr:  DAP 130 eg/d         . TI. ;1/hg It                                                           Zle2res the        '   -- ad bcoro  -e i,2 0 hours Per Year.  (Mal,  tart
,f  hdith  ill11to  or torc-o                 P-nr.to  rdl-ti-o(.
'L/h-,l
T el  -     J.  l-t/e/hr ,r CL 2.50/liter         1125
Dtho _tt  - 2Ds  of Orl rt                         2.'5
pp-r  pora sod croilos at 350 fur  sod
ibtricknte         4.73
Yosuratct sad maPce-aonoa 5 itO  epecatiut
meet ocet.  ETthOlscsmpitnhPehtots s.tth    tetal i-neetment cost eusthe
inv:stment coat.






APPRAISAL OF
AN A11ICH11IRAI, CREDI'I AND AROIINDUS'RIES PROJEC'J
11 1RNEY
Model: O-Fare Apple Storage FacilitiesAl
A. Projected Income Statement
'je:hout.i             z          3           4        5          6         7.;3                 9          io           1 -30
/2~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Z9.9 --------------------------------------Tons Apples ---------------------- _--__-- ___________---______
YieldL2                                            16         16         i6         16         16        16         16       16         16         16          161
Gr,oss ReveneL                              624.0        24.0       4o.o      40.0        40.0      40.0      40.o      4o.0       60.0      40.0        60.0         4o.0
Incremental Gro.:s Revenue                   N.A           -       16.0       16.0        16.0     16.0       i6.o      16.0       16.0      16.0        16.0         16.0
Incremental Opeisating R 'ensesL/
Incremental Operating Income                                        i6.o      16.0        i6.o     i6.o       16.0      i6.o       16.0      16.0        16.0         16.0
B. Projected Finaiicial Rate of Return/5
Financeial Rate of Return:    17 r
Senitivity Test
Invei3t.ent Costs +lO%      15%
ross Revenue    -O1t0:    15%
C. Projected Cash Flow Statement
. 2                  3           ;        5          6        7          0          9          10          11-30
Inflov                                                    _______________________________________--_-----__(TL 'OOOs)------------------------------- -----------------
Foods ;eneraled                                            -        16.0      16.0        16.0     16.0       16.0      16.0       16.0      16.0        i6.0         i6.0
Owner's Co-trib.tli                                      16.0         -
Medium Term Credt.                                       64.          -
Short TYes  Credit ta                                    20.0       15.0      12.0        9.0        5.0
rotal laflow                                       100.0       W.       37'          25.0  i             1 i                 16.0
Outflow
InvestmentL/                                             80.0         -          -          -
Debt Service - Principal MTC                              6.4        6.4       6.4         6.4       6.4       6.4       6.4        6.         6.4         6.4
STC                              -       20.0       15.0       12.0       9.0        5.0        -         -          -           -
- Interest  MTC                             6.7        6.0       5.4        46.7       6.0        3.       2.7        2.0        1.3         0.7
STC                            2.2        1.7        1.3        1.0       0.6         -         -         -          -           - 
Total Outflow                    95.3                         TT        =2          2rT       20         TTF.      "9-T      -  .        '7:         7T
Net Inflow (Outflow)
Annual                                                    4.7       (3.1)      (0.1)       0.9       1.0        1.2      6.9        7.6        8.3         8.9         16.0
Cumulative                                                4.7        1,6       1.5         2. 4      3.4        4.6     11.5       19.1       27.4        36.3
/L  To be installed oc an esisting orchard to provide over-winter storage and extend the sale perui.o by op to 3 - 4 months pe.mitting the same harvested yields to
be more profitably marketed.
2 Assunes 16 tons total orchard yield of apples.
A-somes TL 1/kg price differential.  For example, TL 1.50 rising to TL 2.50.
All such costs are associat.ed with family labor.
Calculated using incremental operating income less incree-ntal total investment cost.  In this example the incremental total investment cost equals the
investment cost.
80% of in-stments; 11% interest; 10 years repayment.
~7 11 interest.
One solid stone/cement (roof and floor) boilding, one third buried i. ground; bare of any aceessories, free of maintenance at cost of construction.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                                                                    3
TUIKEY                                                                                  Table 10
Farm Model: Animal Fattening Barn (50 head) aI
A.  Projected Income Statement
----------------------------------------------------------------- Years --------------------_______________________________________________
1          2           3          4           5           6           7           8          9          10          11U         12          13          14         15
..................................................................... ....................................................................# head
Throughput                                           20        30          40          50         50          50          50          50         50          50          50          50          50         50          50
...................................................................  ........................................................................'0
Gross Revenues /2                                    68.3    102.5        136.6      170.8       170.8       170.8       170.8      170.8       170.8       170.8       170.8       170.8       170.8      170.8       170.8
Operating Expenses a2                               5Lh                  j62J3l 1. 11,3.q                               1J34.       143-        W. C             5 jb3.s  143.5     143.5       143.5      143.5       143.5
Net Operating Income                                :92.       16.4        21 8        27.3       27.3        27.3        27.3       27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3       27.3
B.  Projected Financial Rate of Return La
Financial Rate of  Return:  39%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs +107        :  35%
Operating Expenses +10o% :   16%
Revenues  -10%               :  11%
C. Projected Cash Flow Statement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   __Years..-_____          __----_-       
1  2       3           4          ~~         ~~          ~      ~    ~~          ~    ~ ~~~5  6  7  8  9  10  11    12          13          14          15
.................. .................. ........................... TL          ' 0    ..................................     ......   ......  .......  ......   ......
Inflow
Funds Generated                                 10         16.4       21.8        27.3      27.3         27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3       27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3
Owner's Contribution                            25.0       10.0       10.0          .0                           -          -           -                 -           -           -          -           -           -
Medium Term Credit                              56.0                               -           -                 -                -           -           -           -                -
Seasonal Credit                                 50.0      65.0        80.0        95.0        85.0       75.0        65.0        45.0       35.0        20.0
Total Inflow                             1 1.9       91.4 l     11Ra       131 -.3     112_.3     102.3        92.3        72.3        62.3        47.3       27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3        27.3
Outflow
Investment:  Animal Barn                        50          -                      -           -           -          -                       -           -                      -           -           - 
Peed Barn                        10          -
Silage Pit                       10                     -           -          -           -           -          -           -           - _                                -            _
Total Investment                          70          -                                                                                 -          -
Dedt Service   Principal MTC/4                       -         -           5.6         5.6         5.6        5.6        5.6          5.6        9.6         9.6         5.6         5.6
"L5                  50.0      65.0        &8 ,)  Y 5.v            35.J        15.0      o5.)         -5.)        35.0       \  _ _
-'nte_vtfi   Mn''             6.2        6.2         6.2        5.5         4.9         4.3        3.7         3.1         2.5         1.8         1.2         o.6
Total Outflow         1.8       2.4         2.9         3.5        3.1         2.8        2.4          1.7        1.3          .7         -           _           _
Total Outflow                            175   7W               97         109.6   =9                7T 87,77              595   _ W   _                  _
Net Inflow (Outflow)
Annual                                         13.9      17.8        17.1        21.7       13.1        14.o       15.b         16.9       17.9        19.2        20.5        21.1        27.3        27.3       27.3
Cumulative                                      -                                                                               3T.       iI1                                             237         264$ 29I*
13)-9     31.3        49           G-5         F         :9W                                           i J  I% li.  1          2 =i.        5==~ 246               A-
/ Based on one fattening cycle per year.
Based on Annex 5, Table with 110 days fattening period, excluding interest.
7   Calculated using incremental operating income less incremental total investment.  In thin example the incremental total investment cost equals the investment cost.
2 years grace + 10 years repayment at 11.0% interest.
[     1% interest repaid in 4 months.



AN AGRICUL1TURAL1 CRIPIT AND AOXINDMII0 IIWS 10 T0
Ps.M Mods11 Usa Prodotie  (1.000 leinis  heam
Egos ('000.)                                  5.0       171.1      117.9      162.6      150.2       150.5      150.5    150.2       150.5      150.5      150.5     150.5      150.5
Cll gIBrd,                                    0.0       491        471        922        628 ~T    620          620       620        628       628        428        620        628
Meemr                                           -          --                              -         0li 'ose)    -         -          -          -          .-
Gt,-e Evew   /2                                   4.3       154.5      109.1     155.6      140.0       140.0      14. 540.0       140.0     140.0            140.0 140.0IW        140.0
Operating  oEn..... /3                           15.5       114.3      96.61j14.3           106.4       108.4      508.4    106.4       100.4      508.4      100.4     100.4      106.4
ONt 0pso,at1n  bo-.                             fl          A3         A L         13        50.6:       31.6      7-6    -371.6         51.-6      51.6       336      jj1-         =l6
B.  Prnleotd Fix.enel.. Hat. of Oatua'n4
POinCill Rate of  Nt-een        601
laveat,Ant Costa  +101       377.
Op-ttirg.. teat    -101      251
Ores. Re-no         101    '201
C.  Pr01001d C-b l..03.0   llhat
.Tear.................                                                        --1, .....
2  2         3          4~~~~~~~-A  5        6           7          8          9         10         A         1          1
-  (TL '0'                                                                        ___
Poed. Geocretd                                (11.05      40.2       12.5       42.3       31.6        31.6       31.6      31.6       31.6       31.4       31.6      31.6       31.6
On,raCuttrb.tio                           15.0          -                                -           -          .         .         -          -
Media Tea Credit                               52.0               -          -                -          -          .         -          -          -          -
Short Teem Credit                              30.0      110.0      130.0      115.0      110.0       [02.0       92.0      75.0       50.0       30.0                              -
Total                                   04.0       150.2      14-2.1     Y56        1741.6      152.36    1236    10-6.6        01.6       6~1.6      51.6       5 1.6     -31.6
IttveOtaot   l1osig~ 15                        60.0          -          -         -                      -          --                              --                              -
Total 1 lotte,tt                               65.35                                                                                                  
Debt Seroice - Prl.top.l M1C a7                  -         0.7         0.7       0.7        6.7         8.7        8.5        .                     .          -          -          -
OTtc                 -         30.0      110.0      130.0      115.2       110.0      102.0      92.0      75.0        50.0      30.0         -          -
ioto-CtMI 71(                  3.7         5.7        4.6        3.0        2.8         1.9        0.9        -          -          -                    -          -
S TC                      3.5        12.1       14.3      52.7       12.1        11.2       10.1       0.2        5.5        3.3                               -
Total                                   74.5        R56       AMI        152       B586         151.0     F 1Ls      7oo--      00-       713~        3TO0~ 
9-t101 loO     (O.tflboo                          9.5        93.7       4.         L.1        3.0         1.0         2.1      6.4        1.1        0..3       ..6       31.6       31,6
ClOotlutiOO  ~~~~~~~~~~~~            I3!72 ~~~~~~~O7.6    109~~~~~~.0  112.5     113.0      115.9    122.3       225.4      1Ti        6~        .~           8.
A-eooptiotte for O.e Pood.ttie  CYcle                                                       5        OISTO3_1
Egg Layi.9                                                                                .e.....O             ..... 
Flock Pr.i-ctioc
"Pu.rchaoed'aod Openi.Sg ird No..         "50.        522        517        513        509        505        500        494        400        483       477        471        445
forts4iity                                20B         1          4          4          4          5          2          3          2                     2         3         14
(2db           -                     -          -          .          -          ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~        ~    ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  3  3 3 4  5 23
Cloaino Biod Not.  Salee'  122        117 ~~~~~~-113       1509       -505        5500      4Z94        4008-      1 43-      477       471        465        '40
525                                      4-83--48
Acer-ge 8N. tiOd  per peri.d               536        570        311        511        507        572        497        491        405        480        474       468        447
As-oepcioe_   Notalli,typerlud ('.            5          1       0-75      0-75       0175          1                                    33
C 11iog/peetod   (7,          0          0          0          0          5          0                                    45
tolt/bitdIp.ri.d             -          -                                            O   1                               120                              , 110
toge /A.                                                          .                    4.5                                              49.3                                  41.9
C.,,e    4    0a1eOL.-                                            -          -          -                                                034   __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _0__ _         3
Totel                                                            40.3                                                             49.7                                   50.0
1.At 516O85/egg                    .Lb  Ac 7L20/bird                         S. lt eqoal to cot of h-ti.g  -atrmeov-d
0-0                                                              7.12                                 13.18
Chick po-han f.                                                        3.5                                                               0.                                   0.0
Feed:  ?c-o16                                                          7.77                                                            20.75                                 20.3
FlctaOo                                                        O'pcsntb  .                                                       0.4                                   0.4
Oeteottr i   oeeaOoceto                                                0.06                                                             0.07                                  0.7
r "cteO             -Other SuPpp21ee1                                2.9                                                             20.64                                  2.45
Lill-0.5l                                                                                                                         0.2                                   0.2
h.celiy,,0.                                                                                                                       0.3                                   0.3
tt 1cllo -o-u-i ..                                                  0.15                                                             0.1                                   0.15
Total Operatiog !upen....                                       15.3                                                              332.0                                 33.0
At AL6Ibi(hick                                                                                  MONTH
lb. Feed Pr-ci. 130.46 deya/m...th)          1          2          5          4          5          6         7                     9         15         12         12       13-10
Saily Coneomptioc/hld (gree)           0         12         16         32         64         90        123       145        145        145        145        145        145
Tot.l C-cnooPtioe/PepIed (tot)         0.13       0.19       0.25       0.50       0.99       1.4        1.9        2.2        2.1       2.1        2.1        2.1       12.3
/0  o.ti.peidiloo)                            3.45                                                            12.5                                    12.3
C-atto                                (1.9)      (2.1)     72.1)      (2.21       (2.31      12.35     92.35      12.37         (2.5) 12.3)    92.31         12.35      12.3)
Lt  Atp.Ao  I kg/Ice pre-ni  at T1,O/kIt  Taken  tl 3ys.ya  of torsl i.-.to,Ot.  Allocted 40t0 6 moe. periods
Id A :o-: 3  -eati-at... /Fear/bird 13 75O.10.  tor --cine sed ta-n-ner d.oIn  -e  .aocltito. L cod tea sto            wec      rduction  -cle..
21-.TL.03 /bird/day.                                                                          A. -tsc  averge daily usage of n3. 3 -oYnoy           ett-gly cithe.....n
'A.-   licreo is changed  -VOy 10 doy, at coa t of TLIO.(Vh.og.                                    foe the whole hou.e or TT1.6.5/b.tch.
1iTo conr epa....dic orteia-y cotta, etc.  Ott ac anOns  basit sI
T6,0Q which i. .qui-I... oa T115.0 - 5 pec cycle pt 6 ..., pe riod 6.4-.
/4   Rs.aed on incraoetc1 operating incaI.. leaiooreot.1 total inveet-et coat.  In this  .asp. the ioc-metal t0t01 iooeanent coot equal the in-st-et cost
Oaats- -  of I btlok-.tonn  *noetp  wt  --nc  ned aleetete pss  Ilad Os  Lke feed s_d  0 ae_e  pea.  _rm   _d.
L6 terl.d.s electric  light, heCter.,..alf-fnadet   -d ve N.10 in,dIvid.l eaS.a but batebee ar  kapt separate by tora-ry  (h...iae) dloid-
17Os Goot y* .  6 yearn rePaymet at 111 I.te...at.



;~   AANNEX 3
Table 12
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Farm Model: Short-Term Credit for Wheat Production (100 decares,
A. Projected Income Statement
-  Without Project                  With Project
kg/decare      -        TL     kg/decare        TL
Gross Revenue
Wheat41                                    '120           15,000           16o       .20,000
Straw!2                                     240           6,000           320          8,o0o
Total Gross Revenue                                  21,000                       28,000
Operating Expe ses
Plouqsing                                   -              1,500           -           1,500
SeedL=                                      20            2,500            20          2,875
SuperphosphateLA                            15             1,125           30          2,250
Ammonium nitrateZ.                          -               -               -          1,500
Plant Prosection/7                          -              1,000            -          1,500
TransportL.-                                                 300           -             450
Total Operating Expenses                -             6,425            -          10,075
Operating Income                                 -             14,575            -         17,925
Incremental Operating Expenses              -               -               -          3,650
Incremental Operating Income                _       -                      -           3,350
B.  Projected Supervised Credit Requirements
Incremental Operating Expenses              -               -               -          3,650
Short-Term Credit Used Without Project    -                 -               -          2,500
Supervised Credit Requirements              -               -               -          6,150
g   50 decares wheat, 50 decares fallow; price:  TL 2.50/kg.
72 Feed Value: TL 0.50/kg.
D~  First ploughing with hired tractor (TI 30/decare), 2nd and 3rd ploughing with own horses.
Without project cwn seed (TL 2.50/kg); with project improved seed once in 4 years (TL 4.00/kg).
TL 0.75/kg.
TL 1.50/kg.
Without project TL 20/decare; with project TL 30/decare.
Hired tractor (TL 23/hr).



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGaROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                            ANNEX 3
TURKEY                                            Chart 1
ORGANIZATION OF THE SUPERVISED CREDIT
PROGRAM
SCP POLICY
COMMITTEE
AGRICULTURAL BANK
HEADQUARTERS
DIVISION OF SUPERVISED                                    R
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                  -                        B
CREDIT                                              (Technicall
VISED CREDIT                      CREDIT      .STATISTICS                             CLERICAL             &COLLECTIO
DEPARTMENT                                                     DEPARTMENT            DEPARTMENT            & CONTR
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                    BRANCHES
EXTENSION OFFICE
Formal Relations
___ Informal Relatsons                     BOR ROWERS
World Bank-9434






ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
The Agroindustries Component
Background
1.        Food manufacturing in Turkey accounts for about one-third of the
total industrial production. The output of manufactured foods and beverages
increased by 70% between 1962 and 1972 and export earnings increased from
US$43 million in 1963 to US$87 million in 1972. The following table shows
the growth of the various sub-sectors:
Food Industries Growth Index (1972)
in Turkey
1962 = 100
Sea and Lake Produce                                  1,500
Tea Industry                                             472
Canning Industry                                         372
Sugar Industry                                           196
Milk and Milk Products                                   195
Vegetable Oil Industry                                   184
Confectionary Industry                                   169
Meat and Meat Products                                   165
Flour and Biscuit Industrv                               149
General Food Industry Index                              168
Source:  `Turkey Exports"s, Chambers of Industry and Commerce
(Istanbul), Table 1 gives production figures from
1970 to 1973 for selected commodities.
2.        Another measure of this growth is the credit demand for new agro-
industries. The outstanding credit balances of the Agricultural Bank of
Turkey (TCZB) for this type of projects were:
Year                            TL Million
1971                               23.0
1972                               55.0
1973                              134.0
1974                              300.0



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The availability of surplus agricultural raw materials, increasing domestic
and export demand, and various specific Government incentives are important
factors motivating both private and public sector investors to expand existing
capacity or to build new plants.
3.        The principal institutions responsible for the development of
agroindustries are:
(a) The State Planning Organization (SPO), which is in charge
of setting up goals and programs for the various sectors of
the economy and establishing the necessary incentives.
(b) The Ministry of Industries, which administers the granting
of incentives.
(c) The Ministry of Agriculture, which provides support and
technical assistance, through the Projects Unit (PU) and
several research institutions (Citrus, Olive, Canning,
Leather, Agricultural Research Institutes, etc.)
(d) The Directorate of Cooperatives of Ministry of Village Affairs
(DC-MVA) which is in charge of assisting and helping to or-
ganize cooperatives in the rural areas, for which some finan-
cial resources are provided in the form of grants and credits.
(e) TCZB which supplies the bulk of the Government credit
available for agroindustries.
(f) IGEME which is an export-promoting agency under the
Ministry of Commerce carries out research in the field of
marketing, assisting exporters and coordinating export
activities.
4.        Shortage of credit and lack of technical assistance have conspired
against the sector. Due to lack of financial resources, TCZB has been
forced to reject 40 to 50% of the loan applications and to grant inadequate
loan amounts for approved loan requests. There are other projects which did
not satisfy requirements because the entrepreneur (generally a cooperative
of farmers) did not have sufficient experience to present them in a form
suitable for financial review. In other instances, projects which were
initiated based on incomplete and out-of-date feasibility studies, realized
too late that either financial plans, technical and engineering aspects, raw
material availability, market outlets or other factors had not been taken
into account. Despite these negative aspects, agroindustries in Turkey offer
a good potential for investment and further development. Bank participation
would not only provide credit but would help strengthen existing institutions
and organize technical assistance to minimize failures and waste of resources.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Objectives
5.        The proposed Agroindustrial Credit component would set the fol-
lowing objectives:
(a) Facilitate the establishment of new enterprises and help
expand, complete and vertically integrate existing installa-
tions for agroindustrial activities.
(b) Build on the capabilities of existing Turkish institutions,
especially of the Project Unit (PU) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, TCZB and the DC-MVA. This would strengthen their
competence in project preparation and appraisal, through
training of professional staff, which in turn would provide
technical assistance and extension services to enterprises,
cooperatives or individuals.
(c) Reduce waste and spoilage of existing agricultural raw
materials through the construction of packing and storage
facilities and find new outlets, through processing into
higher price commodities, for the internal and external
markets.
(d) Support and complement other production-oriented investment
under this project (Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Exports and
the Livestock II) and other Bank-suggested projects (Annexes
3 and 5).
These objectives are in line with the development policies and goals of Gov-
ernment and of the institutions involved.
Eligible Project Investments
6.        The Agroindustries component would provide credit for:  (a) estab-
lishment of new facilities including initial working capital; (b) expansion,
modernization and vertical integration of existing plants and installations;
and (c) cooperative-type projects for village-based rural industry investment.
Loan applications may be divided in the following categories:
(a)  Domestic and export handling facilities, including grading
and packing installations for fruits, vegetables, eggs,
poultry, meat, etc.
(b) Cold storage facilities, generally integrated with packing
and/or processing plants, including those necessary for
slaughterhouses.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(c)  Processin plants, using agricultural raw materials to
produce commodities with higher value-added components
which would be sold on export and local markets. Examples
of processing plants eligible for support under the project
are:
-    tomato paste; citrus frozen concertrates; fruit juice
concentrates (grape, cherry. peach, apricot, etc.);
extraction and refining of vegetable oils (olive,
sunflower, etc.):. slaughterhouses (cattle, sheep,
poultry); feed mills; alfalfa meal; canning of
vegetables and fruits (mushrooms included); potato
processing (chips, starch, granules, etc.); dehydration
of garlic and onions; fruit drying essential oils
(mint, aniseed, etc.); wineries; hatcheries; by-
product utilization, including the processing of
peels, cores, seeds, etc.
(d) Other facilities which would provide support, manufacture
inputs or facilitate farm production or materials for agro-
industries, such as:
-    simple agricultural machinery and equipment- card-
board box plants: can factories.
Seven models (tables 1-7) show examples of typical investments. They detail
assumptions, parameters and cash flow analysis, as a basis of subloan evalua-
tion. Other investments under the above four categories would also be elig-
ible for project support, Subloans would normally be limited to US$3 mill-
lion ($8 million total investment cost).
Responsibilities
7.        Two agencies would be involved in implementing the agroindustries
component: PU and TCZB. One of their functions would be to advise potential
subborrowers on engineering (technical feasibility), marketing and financial
planning as required by TCZB in support of subloan requests. PU is expected
to assume the greatest responsibility because of the projected strong demand
for marketing facilities and cold stores. Its demonstrated competence in
assisting subborrowers for marketing facilities under the Fresh Fruit and
Vegetable Export project would also be expanded to cover processing. TCZB
would provide technical assistance to the remaining eligible investors. The
second important function namely financial evaluation of subloan requests,
would be the sole responsibility of TCZB. Arrangements for staff training
and supporting services in respect of these two functions are discussed in
Annex 7. The DC-MYA would sponsor applications from cooperatives for invest-
ments in small village-based industries.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Constraints
8.        For medium- and long-term loans TCZB requires semi-annual repayment
of principal with interest charged on the remaining balance. This leads to
high interest payments during the first years when revenues are just beginning
to build up. Sub-borrowers' repayment burden would be more in line with re-
payment capability and TCZB's prospects of timely loan collection would be
enhanced by introducing a debt-service structure based on equal annual install-
ments (Annex 2, para 40).
9.        Container costs are high in Turkey.  The use of large containers
(steel drums, etc.) is presently discouraged because of the high cost and the
policy of the government to grant an export rebate for containers of 5 kg
capacity or less. The tendency in other countries is to simplify handling
and reduce packing and transport costs by using large size containers. Large
containers, however, require special cleaning and filling equipment and more
careful processing techniques to assure good quality.
10.       The information on export and local markets is still incomplete and
inconsistent. For foreign markets, information on quality standards, import
duties, freight costs, etc., are available primarily to a few exporting
companies with several years of experience in foreign trade. To assist in
subproject marketing analysis, both domestic and export, provisions have been
provided as part of the technical assistance component of the project for a
marketing specialist for 12 months.
Model Assumptions
11.       The seven illustrative models represent typical subprojects.  Where
available, on-site information was used to develop project parameters. Some
costs of services were taken as a percentage of the fixed investment excluding
land (maintenance and repair and insurance) or of total sales (sales expenses),
at levels considered appropriate in Turkey.
12.       For certain export items (tomato paste, and fruit and citrus juice
concentrate,) an export rebate has been granted by the Turkish Government.
However, there are indications that these may be eliminated (for tomato paste)
or substantially reduced (for other juice concentrates). Model assumptions
reflect this possibility.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
13.       Of the total investment costs, 70% including the initial working
capital, would be financed by long-term credit and the remaining 30% would be
owners' contribution. Additional seasonal credit (short-term) needed after
the first year of operation would be obtained from TCZB or from commercial
banks. TCZB would satisfy itself that provisions for seasonal working capital
are adequate.
Representative Models
14.       Tomato paste.  Turkey has favorable climatic and soil conditions for
tomato production, and with organization and management, tomatoes for process-
ing could be obtained at reasonable prices (TL 0.5/kg. including transport to
the factory). In order to assure the steady supply of tomatoes, the enter-
prise would sign contracts with the farmers and provide the seedlings of early,
normal and late varieties in quantities that would meet the production program
requirements. Investments to achieve this end are included in the model
(Table 2). In recent years production of tomatoes in Turkey has been increas-
ing as shown below:
Year                       Million Tons
1970                            1.8
1971                            1.9
1972                            2.0
1973                            2.1
Source:   State Institute of Statistics.
15.       Present licensed capacity for tomato paste is about 62,000 tons per
year, however, 60 to 70% of the installed capacitv utilizes the batch process-
ing system, generally inadequate for the high qualitv requirements of external
markets. There are also an unknown number of firms which obtained a license,
but to date have not started production.
16.       Internal markets for tomato paste have been growing, the demand
coming mainly from fisheries, prepared meals factories, restaurants, hotels,
etc. In 1974, the internal demand consumed about 20,000 tons or 1/3 of the
output. This figure does not include the homemade product which is still the
major source for the Turkish families. The potential market in Arab countries
is important. According to a study being prepared by the International Trade
Center, about 2/3 of the estimated 35,000 tons of tomato products consumed in
these countries in 1974, was imported. Here, demand appears to be for small
capacity containers (70 g. to 500 g. cans). For example. Lebanon has been
very successful in repacking imported tomato paste into smaller cans and sell-
ing it in other Arab countries. Two plants with a capacity to process 20 tons
per hour of tomatoes would be expected to be financed under the project. Pro-
duction would be about 50% for export and 50% for internal market.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
17.       Citrus frozen concentrate.  Production of citrus fruits in Turkey
in recent years is shown below:
1970    1971    1972    1973
----     '000 tons     
Oranges                          445      460     467      470
Lemons                           126      142     149      122
Grapefruit                         7        7       6      N.A.
Mandarin                          68       75      97       84
Source:   State Institute of Statistics.
The current production of citrus concentrate is mostly of the canned hot-pack
type and is consumed locally. Present licensed capacity is about 20,000 tons
of concentrate (mainly from oranges) but only 1/3 to 1/2 of the capacity is
in operating condition. One new plant under construction in Antalya will
produce frozen citrus concentrates.
18.       The main markets for the frozen concentrates (especially orange and
grapefruit) are the EEC countries. The use of large containers (55 gallon
steel drums) is a way of reducing packaging, handling and transportation costs.
However, the Government of Turkey grants the export rebate only to containers
of 5 kg or less which are difficult to sell in the EEC countries. Competition
is justified only when quality and prices are competitive. Since consumption
of soft drinks, beverages and fruit juices is expected to increase, market
prospects appear favorable in the Arab countries.
19.       Because of the uncertain market prospects it is expected that only
one plant with a capacity of 10 tons per hour of oranges would be financed
under the project (Table 2). Output from the plant would be primarily for
export.
20.       Grape juice concentrate.  With specific modifications in the ex-
traction process, the proposed plant (Table 3) could produce juice from other
fruits like apples, apricots and peaches. The production of these fruits in
Turkey has been as follows:
1970    1971    1972    1973
'000 tons             -----
Grapes                     3,680   3,853   3,434  3,344
Apples                       748      780     850    850
Peaches                      112       84     140   N.A.
Apricots                      52       34      63      77
Wild Apricots                 43       46      60   N.A.
Source:   State Institute of Statistics.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Licensed capacity for multipurpose fruit juice concentrate plants is about
60,000 tons of concentrate per year. Again, several licensed plants have
never operated and others operate below installed capacity. Their products
are sold mostly on the local market, as raw materials for the preparation of
soft drinks, beverages, etc., although some exports have been made to Europe
and Arab countries. Total fruit juice exports from Turkey are shown below.
Exports of Fruit Juice Concentrates from Turkey
1972     1973      1974
Tons                                  285       471       325
TL ('0OOs)                          1,928    6,560    5,550
TL per ton                          6,765   13,928   17,077
US$ per ton                           483       995    1,220
Source:   State Institute of Statistics.
Several juice plants have been established by groups of farmers, merchants
and Turkish laborers and there is a strong credit demand for additional plants.
Raw materials (especially grapes and apples), usually from lower grade fruit,
are readily available at reasonable prices. Market demand for juice concen-
trates as an ingredient for soft drinks is expanding both domestically and
in the Arab countries.
21.       It is expected that at least one plant of this type will be financed
under this project. Some applications for the completion of vertical integra-
tion of existing plants would also be considered.
22.       Cold storageand_packing houses.  In order to take full advantage
of agricultural production, it is necessary to extend the marketing season of
some fruits and vegetables by storing them under controlled conditions. For
export markets and also for internal consumption, proper handling, storage,
cleaning, grading and packing of produce are important for higher returns.
All these operations contribute to better presentation and preservation of
quality for an extended period of time. Therefore, it is essential for both
exporters and growers to have installations of the types described above.
The same applies for processing plants to increase the utilization of their
capacity, operating over a larger number of days than the normal season would
allow.
23.       The increasing demand for apples, potatoes, dairy products, fresh
fruits and vegetables in European and Arab countries can only be met if enough
packing houses and cold stage units are built in the production areas. The
experience of Turkish farmers, cooperatives and exporters in this field is
growing, and there is considerable demand for credit. These cold storage and
packing houses would either sell their service to growers or exporters at a
fixed price per ton or else they would grow or buy and export on their own



ANNEX 4
Page 9
account. Under the first arrangement, boxes, bags, labels, etc., with dis-
tinctive trademarks and names are generaly provided by the customer, reducing
the need for working capital and space for inventories.
24.       It is assumed that at least 7 integrated facilities (packing house
and cold storage) would be financed (Table 4). Farmers' cooperatives includ-
ing those in the country's less developed regions are especially interested
in obtaining subloans for these facilities.
25.       Olive Oil.  Olive production in Turkey is as follows:
Year                  1,000 Tons
1970                       681
1971                       326
1972                     1,019
1973                       332
The low figures in 1971/1973 are due to cyclical phenomenon which results in
low yield every two to three years. The best table oil is extracted from
olives by the pressing method, the resultant crude oil being refined and
canned. Additional amounts of oil can be recovered from the press cake by
the solvent extraction method, which produces non-edible oil for industrial
purposes and requires large capacities to be conmercially feasible. There is
substantial demand for sma'll press-extraction units in the olive producing
areas. The crude oil to be sold to larger central refineries for further pro-
cessing, and in some cases, press cake for solvent extraction of the remaining
oil. Olive oil has good acceptance in world markets and Turkey has been ex-
porting about 50% of its total production.
Turkeye- Exports of Olive Oil
1972         1973          1974
Tons                                       3,413       44,400       11,062
TL ('000s)                           37,435      634,953      209,694
Average TL per ton                   10,970       14,300       18,956
Average US$ per ton                     784        1,022        1,354
Source:         State Institute of Statistics.
26.       Refined olive oil commands a higher price (TL 28 to 30 per kg) than
can be attained on the export market (TL 19 per kg). Investment in olive oil
plants is actively promoted by DC-MVA among cooperatives of olive growers.
Provisions for four olive oil plants have been included under the project
(Table 5).



ANNEX 4
Page 10
27.       Slaughterhouses in Turkey are operated by the central government's
Meat and Fish Organization (MFO), municipalities, and by private sector firms.
MFO accounts for about 10% of the recorded slaughterings in the country and
sells dressed carcasses to the armed forces and other institutional consumers.
Currently, due to the shortage of meat for the domestic markets, exports are
prohibited (Annex 1). However, increased investments in livestock production
and fattening have the long term objectives of providing meat mainly for the
domestic market with possibly some export potential.
28.       Most existing slaughterhouses are old, unsanitary and operationally
inefficient and are in need of modernization or replacement. Few have chill
rooms and frozen storage, adequate facilities for animal dehiding and eviserat-
ing, provisions to handle meat throughout the process in a manner to assure
clean products and sufficient space. Some livestock producing areas (i.e.,
Amasya and Gasiantep) do not have slaughtering facilities. Large numbers of
livestock are produced in Eastern Turkey far from population centers. Trans-
port charges plus weight losses during shipment for live animals increase the
cost of meat significantly. Increasing the weight of the cattle through
fattening programs would result in higher yields and better price competitive-
ness (Annex 5).
29.       Provisions for a minimum of two slaughterhouses have been included
in the project in areas where livestock production and fattening programs are
being developed. Each plant would have a daily killing capacity of about 100
cattle and 700 sheep. Design would include on-the-rail dressing, sanitary
construction standards, refrigerated storage and ancillary facilities (Table
6).
30.       Feed Mills.  At present, there are 68 feed mills operating in the
country with more planned by Government to assure the availability of feeds
in all regions. In 1972, feed production was 258,000 tons and increased to
280,000 tons in 1973. Poultry feed represented about 53% of the total output
with the balance being produced for livestock feed. In the past, cattle feed
which has been high-priced compared to carcass yield and selling price, has
been a small volume item. One low cost cattle feed ingredient, wet sugar beet
pulp, has been obtained from sugar processing factories and fed directly as a
dietary energy source. Beet pulp occasionally is dried and then incorporated
into mixed feeds. By-products from agri-industries processing are utilized on
a limited basis depending primarily on seasonal availability. Mixed feeds
are blended and balanced to provide for more predictable rates of gain from
livestock and poultry. Feed mix ingredients, grains, oilseed press cake,
and other protein concentrates, minerals and vitamins are in part available
domestically with the balance being imported.
31.       Feed prices used in the model (Table 7) reflect the current price
of ingredients in Turkey. Anticipated price decreases in the world grain
market would reduce mixed feed costs making mixed feed more attractive to
livestock and poultry farmers. In the project, provisions have been made
for at least one 10 ton per hour capacity feed mill to be located in the
Amasya area near sugar beet processing plants and livestock fattening farms.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
32.       The financial rates of return for the seven representative models
and those from sensitivity tests are shown below:
Financial    Investment    Operating   Gross
Rate of          Costs         Costs     Revenue
Agroindustries Model            Return           + 10%         + 10%     - 10%
Tomatoe Paste                      18              16            3         -ve
Citrus Concentrate                 24              21            6           2
Grape Juice Concentrate            24              21           15          11
Cold Store & Packing House         16              12           13          10
Olive Oil                          26              23          -ve        -ve
Slaughterhouse                     20              17          -ve        -ve
Feed Mill                          27              24          -ve        -ve



AFPRAISAL OF                                                            p E
AN Af3ICJLStJRAL CREIT AND AGROINDUOST5ES PROGJCT
Yodel: Tnmto Po ste  eaut
A. Project Parmeietsr
Sypcosis:  The plaqt produces tomato paste  Pached in  o-s for both internsl snd exnorn  rhsrets.  Plet canacity is 20 tons/hour.
Season:    July to October (average 65 days)
Capctity:  20 tons of tomstoes per hour.  The otilititon sill be as follows:
Year 2:  65 dyay  X  hbors/day   520 hoors (1 shift)
Year 3:  65 days X 15 hours/dy - 975 hours (2  hifts)
Year 4 - 10: 65 days a 22 hours/dy - 1,430 hours (3 shifts)
Selling Prioc         Tarkey -  aortns of toato pasts                1972           1973           1974
To.s                                           016            T77;09         i76o
TL '000                                       32,694         116,669        143,065
TL/ton (FOB)                                   3,Z84           6,663        131,669
US$/Too (FOB)                                    72             479            840
Souroc state In-titote of Statistio- (SPO - Turhey)
Dc riog 1974 the iCcxerosmot sstablished sioimu  enport price of US$920 FOB
The price for the model in Tr 9732/too or US$695 FPO per ton.
aRw Materials:  I  order to a sure the ariability of t-toes ih the qusptity snd quality needed, the oosspny will hace itn                 -- conery end cc-x h-ns  f-ilili..o  It  ill
provide the seedlihgo to the farserm cader ountr-ot,-:min6g erly,  -o1sa  -nd lite caristien acoordiog tu the production program
Duriog pruceocing, 6 kg raw   cotoes are cnncentreted t   1 -kg of tuotto .nte.  Abhot 5% of the ran t-otones are  ot utilicod during prrevcit-.
Toatoes                  Pesto
Year 2                        ThT0WToo                  T773  tons
Year 3                        20,475 tone               3,250  tons
Year 4-10                     30,030 tlon               4,76"  tone
abor & cerhead  4h  persona per shift at a-erage groas nags of TLIO,'hur.  On year 2, the shift  -oke 10 ho-r  per day.  The pesDet  tstoff in cc               d -f 13 p-u
at no soersge gross salary uf TL 3,500 per   nthre.
Cootainere & Sapplies:  756 of production for eroort psoked in 5 co cans.  12.5% of pr-dmctioc for Turkey o-ked iv 5 kg coom   12.5% cf orud.cc'i-r for Tr-vy packed  c 1  g cons
Price/Unit             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4-10
5 kg cnon                          7 TL50 _730Toco its                        573730  u-ita      o4b700 u?its
1 k  cans                           TIL 2.1              219.9DO unite        412,300 coits      604,800 coits
6/5 kg Cardboard Boye.              TL 6.6                51,300 coits         96,217 onitn      141,117 coit.
24/1 kg Cardboard Bonas             TL 6.2                 9,163  oitns        17,180 coits       25,200 coits
Other cuPpliem  (lsbls eto)  re eantented at 5% of totsi celtm fur f crnlicer.
Utilities:
PriQe/Unit            Yfsr 2              Year 3             YeT   4-10
Power                               TL O97k0h            20W7, ckch           3        dU b k     72,O kw  h
nm   I                              TL 1.5/1             049,170 1          1,552,50C 1        2,335,330 1
Waetsr                              TL 40/s3              34,66o n3            65,000I3           95,340 m3
Maintenno-e & Repair:
% Fined O-cestonot
Year 2                   3.0
Year 3                   4.0
Year 4-10                5.0
Insurnce: 0.751 cf Ciced iccest-snt
Oi-ilnoeo.o:  106 of total produotioa cos-t
SellinRg Kpeose.: 26 of total sales
Lccg tIco  Icoc:   ; ' f, toti incestInt inolcdiog initisi wcrkiig capital (-ce-sory fcr 5tart-cp nod operatino  in Yer 2).  14.375%  of' itvrco-  por  -0a:  11 ceony  renaycey
Period i_cludiog 2 yers- uf Barce
Se..oni Crediu: The differetce no corer 1/3 of opernting cost- in each yar.  14.375% interest oer year.  Aerage r-psyIent pericd 6  co-ths
D.previati-o  For TYx Purpuo.s nod Resid-al VO1us (TL '000)
Total          Years           Per Year          Yf-r 10 Sesidu-1
Cicil Works                           9733o                            217 4   577
Pr ocesing Fscilhties                14,937           15               999                  5,996
Vehicies                                400            5                ao                     So
Engineeriog & Contingencies           4,160           15               277                  1 667
Yotal                            30371,3735
Ta-s:  435 of tamble inooe (operatIng inco-e less interest on 1TL 5nd season1 credit and less depreciatio).  The Gocer-meot re-ogni-en o ded.c-ic- cf 305 of the fixed incest-ent
from the t-su.ble in-ope for this project,



ANNEX 4
Table I
APPRAISAL OF                              Page   2
AN AGRICULTURkL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRISS PROJECT
TURKUT
Model: Tomsto Paste Plant
B.
(TL 1000)
Year 1
Local        Foreign        Total
Land & Site Preparation                500            -             500
Civil Works
Buildings & Constructions            4,500            100         4,600
Utilities                              800            900         1,700
Access Roads                           200             _            200
Processing Facilities
Machinery & Equipment                  -          13,587         13,587
Auxiliary Installations                800            400         1,200
Waste Handling                         200             -            200
Vehicles                               250            150           400
Subtotal                        7,250        15,137         22,387
Engineering Services (8%)              524         1,223          1,747
Subtotal                        7,774        16,360         24,134
Physical Contingency (10%)             777          1,636         2,413
Total Fixed Investment          8,551        17,996         26,547
Initial Working Capital              3,077            543         3,620
Total Investment               11,628         18,539        30,167



APPRAISA4L OF'
AN AGPCULIURAI CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKU
Model: Tomato Paste Plant
C. Projeeted Inmae Statement
sB h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ............................... .............................. Ye r
2            3          45                       6       7               8                     10 i
Tato Past. Sales                            5       3            6W         468                                 4643r       46,380      4
Total                                                          IS                                                            30       W. 36
Operating bpenss
Rew  eterials                            6,552      12,285      18,480      18,480      18,480      18,480      18,480      18,480      18,480
Labor                                      260         416         624         624         624         624         624         624         624
Overheid                                   420         420         420         420         420         420         420         )20         420
Onten.rs & S ,cli.g                     3,053       5,730       8,396       8,396       8,396       8,396       8,396       8,396       8,396
lities                                   1,598       3,000       4,404       4,404       4,404       4,404       4,404       4,404       4,404
haintename & Repair                        781       1,042       1,302       1,302       1,302       1,302       1,302       1,302       1,302
Tnaursnce                                  195         195         195         195         195         195         195         195         195
x.scellamsous                            1,286       2,309       3,382       3,382       3,382       3,382       3,382       3,382       3,382
Saing 1e_*                                 337         632         928         928         928         928         928         928         928
interest on Seonal Credit                  -           20         29           425         425         05          425         425         425
Total                                            2623 3,   3S5      385
grating inom                                   2.383      5.386        7.824      7M82U       7.824                                7,824 7,824  7,824
Inom  Taes                                       -                 -           287       1,913       2,076       2,239       2,403       2,565
Tit, Ox)eratirnz Incomle                                    5.Sl 5 .8                                                                 5,259t2
D.  Prolected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 18%
Sensitivity Test:
Tnveataent Coats  +10%     16%
Operating  Coats  +10%:   3%
Gross Revenue      -10%: Negative
E. Projected Cash Flow Statement
Inflow                              .....Ye..r.. .............            4,         Year.
Cotrbtin1                     2686     iiL             4-                                                            :        i
Gross Rtwanue                                         6o531*62                             46 ,               38 4, 30 46384,3O ;
Ors Contribution            9,793        1.132         195         -                       - _         _           _
Long-Term Credit           18,5d3        2,534                                                                                  -
Seaonal Credit                -            -         2.887         K1I       55913            3      .911        5.911       5.913       59
Total                    28376        20.531      34T4        552,293           52,293              7 ,93     3529 ?3     52,293      52,293
Outflow
Operating Costs                -        14s482      26,236       38,556      38,556      38,556      38,556      38,556      38,556      38,556
Invetn nts                 26,547        3,620         -           -           -           400          -           -           -           -
Taxes                          -           _      -                -            287      1,913        2,076       2,239       2,403       2,565
ST0aonal Credit Rspm_nt       -            -         2,887       5,913       5,913       5,913       5,913       5,913        5,913       5,913
Dabt Services Interest      1,829        2,429       2,941       2,561       2,181       1,803       1,423       1,043          663         285
Prinipal                                2  .64o     2.640    2 640          2.          2.640        2640    2__            2.64 _
Total                   n7&          -Tr,53       34,74       4; 49,670               51,22       50,6M2      50,31       5,7         49,956
Net TnflowtOut                    _ -          -2.623                             2.716      1.06B        1.1.902                L.18         2.37
ation                              1,                                             1            1,49       1,43         1,493
Incremental CaSh now   (26.547)        2,363       5,3Ub       7,824       7,537       5,511       9,748       5,585      3421         5,259



APPRAISAL OF                                                                      page 1
page 1
AN AGRICULURAJ, CREDIT AND AGROIDISTRIES PROJECT
TURKElY
Model: Citrus Prozon Concentrate Plant
A. Project Parameters
Synopsis:   Plant will produce fro-en citrus juice of various fruits snd concentrations.  For the model, only orange Juice of 650 B  nd the corresponding essential oil and fodder
are considered. The capacity is estimated at 10ton/hour.
Season:     December to July (150 days average)
Capacity:   10 tons per hour of fresh oranges
Year 2: 150 days x 8 bours (1 sbift) s 1,200 hours
Year 3: 150 days x 15 bours (2 shifts). 2,250 hours
Year 4 to 10:  150 days o 22 hours (3 shifts). 3,300 hours
Yield:      8% orange juice at 650    = 80 kg per too of orages
8% essential oil - 0.8 kg per ton of oranges
40% fodder 5 400 k,, per ton of os-uages
Raw Materials: TL 0.7 per kg, delivered at the plant: 5% waste faotor
Tons
AYear 2                      
year 3                  23,625
Year 4 to  10            34.650
Selling Price       Year 2               Year 3      Year 4 to 10
Essential Oil             T. 10220/tn          960 t,ons             ,to  tons    2,640 tons
Fodder                    TL. 56/kg              9.6 tons              18 tons        26.4 tons
TL. 900/ton      4,800 tons             9,000 tocs   11,880 tons
Selling Price:   Orange frozen concentrate:  TL 10,220 per ton
Essential Oil: IL 56 per kg
Citrus Fodder: TL 900 per ton
Eoport Rebate: 20% for frozen concentrate and essential oil
Labor:      25 persons rer shift at average wage of TL 10 per hour
10 persons for oecnenst staff at average IL 3,500 per month gross calary.
Containers & Supplies:  Orange juice packed in  210 1.  drums lined with polyethelene bag, at TL 210 per drum
Escential oil pacued in   20 1.  cans at TL 17.5 per can
Citrus Fodder pac'-ed in 50 kg paper bags at TL 5.5 per bag
Year 2              Year 3       Year 4 to 10
21O  L. drums                                 3,500 Units          6,536 Units   9,600 Units
20 ] cnn-                                      480 Units            900 Units   1.320 Units
50 bgn. pa;t  bagu                           96,000 Units        180,000 Units 264,000 Units
Other supplies (labels, plastic bags, etc.) at 106 of total value of cont iners
UItilitles
Price              Year 2               Year 3       Year 4 to Jo
Power         T T9kh               MT,0O kwh            75o  kwh  l,          O kwh
Fuel          TL 1.5/L             384,960 is.          682,425 1s.   1,058,640 Is.
Water Ti   4.0/m3                  9,600 m3              18.000 m3        26,400 =3
Maintenano. & Repair
Year 2: 3% fined investment
Year 3:  45 fined investment
Year 4 to 10:  5  fried investment
Insurance:  .756 fixed investment
Miscellneous:   10t of total production costs
Selling Expenses:  2% of total costs
Long tem Loan: 70% of total inve-t-ent including initial working ca.ital (necessary for start-up end operation in Yenr 2).  14.375%    interest per yeav, 10 year" repayment
crio' oncluding 2 years of grace.
Seasonal Credit:  The difference to cover 1/6 of operating costs in each year. 6 months average repayment ter.  14.375% interest per year.
eoreciation:  For Tax Purposes and Residual Value
Year 10
Total        Years      Per Year      Residual
Civil Works                          3          -17'-         f3,736
Processing Facilities             16,756           15       1,117          6,703
Vehicles                             400            5          80             80
Engineering & Physical Coot.       4,254           15         284          1 698
Total                      1t,659    1227
Toxes:  43% of taxable income ( operating income les.  interest on LTL and seasonal credit  and less depreciation.  Governent recognizes 35% deducticn of ficed investment
from taxable income for this type of project.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Model: Citrus Frozen Concentrate Plant
B. Projected Investment Costs
(TL' 000)
Year 1
Loocal       Foreign         Tota
Land & Site Preparation                      250            -             250
Civil Works
Buildings & Constructions                  3,100           650          3,750
Utilities                                    652           736           ,388
Access Roads                                 200            -             200
Subtotal                              4,202        1,386           5,588
Processing Facilities                        900        15,856         16,756
Vehicles                                     2 9           150            400
Subtotal                              5,352       17,392          22,744
Engineering Services                         600         1,200          1,800
Subtotal                              5,952       18,592          24,544
Physical Contingency                       5I7           1.877          2,454
Total Fixed Investment                     6,529        20,469         26,998
Initial Working Capital                    2.066           365          2,431
Total Investment                      8,595        20,834         29,429



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRTCULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROTINDUSTRIES PROJECT                             Ta3
llJRKEY
Model: Citrus FroeiL Concentrate Plant
C.    Projected Ineae Statement
hkoe. R.,emse                                                                              Year.
Qroag Pwu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................   ........... .Y a   ............................. .. . .. .. . .. .. .
9,811                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 810
ConcenrSrte                                                         2 1*   2g;   7*      5;           *X6
Essential oil                                     538      1,008    1,478      1,478    1,478        1,478       1,478      1,478       1,478
Citrta Fodder                                   4,320      8,100    11,880    11,880   11,880       11, 880    11,880      11,880      11,880
fport Rebate                                    200        3.88      5fiS       ,692    5.S2         5692        5.6 62      569        562
Total    e                                              3 5 46,031   .L66031                                46                        5692
Operating &Wenaea
Raw material                                    8,820    16j538    24. 256    24,255    24,255      24,255      24,255      24,2$5     24,255
Direct Labor                                      375        600       900       900       900         900         900        960         900
Overbead                                          420        420       420       420       420         420         420        42D         420
&ipplles & Containers                           1,399      2,619     3,840     3,840     3,840       38640       3,860      3,860       3,860
Utilities                                         978      1,776    2,692      2,692     2,692       2,692       2,692      2,692       2,692
Maintenace & Repair                                802     1,070    1,337      1,337    1,337        1,337       1,337      1,337       1,337
insurance                                         201        201       201       201       201         201         201        201         201
mis0e*        Reou i                            1,300      2,322     3,365     3,365    3,365        3,365       3,365       3,365      3,365
Selling bpenae                                    293        550       807       807       807         807         807        807         807
Interest on Sasonal Credit                                   1              278       278              228        21R                    27&
Total                                         Zi ;                                               38095       38  _77                3U 23 
Operating Inmcme                                       2,161      5,151    7,936     7,936     7,936       7,936       7,936      7i936       7,936
noqme Taes                                         -         -         -         195    1,943        2,103       2,262      2,421       2,580
Net Ooerating Income                                    i5         7,936    7,741     5,993       5,833       5,676       5,515      5,356
D. Projected Financial Rate of Retarn
Financial Rate of Return: 24%
,ensitivity Test:
estnen 0Costs + 10% : 21%
Operating Costs + 10%: 6%
Gross Revenue - 10%      2%
E. PrnDJeetv CaaR Flow Statement
Inlow,                                          ..................................... Year .............................................
1      2         3         4         5         6           7          8           9           10
Grosa Reveue                                    16,769    31,385   4603       66,031    66,031      46,031     4,31        46,031      46,031
Long era  Conreibti                     9  95       962       293      -         -         -___'
Owners Contribution                    1,8        1,701-
LgTotan Credi                                   1,                           ___2_   ___
Seao1nal Credit                           -        -           8    32                     872       3 872       3 87       182         1  2
Totel                   _      19,412 ~~~~~~~~~~~3,596    4993   dii3   49,903    4,0                                 993
Outflow
Operating Costs                        2         16,588    26,234    38,095    38,0`95   38,095     38,095      38,095      38,95      38,095
Investments                            26,998    2,631       -         -         ----
Taxes                         ~~        ~     ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-  -  -  -  195    1,943  2,103      2,262       2,421       2,580
Seasonal Credit Repekvent                 -         -      1,918     3,872     3,872     3,872       3,872       3,872      3,7         382
Lebt Servicet Interest                  1,860     2,393    2,868     2,498    2,128    1758          1,387      1,017         647         277
Total                                                                     4 6 , 6664                                     .IL          3
Net Inflow (Outflow)                       ____ 2               .01 7                       1SU2 2                                292       2,511
Lepreciation                              -       1,659    1,659     1,659     1,659    1,659        1,659       1,659      1,659       1,659
Ineremntal Cash Flow              (6.998)   2,161      5,151     7,936     7,741     5,593       5,833       5,674      5,515       5,356



APWRAISAL OF
Al AORICUILTUAL CREIIT AND AGROWIIDSTIEPS PROTECT                                                            Ig.
Model:  Gram  Juice Corcentrate PlAnt
A.  Project Pmters
Synopsis:   The plant produces grape juice concentrated to 720 Brix, for export only. With slight  odifications at the beginning of the process (juice extraction)
other fruits (peabes, apples, cherries, etc.) can be processed in the earn plant.  Pulp is a by-product nd will be sold as nimal fodder in dried focs.
Tpcity is 15 ton/hour.
Season:     For grapes, from August to Novmber (average 90 days)
Capacity:   15 tons per hour of grapes.  7he utilization is "  follows:
Year 2 . 8 hours/day m 90 days - 720 hours (I shift)
tfear 3 15 hoors/day m 90 days - 1,350 hours (2 shifts)
Year 4 to 10 . 22 hours/day x 90 days * 1,980 hours (3 shifts)
Selling Price & Erport Rebate:
Price/Ton           Year 2                         Yer 3                Year 4-10
Grape Concentrate                              TL9,20              2,160 tons                     4,050 tons           5,940 tons
Grape Pulp                                     TL   900            2,160 tons                     4,050 tons           5,940 tons
Export Rebate is 30% for exports of more than U.S. $1 million, but there are indications that government policy is to reduce it.  For this remon, only 20% of export
sales have been considered.
Raw Materiala: Yield: I ton of graces produces 200 kgs. of concentrate at 72 Brimx nd 200 kgs. of dried pulp.
Price: For grapes, TL 1.00/kg.
IObO tit
Year 2              N
Year 3              20,250 tons
Year 4-10           29,700 tons
Labor b Overhead:   70 persons per shift at average grsswage of TL 10/hour.
For year 2. ten hours per day ar considered.
Permanent taff of 15 persons at average gross salary of TL 3,500 per month.
Containers & Supplies, Grape concentrate to be packed in 5 gallon cns.
Pulp to be pecked in paper bags of 50 kg. capacity.
Uni t s
Price/Unit          Year 2                         Year 3               Year 4-10
5 gallon cans                                T' 17.        5      Th,T                                                2h3,000
50 kg. paper bags                              TL  5.5              44,500                          83,500             122,500
Other nupplics (lebeln, wooden bomes, etc.) are estimted at 10% of the total costs of continers.
utilities,
Price/Unit          Year 2                                              Year 4-10
IL u e2ro      7    3ET= 0 kwh                     iwn,C'rCito2       ;            kh
Fuel                                           TL 1.5/lt.          464,400 Its                       870,750 lts       1,277,100 lts
Water                                          TL 4 .0/m3           21,600 m3                         40,500 M3            59,400 m3
Ininten-oce & Repair:
Fined I stce.t
ear                                      30
Year 3                                   4.o
Year 4-10                                5.0
Insurance: 0.75% of tixed investnent
toan >,,, 70% of total investment, including initial working capital (the necessary for start-up and operation during year 2.)
r 14.375% interest per year.  10 years repyment period, including 2 years of grce.
Seasonal Credit:  The difference to cover 2 months of operating costs in each yer.. - Average repayment period 6 months.  Interest rate 14,375% per yer.
Taxes,      43% of taxable income (operating incme less interest on LTL and seasonal coedit and less depreciation).  The Gvernment recognizes the deduction of 30%
of the fixed investment from the taxable income for this type of project.
Depreciation   For Tam Purposes and Residual Value.
Year 10
Total               Years                           Per Year            Residual
Civil Works                                    15,525              Yea                                518               10,8u3
Processing Facilities                         24,000                 15                             1,600                9,600
vehicles                                          800                  5                              l60                  160
Eng. & Contingencies                            7 610                15                               5047
Total                                      4,*5



ANNEX 4
Table  3
APPRAISAL OF                           Page   2
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Model: Grape Juice Concentrate
B. Projected Investment Costs
(TL'OOO)
_Yar 1
Local        Forein         Totl
Land & Site Prepamtion                       200           -              200
Civil Works
Buildings & constructions                  9,962         2,088         12,050
Utilities                                  1,250         2,000          3,250
Roads                                        225           _              225
Subtotal                            11,637          4,088        15,72e
Processing Facilities                      8,000        16,000         24,000
Vehicles (3)                                 200           600            800
Subtotal                            19,837         20,688        40,525
Engineering Services (8%)                  1,620         1.622          3.242
Subtotal                            21,457         22,310        43,767
Physical Contingency (10%)                 2,138          2.230        4.368
Total Fixed Investment                 23,595        24,540         48,135
Working Capital (Initial)                  2,816           497
Total Investment                       26.411        25.037         51,448



APPRAISAL OF                                                  Pop 3
AN AGRICULTURAL CRE:IT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Mqdel: 6rape Juice ConcentrPte
C. Project F;4w    St tent
ros FS u                                        ................................Y.  ............................... Ye.
2          3           4          5 6~                   , 78 9 1 0
Concentrated Juice3i7 ;2 S;                               t      M       M*                                 3 im        34il
palp                                    1,914       3,6sS      5,346      5,346       5,3b6    5,346         5,346       5,31,6     5,346
lbort fibate                            3.3         7.43      10.9       10.97       10.977      10.977     10 977      10977       10 977
Total                               25,294     48,55                   742m       n289        R,209       710        71209            9
OperatinE speases
h, Ybtrlalea                           10,800      20,250     29,700     29,700      29,700      29,700     29,700      29,700      29,700
TAbor                                     630       1,008      1,512      1,512       1,512       1,512      1,522       1,512       1,512
Overhead                                  630         630        630        63y         630         630         630        630         630
9p3tle  & Cont&oarsn                    2,253       4,221      6,190      6,190       6,190       6,190      6,19o       6,190       6,190
uteti..                                 1,561       2,926      4,292      4,292       4,292       4,292      4,292       4,292       4,292
Naintenanoa & Repair                    1,h38       1,91?      2,397      2,397       2,397       2,397      2,397       2,397       2,397
Insurance                                 359         359        359        359         359         359        359         359         359
NAcellanouc                             1,768       3,131      4,508      4,508       4,508       4,508      4,508       4,508       4,508
Sel3ing Ezpenaa                           h38         821      1,203      1,203       1,203       1,203      1,203       1,203       1,203
Interast on Sasonal Credit                -           184        370        370         17D         370        370         170         370
Total                              In,         3__ 5I                -1.6        51,         51,         5116       51,161      5i.i61
Operating Inom                                 5,417     13,104      20kO48     20,048      20;C48      20.043     20,048      20,048      20.048
Iacon  Taxes                           ___            _         1,616      5.a23       6.1C        6.0        6.658       6,96        7215
Net Operating Income               5         1           4           1          1             1                    1
-J). rr0oiected i'lnancnal rBt5 ofrFeturn
Financial Rate of Return: 24%
Sensitivity Test
Investment costs + 105: 21%
Operating Costs + 10%:  15%
Gross Revenue - 105:    11%
E  Projectedn E   Stateent
12,f _W    p           R4                      s            6          7           8          9          lo
Gross lbyona                  -        25,894      48,551     71,209      71,209      71,209     71,209      71,209      71,209     71,209
Omers Contribution          17,757        994         -          --                                             -           -          -
Iong-Te n.rwMt              33,695      2,319         -
3esoa    Cr dt           _           -         2.56       5.152       5.152       5.152       5.152      5152       3,          515
Seasonal &edi                 -                                                                               &__~ .5                -a
ta27l                        _7                                         6          76,361 76t             76.361      76,361
Outflov
COprating Coae,               -        19,877      35,447     51,161      51,161      51,161     51,161      51,161      51,161     51,161
Inveetants                  48,135      3,313         -          -           -           800        -           -           -           -
Tes                           -           -           -        1,616       5,823       6,101      6,380       6,658       6,936      7,215
Seaxon1a Credit Sepaent      -            -         2,564      5 152       5,152       5,152      5,152       5,152       5,152      5,152
Debt Srvicat Interest        3,317      4,203       5,016      4,368       3,721       3,07k      2,426       1,780       1,132        485
Prince4h - -                 -        4.2                                                                   4.502       4.5Do
Total                    -r45        M03         4730" 6-25                                                              63
Net Inflow (Outflow)                       1           3. gm      29;                     Lsm        6 n=                    7ja         7L.8
Dcprec5. tlon                  _. 26S 7b                                                        t8 25 752752  .b
lInorent4a Cah Fli             Xm                13.        13          L14,225     134        13,66a      ly 0        1=3, 12    12,8333



AYPR!ISAL OF
AN AGRICULT4RAL CREDIT ANID ACROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                                                          Page 
CEdS:  0c   Storage & Packing house
A. ProJet  leeIt4a
pi   Plant intended to sell services or packing and cold storage facilities for fruits, vsgets*tes end dairy products.  The  cquisition of fresh fruits  nd vegetables
.r tKeisubsequent sale of pac'ed and cold stored products by the cuspay would increase the proflit  ility of the project.
Capacity:  The cold storage rooms have a total caacity of 4,500 tons.  The packing house has a capacity of 10 tons per hour for apples.  The utilisation of the installed
capacity is as follos:
Charge
Year 2         Year 3          Year 4-10       -/-
Packing of apples           3,600 tons     5,400 tons      6,480 tons       65o
Storage of apples           2,700 tons     2,850 tons      4,500 tons        800
Storage of other products  2,250 tons      2,700 tons      3,380 tons        Boo
Precooling of fruits        1,000 tons     1,200 tons      1,500 tons        100
Season:    Packing: October to early Decesber for fresh apples (45 days average)
March to April for cold stored apples (45 days average)
The season can be extended by packing other fruits and vegetables. (pears, tomatoes, peaches, etc.)
Labor:     The average gross wage for direct labor seasonal (labor is TL 50/day.)
YEAR 2: 100 persons per 100 days * TL 500,000
YEAR 2, 150 persons per 100 days . TL 750,000
YEAR 3: 180 persons per 100 days . TL 900,000
The permanent staff consists of 25 osrsons, at an average gross salary of TL 3,500 per month.
Utilities:
Unit Price                  Year 2         Year 3          Year 4 to 10
Power          TL.09/Kwh                   437,00  Kwh    552,00  Kwh   729005i
Water & Other                              10 Power        10% Power      106 Power
Cost           Cost            Cost
Maontenance & RepVr                           Year 2          Year 3          Year 4 to 10
3or rixed Investment          29 7o
Suoplies, Cardboard boxes, plastic bags, labels. etc. to be supplied by custoer.
Insurance, 08t of fixed investment, exsluding land.
Miscellaneous 0I of total operating costs, excluding selling expenses and interest on seasonal credit.
Selling Expenses: 2% of total sales
Long Terms Loan:  706 o  total investment, including initial working capital, 14,375 interest nf year.  10 years tenm, including 2 years gr-e.
Initial Working Capital:   The necessary for start-up and first operating year (Year 2)
Seasonal Credit:   The differenoe to cover 1 month operating costs. Average repayment period 6 months, at 14.375% per year.
Depreciation:   For tax purposes and residual value
Year 10
Fotal        Years           Per Year       Residual
Civil Works          13,325          30               444         9,329
Proc. Facilities      9,550          15               637         3,817
Vehicles                 890          5               178           178
Eag. & Contingencies  4 488          15               299         1,797
Total           2 5  13                                     15121
Taxes:     43% of taxable income (operating income less interest on LLand seasonal credit nd less depreciation).  30% of fixed investment can ',e deducted from
taxable income for this type of project.



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                           Table 4
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TJRKEY
Model: Cold Storage & Packing House
B. Projected Investment Costs
(TL'OOO)
Year 1
Local       Foreign       Total
Land & Site Preparation                   200           -            200
Civil Works
Buildings & Constructions               9,500         2,000       l1,500
Installations                             800           800        1,600
Roads                                     925           -            225
Subtotal                         10,725          2,800      13,525
Proceasing Facilities
Machinery & equipment packing-house       -           5,056        5,056
Machinery & equipment cold storage      1500          2,994        4,494
Subtotal                          1,500          8,050       9,550
Vehicles                                   70           820          890
Subtotal                         12,295         11,670      23,965
Engineering Services (8%)                 950           951        1,901
Subtotal                         13,245         12,621      25,866
Physical Contingency (10%)              1,325         1,262        2,587
Total Fixed Investment                 14,570        13,883       28,453
Initial Working Capital                  821             43       -84
Total Investment                       14,811        13,926      28,737



APPRISL OF
AN AGRICUIAJR  CREDIT ANO.AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                                P9ag  3
Model: Cold Storage & Packing House
c   Pjected Inee Statement
are".                                          ..e....  . ..    ...... Yeer                                                            .
.......a.... ~~~~~~~~~~  6  __................                             9          1
P1okdo  of apples                                    3                        C,22        4,212                   r 3 ,    b   ,212       6,212
Storage of apples                        2,160       2,280       3,6(0        3,600       3,600       3,600       3,60o       3,600       3,600
Storage of other prodmcte                1,800       2,160       2,700        2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700
Preooling                                             V. 120                          150  3SQ0                                               0
Total                                                                                                                         -5
soK                    6,@0        ,070      ~~~~~~~~~            ~ ~~~10,66  12.-  10,66  10,*2  lo,66      062        1,
Operating ZfpeBum
Lroot labor                                500         750         900          900         90D         900          900         900         900
Oerhead                                  l,0s6       1,044       1,044        1,044       1,044       1,046       1,046        1,044       1,064
Utilities                                  b37         552         729          729         729         729         729          729         729
ointenanoe & hkpadr                       769        8o          850          850         850         850          850         850         850
ILsuaree                                   230         230         230          230         230         230         230          230         230
Nisoel'aneous                              298         338         375          375         375          375         375         375         375
S0flifl SWOM3                              128         161         213          213         213         213         213          213         213
Inb reat anSeasoma Credit                  -             3           6            6           6           6           6            6           6
Total                                  Mg                     r,-3_  ;                __347        4     1;  6,34,367                  4,3h7
Cper&ting  looms                              2,996       4,192       6,315        6,315       6,315       6,315       6,315       6,315        6,315
tesi Taans                                 -           -                       -           -            2         1616        128         1.926
Net ODerating Income                                                                                                                    H 9 6,557 l,i9
D. ProJected Financial-Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 16%
Sensitivity  est
Investment Cos + 10% = 1.2%
Operating Costs + 10% = 13%
Gross Bevenue - 10% = 1ol
E. ProJected Cash Flow Statenent
( TL'oO)
90verD~~~~~..           . .. .  ..... .... .... .... .... ....  .... ..... Year  ..  *.....   ,,    ,,,,................ ... ...
WI*                                 T     10,662      TO.~~~~~~~~~10662  310,662  1-0,662
Osnera Gontributinc        106~             85       1,123          -----
n-Ter, Credit              19,917   1       9S         - _                      -            -           - _
Sena  Crdit                3                                          8 4                                 7            8       __          __
Operating zen8.5 -                       34606       3,878        4,347       4,347         367        637         4.347       4,347        ,37
Invetments                  28,653         286         -            -                                                                      4,8347--  
Tatsesl  -mdit lleptV_rt                   -            39           78         -78           78       1,23778     1,67186     1,728       1,92,63
DetSeasonal Ck tert saet      --39                                   78           78          78          78          78          78          78
Dsbt Service, lheretst       1,961       2*379       2,801        2,640       2,078        1,717       1,356         994         733         272
Totall                                                         9,37         417          Uh        =9           924         9,0         9,137
Net Inflow (Outflov)                           _         ___ ,  ,                                          _2_         i . u
Depreciatim                                                                                                                                   60_4.
Incremnta  Cash flow   (213.45i5)     2,9~4       4,192        6.313       6. 15       5A25         5.078       46.62       6J87        ii-j83



APPRAISAL OF                                                                          hpg  1
AN AGRICULIVRAL CRELI r AND AGRO0LDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURXE
Model: 01ve Oil Plant
A.  Project Paraetera
Synopsis:   The plant produces crude oil only, with a capacity of 2 ton/bour.  No facilities for refining are included.
Seasor.     Novenber through February (90 days)
Year 2: 90 x 8 - 720 hours (1 shift)
Year 3: 90 x 22 - 1,980 hours (3 shifts)
Capacity:
Yield:      2 tons of olives per hour
20-  grade A oil - 200 kgs. per too of olives
85  gradc B cil = 80 k,s per t-i of vliven
70% cake . 700 kgs. per ton of olives
2% waste (water, etc.) . 20 kgs. per ton of olives
Raw Material Cost:  TL 3,750 per ton of olives delivered at the plant.  3% wate is considered.
Selling Price:   Crude oils and oake to be sold to a central refinery at the following average prices.
Grade A oil: TL 20 per kg
Trade B oil: TL 6 per kg
Cake: TL 400 per ton
Labor:  12 persons per shift at average gross wage of TL 10 per hour
Permanent staff at average gross salary of TL 3,500 per month (4 persons)
Supplies:   Field bags to be replaced every 4 seasons.  Price TL 20 per bag
Press bags to be replaced every 3 seasons. Price TL 100 per bag
iO0% of replacement value of bags for other supplies.
Utilities:
Unit Cost        Year 2        Year 3 to 10
Power                                       M3r8PEW           8671 kwh  T7,t00 9wh
Fuel                                         TL 1.8/lt        15,235 lIs      41,897 lts
Water                                        TL 4/m3           1,080 m3        2,970 m3
Repair & Maintenance:  Year 2: 5Y of fixed investment, excluding land
Year 3 to 10: 6% of fixed investeent, excluding land
Insuraice: .75% of fixed investment, excluding land
MiscelLaneous:   7% of production costs
Soiling Expenses:   2% of total salev
Lo-g Tern   70% of total investment, including initial working capital (the necessary for start-up and operation in year 2)
Than:     14.375% interest per year.  10 years, including 2 years grce.
Seasonal Credit:    The difference to cover 1/3 of operating expenses in each year.
Average 3 months, 14,375% interest per year
Depreiatiton:
For TY: Purposes and Residual "alue          Total            Years          Per Year       Yar 10 Residual
Civil Works                                  9108               30              30                64
Processing Facilities                        810                10              81                 81
Vehicles                                     100                 5              20                 20
Engineering & physical Cont,                 343                 10             34                  37
Total                                  97Th!                               I57
Taes:       43% of operating income less interest on LL and seasonal credit and less depreciation.



ANNEX  4
Table -5
Page   2
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TUR ffl
Model: Olive Oil Plant
B.  Projected Investment Costs
iTL' OO)
Year 1
Local        Foreign         Total
Land & Site Preparation                        3                             3
Civil Works
Buildings & Constructions                    600            100            700
Utilities                                    100            100            200
Access Roads                                  10             -              10
Subtotal                                713            200           913
Processing Facilities                        459            351            810
Vehicles                                      63             37            100
Subtotal                              1,235            588         1,823
Engineering Services                          48             98            146
Subtotal                              1,283            686         1,969
Physical Contingency                         133             64            197
Total Fixed Investment                1,1416           750          2,166
Initial Working Capital                    1,935            242          2,277
Total Investment                      3.351          1,092         4.443



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULtlRAI CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PRWECT                                     be 5
Page 3
Nodel: Olive Oil Plant
C.    ProJected Income Statent
(TL'OOO)
Gums  _                                                                    ....................................... Yr....................................ee .
Grae A 011                                        :z'                                    W. 15,.                    8                      10
Grade B Oil                                        690      1,902     1,902      1,902     1,902       1,902       1,902       1,902       1,902
Total
ow,erting  ~e
Rin  AterialA                                    5,562     15,296    15,296    15,296    15,296       15,296      15,296      15,296      15,296
Direct   or                                        108        259       259        259       259         259         259         259         259
Oerhead                                            168        168       168        168       168         168         168         168         168
Utilities                                          110        301       30         301       30          30          30          301 
cotaizm r&Seppliss                                  15         39        39         39        39          39          39          39          39
Jeanteace & bj,ir                                  108        130       130        130       130         130         130         130         130
insurance                                           16         16        16         16        16          16          16          16          16
Ixceflanecas                                       426      1,135     1,135      1,135    1,135        1,135       1,135       1,135       1,135
Sell.mg _aas"                                      135         377      377        377       377         377         377         377         377
Imteat on Sesona  Cadt.                      _                                     130       130         13D10       13D         130         13-0
17,851   17,851       17,851      17,851      17,851      17.851
operating mwooe                                          115      11000     1,000     1,000    1,00D        1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
lwom  Tes                                           -         172       197       221       247         269         293          317         341
Net Operatil g Income                                                                   ni    1     73         7M            8          -35
D. Projected Financial Rate of Returti
Financial Rate of Retum         26%
Sensitivity Test
Inveent Costs + 10%:  23%
Operating Coats + 10%: Negative
Gross Revenue - 10%: Negative
E. Projected Cash Flov Statement
T1' 000)
lnafo                                                                     ............................  ....................................
.......a......  3.k   __Wk_        6                    __8__5_        j           10
Gross e1u  -ne                                   6,763     18,853    18,851    18,       18,851      18,W 1                  18            8,8
Omrs Contribution                        799        9
Long-Teax Credit                       1,516     1,594        -         -         -         _           _           _            _           _
Seasonal Credit                           _       _         3                   3,630 3,0                          30          3.630       3 6
Total 2,315 Hli;i sli 5;litli~~~~~~.1               22,481    22,4 81               22,481  22,48.630
Outflow
opzating  nEmseg                         -       6,648     17,851    17,851    17,851    17,851      17,851      17,851       17,851      17,851
bsvestaa.s                             2,166     2,277        .         -         -         100          -           -           _           _
Taes                                     -         -          172       197       221       247         269         293          317        31.1
Seasonal Credit Sepajunt                 -         -        3,630     3,630     3,630     3,630       3,630        3,630       3,630       3.630
D.bt Service, lstereht                   149       322        434       378        322      266         210         154           98         .42
Principal                   -         -                      a8      388       38          388         l388                     8
Total                                23        922147    2r75    2           S2TI1     22 2 1      2.12 22138 2 22316      2228        22,25 2
Net Inflow (Outflow)                                                 6         ,7        69        (1)       *3           165         197         229
Depreciation                              -        165        165        165      165        165         165         165         165         165
limrineta  COmb Fow                 (2,166)      115        828       803       779       653         731         707         683         659



APISAL OF
ADXUL0PAL CREDI?7 Al ASJD2Th1U=  2         0T                                                                 Pe 1
tilS   Slao*terhnue
A. Prjct Pairwtrs
Synopsis  Annual 250, 8 hoIr shitts with 2nd shift for 6 sitht, 10  had/O hour shift.
Capacity:   Per 8 hour etft
Yftr 2                 Year 3
100 heed beef                 22-   5 ".             5M       ;
700 head  tton -             157,500 a                236 250 *.
Live Weight Cost:
Beef                          250x                 - TLT .5/4 * L3,626 ipr head
Mitton                         4O kg xTLlS5/k6   - 2L  600  per head
Dreesed-out Value:
Beef                          53%  132 kg x  TI 28./kg * TL 3 765/narcass
xutton                        50    2 0 kg x   E le ./ -g C-tL 645; carcas
By-product Value:                                    j,   .............
Beef                  Ititot
Hide
Edible by-products             290                      25
Inedible by-products            27                       5
Edible fat                      24
Total
Labor:
Plant           55x TL70/day x 2,00o  single shirt plus 1,000 second shift hns. - Tll 550 000
Adoinistratlnn   5'C20/daY x 2,000  inegle shift plus 1,0O  seond shift hs, . Tl,004o00
)4negement       3xTL200,000 average each a TL600,000
Freight:      Rato TL 300/ton
Supplies,   2%  ales vIlue - wraps - oheFicals
Utilities   2% sales value _ beat, water, pDwer
Miscelaneous: 2.3% sales value
l.,na ter  Loan Interest: 14.375 declining balaene (coenute as 70S inVestment loan, 30% owner oontribution)
Insorance and Taes:  (a) 3/4% (.0075%) of total investment.
Repair and Yhintenance: (a) 2% (.02%) of total itnestagnt.
Selling ExPenose:  (a) 2% sales (advertising, emissons, etc.)
oerrstiog CaePitol: Aoont equal to one Month (30 days)operating costs for year two (TT17,830,000) included with L.T.L. Additional seasnal cre eit of T18,330,o00
durino years 3 to 10.
Depreciation:       Straight line for tax purposes am  residual value.
Each        Year 10
Investment             life                   Year        Residual
Civil works                   U,465                   30 yrs.               382          8,027
Equipment                      7,050                  15                    470          2,820
Vehicles                       1,100                   5                    220            220
Engineer and
Contingencies                5b                     15                    3A72
Totaal                   25credit an5                                             l
2!mes-      43iv of Usabhle Income (sp*rattrng incc   le1ss iDterebt on 111,    se"xonl crsdit and less depreciation.



ANNEX  4
Table 6
~~~ OF ~~~~Page   2
APPRAISAL OF                                 Pg 
AGRICULTURAL CR*IT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Model:       Slaughterhouse
B. Projected Investment Costs
(TL ' 000)
Year 1
Unit      Local     rForeign       Total
Civil Works                           K2
Land Preparation                                 250                      250
Administrative-Social               1,000      1,500                   1,500
Plant Facilities                    2,800      2,800                    2,800
Stockyards                          5,000      1,250                   1,250
Boiler-Machine-S&op area               700       325         200          525
Water-Power-Steam                                600         600       1,200
Waste System                                     750                      750
Chill Rooms                         1,750      3,100                    3,100
Roads                               2,000         9090
Total                                   10260 a2R                ll4
Equipment
Refrigeration                                                500          500
Kill Floor                                     1,000       l.2400       2,,400
Coolers.                                                     700          700
Inedible By-products                                       2,100       2,100
Stock Pens                                       350                      350
Wet Waste Handling                             1 000                    1 000
Total                                                 4s 77
Vehicles
Refrigerated Trucks                   2          550                      550
Over the Road Trucks-Semi             2          550
Total                                     1,100                   1,100
Subtotal                               U14115         5,500      19,615
Engineering (8%)                                 471       1,098       1,569
Subtotal                                 l4,586       6,598      21,184
Physical Contingency (20%)                     3,049       1,187        4,236
Fixed Investment                         17.635       7.785      25.420
Initial Operating Capital                     15.155       2.675       17.830
Total Investment                         32,790     l10460       43 25O



APPRAISAL OF                                                         T
Page 3
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINYUSTRIES PROJCTP
TURKEY
Model: Slaughterhouse
C. ProJectetdlncoBe452nt
.....   =               - ..-. 4..--....... -... 6  Y8                        .      -
Beef                                   84,n3       127,068                                                   1278 22,6  SY%8  2 8  I7  I7,  ;
Jktton                                101,588      152,381    152,381    152,381    152,381    152,381    152,381    152,381    152,381
By-prodacts                            22.2SS         43S3,9    43.909                43909       43.909      43.90o     43S.09      43.9O9
Total                              215,600      323_3_      323.5U
Operating enqlse
Raw Materials                         176,063      264,094    264,094    264,094    264,094    264,094    264,094    264,094    264,0914
mreot Labor                            31l,550     11,550      11,550      11,550     I1L,5       u  11 0    3-1  0      1550  11,0  115
Overbead                                1,800        1,800      1,         1,800       1, 0         lo        1,800       1, 800      1  0
Spplia S                                4,312        6,467      6,467      6,467       6,467       6,467      6,467       6 467      6,467
Utlities                                4,312        6,467      6,467      6,467       6,467       6,467      6,467       6,467       6,467
Maintenae & Repair                        508          508        508        508        *508         508        508         508         508
Insuranoe                                 191          191        191       1V1          191         191        191         191         191
MisOellanous                            4,959        7,437      7,437       7,437      7,437       7,437      7,437       7,437       7,437
Selling E3pense.                        4,312        6,467      6,467      6,467       6,467       6,467      6,467       6,467       6,467
Freight                                 1,836        2,754      2,754      2,754       2,754       2,754      2,754       2,754       2,754
Intereat on Sasonal Credit                -                       5                                             599         S2          59
Total                                           303,334      .311-3     0,0        3e,0        0.C        3t34        Z83
Operating Inzome                             5,757       15,024     15,0241    15,02       15,024      15,024      15,024     15,024      35,024
Income Tax                                466        3,763       3,996      4,230       4,464      4,696       4,932       5,166      5,400
Net operating Income                                                                                           i28
D. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return   20%
SntvgTests:
Invest       SttsCo  I+ 10%: 17%
Operations Costs + 10%: negative
Gross Revenue - lo0%: negative
E. Projected C !st1   Statement
Inflow                                                                              Year ^.....
Revenue                       -        2I5,0       323,358    323,358     323,350 332358         323,358        323,358  323,358    323,358
O,ers Contribution         93            5           _          _           _          _
long-Term Credit          194             x         _           _           _
Seaoal Credit             23                                                8,3         831        8.30        8,130 84 
Total                  7TI          r33,3 ;                             ;                                 331,6B8    331,688    3T
COitflow
operating    eses            -         209,843    308,334    308,334    308,334    308,334    308,334    308,334         308,334    308,334
Investments               25,420        17,830       -          -           -           1,100                  -                -
Ta                                         466       3,763       3,996      4,230       4,464      4,698      94,32        5,166      5,400
Seasonal Credit bpant    -                 -         8,330      8,330       8,330       8,330      8,330       8,330      8,330       8,330
Gabt Service:
Interest      1,751          3,215      4,216       3,672       3,128      2,584       2,040      1,496         952         408
Principal       -              -                    33,7                     784       3.78        3,         -.78        B787
Total                                          J-15=50 7;-                         3M7,5W     .327, M     326076    3326,259
Net Inflow (Outflow)             -            2.076  .s0122                                                                                549
Depreciation                 -                                                                                                        9,459  l.59 1
Incremental Cash nlow  (25.420)       GM          Ila.      - 11.O0     10.19k4      9,46o     in2,        la-8ML                  9,624



ANmEX 4
Table
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRIeULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRONDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURYB
Model: Feed Mill
A.  Projected Paranmtere
Synopsis:   Operation produces cattle feed (50%) and sheep feed (50-).  Products are sold 50% in pellet form and
50% in meal form in the internal market onLy. Output would be 10 ton/hour.
Operation: YEAR 2:  1 shift of 8 hours - 2,000 hours operation
YEAR 3-10: 2 shifts of 8 hours - 4,000 hours operation
Capacity:   Maximum 10 tons per hour.  Average 8 tons per hour
Year 2: 16,000 tons
Year 3 to 10: 32,000 tons
Selling Price: (Per ton of product)
Pellets         Meal
Beef Mix                    6                                    M--335
Sheep Mix                                       TL 3,250         TL 2,826
Raw Materials:
Price           Cattle                     Sh
Per Ton             ton                        on
Oats                      O                       TIo        _
Oil cake                                           3,000         120.0                     400.0
Sugar beet pulp                                      350          80.0                      80.0
Bone meal flour                                    2,500            -                       20.0
Broad Bean                                         2.400          70.0                        -
Corn                                               2,300          60.0                     250.0
Scarf                                                100         200.0                     240.0
Salt                                                 350           3.0                       3.0
Vitamins                                             125           0.5                       0.5
Others                                             3,00           6.5                       6.5
5% waste is considered
Labor:
Year 2          Year 3 to 10
Direct   20 men at TL 7.0 per hour              TL 280,000       560,000
Overhead 4 men at TL 12.0 per hour                  96,0oo        96,ooo
Management 3 men                                   385,000       385,000
Utilities:
Unit Price            Year 2           Year 3 to 10
Power                     TL                    T    ,000   260,000
Fuel                      TLl.5/l                1,524,000    3,0848,ooo
Water                                              130,000       260,000
Containers and Supplies:
Unit  Price           Year 2          Year 2 to 3
Paper bags                TL5T  760,000                           TL 3,520,00
Other (10%)                                          176 000           352,000
1,93b,000        3 , 72
ReE4r & Maintenance
Year2:3o fNiie  investment, exi uding land
Year 3 to 10: 4% of fixed investment, excluding land
Insurance:  3/4% of fixed investment, excluding land
Miscellaneous: 10% of total production costs
Selling Expenses: 2% of total sales
Long Term 70% of total investment, including initial working capital
oen:,   124.375% interest Der year
10 years period including 2 of grace
Seasonal Credit: 6 months average period
14.375% interest per year
Depreciation: (for tax purposes)
Total           Years            Per Year          Year 10 Residual
Civil Works                                       30                 797
Processing Facilities         18,380              15              1,225                7,355
Vehicles                         800               5                160                  160
Engineering & Physical Cont.  3 888               15                259                1 557
Total                      24,                                   T106
Taxes:      43% of taxable income (operating income less interest on LTL and seasonal credit and less depreciation)



ANNEX  4
.   .  .  .               ~~~~~~Table7
APPRAISAL OF                         Tage 2
~~~ ~~Page 2
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Model: Feed Mill
B. Projected Investment Costs
(TL 000)
*............Year 1..........
Io91       Fbreign       Total
Land & Site Preparation                             150           -           150
CIVIL WORKS
Buildings & Constractions                           900           100        1,000
Utilities                                           150           150          300
Connecting roads                                    120            -           120
Subtotal                                    1,320           250        1,570
Processing Facilities                               850       17,530        18,380
Vehicles                                            200           600          800
Subtotal                                    2,370        18,380       20,750
Engineering Services                                824           824       1,688
Subtota4                                    3,194        19,2O4       22,398
Physical Contingency                                26919                    2,240
Total Fixed Investmnt                             3,463        21,175       24,638
Initial Working Capital                           5.558        _ 981         6L519
Total Inveatmnt                              9,021       22,156        31177



APPRAISAL OF                                    Tg* 3
AN AGRIrCUL1RAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Model: Peed Kill
c.   ProJected Inoome Statemnt
arom  .. ,, s                                                           (T'W
Beewf sl                                                                                                                                     0
Beef peUSts                                       10, 74,3   212.'486    2,4W86    21',186    21,486  21,Wu       21,1.6      21,86       21d,86
Shoep  _e                                        Ii3al      22,606    22,606    22,606    22,606      22,68       22 606      22,666      22,606
Sheep pellets                                              IL9                                                                MM 22S
To$al           Xjl;;311   1111    J76         1l    ,770           811T70      8t;770     ~~~~86,710   88,710
TotalTO-
0peretin  tamme
RAw materials                                     30,107    60,231,   60,2114   60,2124    60,23.4    60,234      60,211,     60,2314     60,22k
Dlreot Labor                                        280       560        560       560       560        60           56o       560           560
Overhead                                            481       481        1.81      481       481                     2,81h       ha1         401
Utilitis                                           170       3,568     3,568     3,56      3,5         3,6         3,568       36          3,568
Containra & SUpliee                               1,936      3,872     3,872     3,872     3,872       3,272       3,872       3,872       3,872
kintenance & lBpafr                                  735      S80        980       980   *  980          S60         960         960         seo
In'surace                                           184      184        184       184       184         1&          la          1,          181
Hiolloues                                         2,8a        ,589     5,589     5,589     5,589       5,589       5,569       55.D        5,5I
Selling Rtp8s 8ON                                           1,775                1,775     1,775       1,775       1,77S       3,172       1,775
Interet on - Seanel Credit                        33          Yik gLS                                     g 45 
T l39236    7--7 77,678    77;_7r                   77,_ 76                             77,678
Operating maoo                                           5,149   31,092    11,S    3l1,02      1,092       13,092      11,892      11,092      arm2
Incom  tdmas                                         390     2,735    2,904      3,073     3,21W2      3,410       3,57s       3,77        3,916
Net Operating Income                           E        I=        3M    3       ;                   3                     3I            1IX
D. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 27%
Sensitivity Test
Invoestent Ceots + 10%: 24%
operating Costs + 10%: negntive
Groos Revenue - 10%: negative
E. Projected Cash Flow Statenent
Inflow                                                                           ...... .Year .................................................... j.
1    2                   4                   6                                    ..
Gross Revenue                             -      1  w      877847e5I                        KM~                   88,70778770 
( mr a Contribution                      9 088    1,962        -         _         _         _
Long-TeM Credit                        17,247     4,577        -         -         -         -           -           -           -           -
sReo l  redit                             _             _                326,3                         _.2         66                       AV
Outflow
operating Cost                            -       39,235    77,678    77,678    T7,678    77,678      77,678      77,678      77,678      77,678
Investments                             24,638    6,539       -         -         -          "D         -           -           -           -
Tm z6                                                390     2,735     2,9(4     3,073     3,U21       31.30       3,579       3.7thl      3,916
Seasonal Credit ]bmpment                  -          -       6,332     632       6,332     6,332       6,33V        ,3         6,332       6,332
Debt Services t  terret                 1,697      2,452     3,040               2,25      1,862       IA          1             686           k
fr~nia                           -          -       _AZ    Kal    _A              .Z~!                    .iZ!        a .           fl
14 ti3   (Oaut4                                 _       j0       ,&         2L.-      1a2Z      &             y_       ..           39          _
Depreciation                              _          _        _         _         _          _          _           _           _
Incremernl Cah Flow                 jk4,638)   4760       8.357     8,188    1,039      7p0         718         7,3         7.345S      7,176



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Cattle Fattening Component
A. Background
Need for Animal Fattening
1.        Meat consumption in Turkey has been increasing rapidly in recent
years due to a high income elasticity of demand coupled with high population
growth rates and urbanisation (apparent per capita beef consumption in 1973
was 5.3 kg). However the rate of growth of meat production has not kept pace
with the demand. This has resulted in Government intervention in the meat
market through minimum support prices for producers and retail price controls
for the benefit of consumers. The Third Plan (1973-77 inclusive) also reflects
Government desire to accelerate production and reduce exports of meat and other
livestock products in order to satisfy rising domestic demand (Annex 1).
Government's Choice of Agency
2.        It was against this background that the Turkish Planning Organisa-
tion entrusted the Turkish Sugar Factories Corporation (TSF) 1/ with a program
of cattle breeding, distribution of breeding stock to farmers and cattle fat-
tening in 1969. The choice of TSF as executing agency was primarily two-fold
(a) they had an existing widespread network of supervisors and contacts with
the farming community who grew sugar beet; and (b) the main by-products of
sugar extraction, namely beet pulp and molasses could form important ingre-
dients in cattle feed.
3.        The cattle fattening component of the TSF program is confined to
the sugar beet growers with whom TSF annually contracts for delivery of sugar
1/   TSF is a state economic enterprise established in 1935.  The corporation
comprises 17 factories of which 5 are classified as private but in these
latter TSF is the majority shareholder and provides all the organisation.
TSF is involved in a wide range of other activities including engineering
plants, alcohol production and stockholding interests in the Sugar Bank,
Sugar Insurance Company, Seed, Improvement and Marketing Corporation and
a Nitrogen Plant. In 1975 TSF plans an expansion program of TL 814 mil-
lion in its sectors of operation of food, agriculture and machinery.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
beet.  Sugar beet is grown by most farmers under a four year rotation with
cereals, alfalfa and/or sunflower or other crops. Only farmers with 100
decares or more of irrigable land are allowed to grow sugar beet annually,
areas with less than this amount must grow the crop once in 4 years. The total
number of sugar beet growers in the country is 450,000 but on average only
250,000 are awarded contracts annually. In 1974, the 250,000 growers, with
a total of 170,000 hectares planted to sugar beet, lived in 7,000 villages
distributed over 51 provinces. These villages were assisted by a TSF tech-
nical staff of 650, comprising 200 district agents and 450 subordinates.
Existing TSF Program
4.        Objectives:  The principal aims of the program are several:
(a) To diversify the income pattern of beet growers by providing
financial resources and employment during the winter months.
(b) To improve the yield of meat from livestock. This is done
by removing from the land cattle which are otherwise over-
stocked and undernourished, particularly in the Eastern Prov-
inces. These vould otherwise either be slaughtered due to
lack of winter feed or be retained for several additional
years growing at rates-little above maintenance.
(c) To increase the animal population of beet farmers and
thereby the availability of farmyard manure.
(d) To encourage the production of forage crops such as alfalfa.
These provide direct constituents to the ration of cattle
plus filling an important position in the crop rotation of
sugar beet production.
5.        Procedure:  Contracts between sugar beet growers and TSF are drawn
up during the winter months for the beet crops of the following season. These
farmers are asked to join the fattening program in groups of at least 5 and
no more than 20. Each group of farmers has a leader and deputy who are the
main points of contact with TSF. All signatories of the group are equally
liable for repayment of loans in the case of default of one of their members.
Each member of the group should be willing to fatten no fewer than 3 and no
more than 40 head.
6.        Credit is made available to members of the eligible groups to cover
up to 70% of the purchase cost of the animals and feed costs over the fattening
period. The income from the future sugar beet crops is used as collateral.
The credit which TSF extends to the farmer is obtained under short term
procedures from TCZB at an interest rate of 14.4% and is on-let to the farmers
at the same rate. In 1973/74 fattening season a 6.4% Government subsidy was
applied to these funds making the net rate to the farmer 8.0% but this subsidy
was removed for subsequent fattening periods. TSF is therefore the sole
borrower from TCZB and is liable for collection and repayment of all funds
from the subborrowers.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        Requirements:  The contract between TSF and the fattening farmers
requires that the farmer must submit to the guidance and supervision of TSF
technical staff. Also, eligible farmers must have access to barns acceptable
to TSF. They have to organize the purchase of cattle, negotiate a price and
arrange for their transport. Before an animal is accepted into the program
it is weighed and given a strict veterinary examination by TSF technical
representatives. These latter staff also regularly supervise the cattle
throughout the fattening period to ensure that the recommended ration is fed
and that all veterinary demands are met.
8.        The farmers are under a contractual obligation to sell the fattened
animals to the Meat and Fisheries Organisation (MFO), 1/ Etve Balik, at prices
fixed by it after negotiations with TSF. The MFO fixes a base price per
kilogram of liveweight (weight-on-the-hoof minus 7% for fill etc), in relation
to a minimum recovery of dressed meat. The present system (1974/75) is based
on 52% dressing-out with a 2% increase in price per 1% increase in yield above
base value. An additional improvement premium is applied to animals with
dressing values of more than 54% if the age is less than 3 years. This
premium is TL 0.1/kg liveweight. Near the end of the fattening period the
farmer is advised of the date he must deliver the fattened animals to the
TSF weigh scales collecting point. There MFO weighs and officially receives
them.
9.        All animals accepted into the program are insured against death
until their delivery to MFO. The farmer is paid by TSF after deduction of
credit charges including those for veterinary expenses and insurance, within
a few weeks of the date of sale regardless of whether TSF has been reimbursed
by MFO.
10.       Results:  The present situation of the program is that there are
21 district chiefs, 36 zoo technicians and 36 veterinarians directly involved
in a project covering 4,500 farmers. Indirect assistance is also available,
for supervision purposes, from the regular TSF technical staff (para 3).
Some of the veterinarians are hired by TSF from Government sources on a
temporary basis in areas where these skills are not available through TSF.
The non-veterinary staff work on regular sugar beet duties during the
growing and harvesting season. Supervision is regular (1-3 visits/week) and
thorough. The provision of feedstuff and cattle purchasing credit has allowed
animals of approximately 150 kg liveweight to be intensively fattened at net
1/   MFO was established by Government and currently operates 11 slaughter
processing plants known as "combines" with another 2 scheduled to be
opened in 1975. This present capacity restricts MFO to approximately
10% of domestic beef production. In areas where farmers, not in the
program, have experienced difficulty in having animals slaughtered
timely enough, the problem appears to be one of cold storage rather
than of slaughtering facilities. Also MFO at present only operates one
8-hour shift per day.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
rates of 0.7 kg/day. Farmers in the program experienced few delays in the
marketing of their cattle, however their counterparts outside the program often
have to retain animals more than four weeks past the scheduled date of
slaughter due to inability of MFO to process the animals. For the 1974-75
season, the MFO base price (calculated on 52% dressing out value) per kilogram
of liveweight was between TL 13.90 - 14.70 depending on the region and the
month of slaughter. However the average price received for all cattle fat-
tened in the first cycle (September-December) of the TSF program was TL 15.7/
kg due to the age premia and the high dressing percentages (approximately 56-
58% on average compared to values for animals not in the program, but pro-
cessed by MFO, of approximately 50-52%). MFO sells 70% of its production to
state institutions, notably the Army, hospitals and canteens. The weakness
of the arrangement is that Government frequently requires MFO to sell the
meat at below cost, subsidising the loss by direct payments to MFO. The
resultant effect has been a delay in payment by the state institutions and
by the Government of the subsidy. This in turn delays repayment to the
farmer or, in the case of the fattening programs, to TSF. This year (1974/75)
a regularly scheduled second fattening cycle (January to April) was inoperable
due to the failure of MFO to pay TSF which in turn could not generate suffi-
cient funds to instigate a second feeding cycle. Although these arrears have
been removed, the detrimental effect of this lag in payment for cattle bought
by MFO is of continued concern. However responsibility for resolving the
problem in the longer term has been assumed by the Chairman of the Project
Coordinating Committee together with the Ministry of Finance.
11.       The number of cattle fattened in recent years in two cycles has
peaked around 131,000 (Table 1) with first cycle numbers being approximately
twice as great as second cycle. This is due to (a) the reduced number of
animals available for fattening at the beginning of the second cycle in
January and (b) the inability to receive adequate credit to finance a second
cycle. The latter point has resulted in a failure in 1974/75 to finance a
second cycle for reasons noted in para 10.
12.       Conclusion.  The TSF program has proven to be effective in increasing
the production of meat by improving the process of fattening. The returns to
the farmer as outlined in the model (Table 2) have resulted in a very profitable
operation which uses a by-product, namely pulp + molasses, and close technical
supervision to produce a higher yield of meat from a given animal than is
obtained under traditional beef meat production systems in Turkey. The system
is particularly important in the eastern part of Turkey where livestock pro-
vide a major part of the farmers income.
13.       When questioned about the merits of the program, farmers noted the
following as their major advantages received:
-    The availability of short-term credit to purchase the
feeder stock and feedstuffs compared to the relatively
strict requirements set by other lending institutions and
the higher interest rates of private lenders



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Regularity and confidence in the marketing arrangements
which avoid extended delays before cattle are accepted for
slaughter
The insurance policy against animal loss during the fattening
period
-    Confidence in the TSF technical staff built up by in-the-field
experience, and association with a respected organisation
which provides similar technical guidance on sugar beet produc-
tion in the summer months
The principal positive aspects of this program, therefore, are the organiza-
tional strength and geographic network of TSF in association with the linkage
of credit to technical guidance, supervision and marketing arrangements.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
TSF Cattle Fattening Program
___                                            /2
1969L'    1970      1971      1972     1973   1974-
Number of Cattle:
Projected (2 cycles)  39,612  120,000  160,000  170,000  180,000  200,000
Actually Fattened      36,789  118,840   85,555  119,778  130,990   95,699
Net Average Weight per
Head (kg)                 208       200       190       224      233       235
Number of Villages         287      741       504       532      607       388
Number of Farmers       2,028    5,758    3,817    4,471    5,186    4,529
Number of Head per
Farmer                   18        21        22       27        25        21
/1   Winter of 1969/70.
/2   Only one cycle actually fattened due to lack of credit.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
APPRA1SAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Farm Model: Beef Fattening Unit (20 head: 110 Days)
A. Projected Income Statement
TL
Gross Revenue
Sales Li                                              63,916
Insurance L2                                           1,200
Manure &3                                              3 217
Total Gross Revenue
Operating Expenses
Purchases  4                                          34,500
Transport /5                                             500
Feed /6                                               17,160
Insurance and Veterinary Expenses L7                   1,000
Miscellaneous L8                                        600
Labor L9                                               3 630
Interest /1O                                           1 608
Total Expenses /11
Net Operating Income - 20 head                              9 335
- per head
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
20 head                     1 head
Owners Contribution                       23,811                      1,191
Loan Funds                                33,579                      1,679
L1 19 head at TL 14.5/kg at 232/kg/head (final gross weight of 250 kg less 7% for fill etc.)
2 At one head at TL 1,200/head. Insurance receipt TL400. Meat value of animal TL800.
L3 19.5 head at 15 kg/day at TL 0.1/kg for 110 days.
20 head at TL 11.5jkg at 150 kg/head.
20 head at TL 0.1/head/km (30 per truck) over 250 km.
6 Daily feed requirements per head:
Liveweight of the Animal (kg)
150/200                   200/250
(TL/kg)                       TL                        TI
Barley                      2.0            rTo         2.00          r.O          2.00
Chopped Straw               1.0            1.2         1.20          1.5         1.50
Dry Beet Pulp La            1.2            1.5         1.80          2.0          2.40
Bran                        1.5            C.5         0.75          0.7          1.05
Sunflower Cake              2.0            o.6         1.20          0.9         1.80
Mineral Mix Lb               -              +            .05          +            .07
V7          7.00            ,         o.72 L0
La  Dry sugar beet pulp can be replaced by wet pulp at TL 0.04/kg + molasses at TL 0.25/kg.
as follows: (150/200) - 15 kg wet pulp + 0.4 kg molasses, (200/250) - 20 kg wet pulp + 0.5
kg molasses.  This would decrease feed costs by TL 1.10 and TL 1.47/day respectively.
0.5% salt at TL 0.3/kg + 1.0% bone meal at TL 0.6/kg.
Over 110 day feeding period, average cost of feed would be approximately TL 8.0/day,
therefore 19.5 head x TL 8 x 110 days.
L7  20 head at TL 50/head includes insurance of TL 22/head.
20 head at TL 30, includes maintenance and repair on buildings.
79 TL 33/day x 110 days. For total project cost, assume 50% of farmers use only family labor.
710 14.375% p.a. on 65% of feed and purchase costs, repaid after 4 months.
LU Additional feeding-tax expenses incurred in a small number of villages, TL 20/head.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Ferry Boat
Background
1.        The Fruit and Vegetable Export Project Loan/Credit 762/257 TU in-
cluded a ferryboat component for which financing of 100% of the foreign ex-
change costs would be provided for purchasing two new ferryboats. The sub-
borrower would use them to establish twice weekly service from the Tuarkish
port of Izmir to Trieste (Italy) and/or Koper (Yugoslavia) principally to
carry refrigerated over-the-road trailers with fruit, vegetables, fish and
meat to European markets. In addition, general cargo would be carried on
return trips and when perishable cargo was not available for outgoing voyages.
Each ferryboat would have a dead weight tonnage of about 3,000 and be capable
of carrying 40-foot refrigerated trailers (about 65) at a minimum speed of
18.5 knots. The ferryboats would be procured by ICB, but they would be
ordered only after the Bank and the Association had approved the subborrower
and its management and overseas arrangements.
;2.       Until 1974, no potential subborrower had shown an active interest in
the ferryboat subloans. However, with increasing exports of fresh fruits and
vegetables, difficulties with the overland route to Europe and a general
increase in ocean cargo transportation in the Mediterranean, Turkish Cargo
Lines (TCL), a state economic enterprise, indicated an interest in the ferry-
boat project, to the Agricultural Bank of Turkey and the Project Unit (PU),
Fruit and Vegetable Export Project. The PU assisted by TCL prepared a feas-
ibility study which was submitted to the Bank and the Association as the
basis for requesting approval for financing the ferryboat project. The
study indicated that new ferryboat costs had increased from US$4.2 million,
each estimated at the time of appraisal to about US$11 million by June 1975.
As a result of the Bank's review and a request for more information, the PU
prepared a supplementary report which indicated that TCL would be the sub-
borrower and that used or new ferryboats under construction on contract
(resale) would be acceptable as an alternative to purchasing new ferryboats.
Investment costs would be about 25% less if such boats were available on the
world market.
3.        The concept changed from ferryboats carrying only over-the-road
trailers to the new Roll-on/Roll-off one which has become successful through-
out the world. RO/RO ferryboats carry both over-the-road trailers and
el



ANNEX 6
Page 2
special ship trailers 1/ providing considerable flexibility on shorter
shipping routes. It can operate on (a) terminal to terminal basis with small
lots of cargo carried on pallets, (b) short time, in port, (c) carrying
conventional containers of ship's trailers, and (d) lifting conventional
trucks and semitrailers which are not normal marine equipment.
4.        TCL operates 58 ships for liner, tramp and time-charter services
with a total capacity of 840,000 DWT. The Ministry of Finance accounts for
68% of TCL's paid-in capital (TL 750 million or US$ 53 million) and is TCL's
major shareholder. The remaining shares are owned by the Turkish Pension
Fund and the Turkish Maritime Bank. As of December 31, 1974 TCL's total
assets amounted to TL 3.4 billion (US$242 million).
Transport Demand
5.        In 1973, Turkish exports of fresh fruit and vegetables totaled
about 163,000 tons of which 51% went to Western Europe, 48% to Eastern Europe
and 1% to Arab countries. About 33% of the exports to Europe passed through
the ports of Izmir and Mersin. During the same year, waterborne exports of
general cargo to Europe totaled about 1.9 million tons, 60% of which went
through Adriatic ports. About 41% of the general cargo was exported from
Izmir and Mersin. Imports of waterborne general cargo, during 1973, from
Europe to Turkey was about 2.7 million tons of which 50% passed through
Adriatic ports. About 32% was imported through Mersin and Izmir. Of the
total waterborne Adriatic cargo, about 7% was carried by Turkish flag vessels,
in 1974.
6.        Fruit and vegetable exports are projected to increase to about
336,000 tons by 1980 of which 50% would be exported to Adriatic ports from
Mersin and Izmir. During the same period, general cargo has been estimated
to grow to about 3 million tons. Incremental increase of fruit and vegetable
exports from the two Turkish ports (115,000 tons) could go to the RO/RO fleet
which would have an annual outbound capacity of about 131,000 tons. However,
the increase in volume would not be fully achieved by RO/RO service because of
the seasonality of cargo flow. It is estimated that about 75,000 tons of
perishable products could be lifted with the balance of the capacity being
allocated to general cargo. The mix of general and perishable cargo would
vary over the year, but non-seasonal shippers would not accept the incon-
venience of seasonal rerouting of traffic to satisfy the demand for
pershiable cargo space.
1/   Special ship trailers with 18 ton cargo capacity are loaded at the port,
pulled onto the boat with a special tractor, pulled off at destination
with a similar tractor, and the cargo unloaded onto railcars and/or over-
the-road trailers.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        Another aspect of cargo potential is the over-the-road traffic
which enters and leaves Turkey and the in-transit traffic through Turkey.
The total number of one-way trips of 40-foot trailers to, from and through
Turkey increased from 9,100 in 1968 to 25,000 in 1974, of which about 50%
were in-transit primarily destined for Iran. The total trips are projected
to increase to about 36,000 by 1980.
8.        To meet the requirements of a viable RO/RO service, TCL would need
to carry about 12% of the cargo that moved between Turkey and Adriatic ports
in 1974 as compared with the 7% it lifted by conventional shipping. Consi-
dering the improved service offered by RO/RO vessels, in terms of service
frequency, transit speed, flexibility of cargo handling and cargoes to be
handled, it would be expected that additional cargo would be attracted.
9.        In shipping, a number of operators offer comparable services but
with costs that may differ widely. To reduce the potential effects of "cut
throat" competition, carriers usually form what are referred to as "confe-
rences", although other names may be used. These are forms of agreement be-
tween the competing carriers to offer rates and conditions of transport that
are the same between one another, thus providing a form of rate stability.
Prior to 1974, the Adriatic-Turkey carriers operated on the basis of a
"Gentleman's Agreement" to follow the practices of the AMETILE conference that
covered the West Coast of Italy - Levant services. In 1974, a more formal
agreement was entered into by all but TCL to cover the Adriatic - Turkey trades
known as ALFA (Adriatic-Levant Freight Agreement). TCL has applied for
membership and it is expected that the application will be approved. At
this time, ALFA is geared only to conventional break bulk cargo due to the
general use of coaster-type ships in the trade. Adriatica, a RO/RO operator
in Adriatic region, follows ALFA for all but full trailer loads where a
"freight ALL kinds" type of rate is used. The formation of the ALFA con-
ference is viewed positively by the trade in that the group has some strength
and will persist in the long run, thus, securing a stable rate position.
Analysis and Recommendations
10.       Evaluation of the feasibility studies and updating information on
the used boat approach indicate that the RO/RO ferryboat component is tech-
nically feasible and financially viable and would provide Turkey with an
alternative shipping route to European markets, particularly for perishable
products less dependent upon the uncertainties of overland road transport
which is subject to numerous border tie-ups.
11.       Various alternative investment schedules have been explored such as
(a) buy one now and the second one when the Credit Project is effective, (b)
buy one and lease the second one as a "bare" boat with a provision to pur-
chase when funds become available and finally, (c) purchase both boats at
same time. After reviewing the alternatives, it appears best if both boats
were to be procured at the same time. The advantages include:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(a) Provides an opportunity to purchase sister ships which would
not only reduce spare part inventory requirements but also
contribute to operating effectiveness.
(b) Permits provision of the regular and frequent service between
Turkish and Northern Adriatic ports essential to regular flow
of produce to European markets and to generating demand for
service.
(c) Encourages development of adequate port services including
new port management necessary to support a financially viable
RO/RO service.
(d) Minimizes additional procurement costs due to investment cost
increases, which might result from further delays.
12.       The physical characteristics of the RO/RO ferryboats to be procured
are:
Length Overall                       105 - 120 M
Draft                                  5 - 6   M
Deadweight                        2,500 - 3,000 DWT
Main Engines                         2 at 4,300 BHP
Diesel Generators
Engines                            3 at 750 BHP
Generators                        3 at 625 N A, 440 V
Speed - Draft 4M1                    18.5 knots
Trailer elevator                     18.0 x 3.4 M, 40 tons
Crew                                23
13.       TCL is organized bike most shipping companies with a vast\net of
agents established outside the home country to solicit cargo in both ports
and major industrial centers of the world. These agents within Europe and
the United Kingdom would solicit eastbound semi-trailers and flat loads of
general cargo.
14.       Under the Assistant General Manager (Technical) is the Operations
Department which is responsible for da  to day operations of vessels in the
fleet including crewing, maintenance, storing and other activities that
relate strictly to the vessel and not to shore based services. The Assistant
General Manager for Trade would, through the Traffic Department, be responsible
for soliciting and booking cargo for the Adriatic service. Also, the group
for Conference Matters and Agreements are part of this department's functions.
Included are stevedore and port agreements that must be entered into with
respect to the new and different arrangements required of a RO/RO operation.
The navigation department is responsible for scheduling of vessels in the
fleet which would be done with the cooperation of the Adriatic Service Divi-
sion of the Traffic Department.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
15.       Lacking in the organization is any clear delineation of responsi-
bility for the establishment of new operational procedures for the cargo
handling services including the most important, the terminal operations,
which would be a vital part of the successful implementation of a RO/RO
ferryboat service. Complicating this issue is the fact that the responsi-
bility for many of the terminal stevedoring and control functions is not in
the hands of TCL but under the control of the cognizant port authorities.
Since no clear authority exists in this area, the overall Turkish port
organization is in the process of c,ange.  Due to the lack of experience in
organizing and operating RO/RO serve, technical assistance would be pro-
vided under the project to the ports by TCL for training operations personnel
the practices necessary to assure efficient cargo handling and rapid vessel
turnaround. The services of a terminal and equipment coordinator who would
be responsible for all training and supervision of the port cargo would be
provided under the project.
16.       Since sufficient funds are not available from the Loan/Credit 762/
257 TU, to finance the two RO/RO ferryboats and ancillary equipment necessary
to establish the RO/RO service, one ferryboat would be provided from L/C
762/257 TU and provisions for financing the second boat would be included
in this project. Government and TCL have indicated their willingness to
make a contribution of US$3.1 million and US$0.8 million respectively to the
investment costs.  US$6.85 million would be provided from L/C 762/257 TU and
the balance US$6.85 million would be included under this project. The pro-
posed investment program envisaged is:



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Investment Costs                                US$ Million
Two used or resale RO/RO ferryboats               16.00
Ancillary on-shore and on-ship equipment            1.00
Price contingency                                  0.60
Total              17.60
Financing Plan
Loan/Credit 762/257 TU (one boat)                   6.85/1
Agricultural Credit Project or Government/2         6.85/1
(one boat)
Turkish Government Budgetary allocation to TCL   3.10
Turkish Cargo Lines                                0.80
Total              17.6
/1   Includes US$0.3 million price contingency.
/2   However, the decision of the Bank's Executive Directors on proposed
inclusion of US$6.85 million would be known, at the earliest, in April
1976. Procurement has been initiated, with the Government agreeing to
assume this portion of the cost in case it would not be approved by the
Executive Directors.
17.       Subject to the conditions below, the Bank and the Association con-
curred to TCL as the subborrower and to procuring two used or resale RO/RO
ferryboats using the procedures detailed in Appendix I:
(a) The Government, The Agricultural Bank of Turkey, and Turkish
Cargo Lines
(i) Accept the above financing plan.
(ii) Agree to purchasing two RO/RO ferryboats at same time.
(iii) Agree to follow the revised procurement procedures set
forth in Appendix I.
(b) The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
(i) Approve a subloan to Turkish Cargo Lines for the ferryboats.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(c) The Government
(i) Agrees to provide or cause to be provided the additional
US6.85 million for the second ferryboat investment costs
with the understanding that the Bank's management is
prepared to recommend retroactive financing for this
amount under the proposed Agricultural Credit Project.
It must be clearly understood, however, that the retro-
active financing although recommended has not yet been
approved by the Bank's Executive Directors.
(d) Turkish Cargo Lines
(i) Agrees to assume the foreign exchange risk on the funds
provided for the second vessel by the Bank under the
proposed Agricultural Credit Project. Otherwise the
interest rate of 8.5% for the subloan would not be
acceptable to the Bank.
(ii) Agrees to obtain the services of a specialist consultant
acceptable to the Bank and Association, within 60 days
after the agreement to proceed with the procurement of
the two RO/RO ferrvhoats, for as.sisting in the technical
and economic evaluation of the ferryboats offered for
sale. The consultant should have experience in purchasing
and evaluating used ships.
(iii) Agrees to provide the Bank and Association the detailed
arrangements for services and copies of the agreements
for facilities with port facilities in Italy and/or
Yugoslavia (Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement) at
the same time the recommended list of acceptable RO/RO
ferryboat offers are sent to the Bank (Appendix I, page 2).
Included would be the arrangements made with unions,
railroads, trucking firms, federal and local Governments
and custom officials. Also, the provisions made for
receiving, storing, securing, loading and unloading cargo
would be included.
(iv) Agrees to obtain the services of a consultant acceptable
to, and on terms of reference agreed with, the Bank not
more than 90 days after the agreement to proceed with
the procurement of the two RO/RO ferryboats. The con-
sultant would assist TCL in establishing the RO/RO system
including on-shore facilities, training personnel in
cargo handling operations, and developing schedules
(Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement). The con-
sultant need not necessarily be retained on a full-
time basis.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
18.       Retroactive financing is proposed to facilitate simultaneous
procurement of two similar vessels (sister ships) as required to establish
regular and frequent services.
19.       The revenue, investment and operating costs used in the financial
model for the two RD/RO ferryboats are based on May 1975 prices. The as-
sumptions used for load factor and cargo rates were conservative and the
operating costs were generous. The financial rate of return is adequate and
the sensitivity analysis indicates the financial viability is not too
sensitive to reasonable changes in investment costs, operating costs and
revenue.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
RO/RO Ferry boat Procurement Procedures
1.        The procurement procedures would provide for both international
competition as well as prompt and efficient procurement of two used or resale
RO/RO ferryboats. General specifications establishing the acceptable para-
meters for the boats would be furnished to interested sellers.
2.        Expected procurement actions would be as follows.  Dates for each
action would be mutually agreed upon by the Bank, Government and Turkish
Cargo Lines.
Dates     Action Performed By                      Action
3/12/76   Turkish Cargo        Make survey of the market to identify all
Lines (TCL)          suitable existing, and new building vessels
4/9/76    TCL                   Send letter or telex to the owners or builders
as identified above requesting price indication,
delivery dates and other data.
4/12/76   TCL                   Inform recognized international ship brokers as
above to owners, but indicating that owners and
yards were so notified earlier.
4/23/76   TCL                  Release, in a well known shipping publication,
the announcement of intent to purchase.
5/23/76   TCL                  Receive expressions of interest, price indica-
tions and delivery dates.
5/29/76   TCL                  Inform all offerers that are non-responsive to
functional requirements or whose indicated price
is far out of line of others. Request detailed
technical data on accepted vessels of interest.
6/12/76   TCL                  Deadine for acceptance of any amendments to
initial offer and receipt of technical data.
6/26/76   TCL                  Complete Preliminary Technical and Economic
Review with the assistance of a qualified
specialist. Reject those unsuitable and inform
acceptable owners that vessels are under con-
sideration and that firm price indication is
required for more complete financial evaluation.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
Vessel inspections may commence. Provide the
Bank and Association the recommended list of
acceptable offers including a summary of the
technical and economic review. 1/
7/1/76    Bank                 Provide approval for negotiation with final
offerers.
7/10/76   TCL                  Deadline for final firm offers and basic terms
of sale. Inform all rejected offerors. Commence
negotiating details of accepted offers and dry
docking of vessels.
7/31/76   TCL                  Complete negotiations and sign contract which
would contain a reserve clause indicating it is
not effective until approved by Government and
Bank.
8/15/76   Bank                 Give final approvals.
8/25/76   TCL                  Forward two conformed copies of contract to
Bank.
9/1/76    TCL                  Start-up service.
3.        A sample "Request for Expression of Interest on Purchase of Roll-On/
Roll-Off Ships" is attached.
4.        An economic evaluation which will quantify the technical elements
for each ship will be prepared to better define the differences between the
various offers. Attached is a procedure for economic evaluation to assist in
the evaluations.
5.        We recommend the Norwegian Sale Form modified to meet local needs
and agreed upon by both parties would serve as the basic format and document.
1/   Conformed Agreement for port facilities arrangements to be submitted to
the Bank along with the recommended list of acceptable offers.



ANNEX 6
Enclosure 1
Page 1
Request for Expression of Interest for
Purchase of Roll-On/Roll-Off ships
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey has received a loan/credit from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and International
Development Association (IDA) in various currencies equivalent to US$25 million
toward the cost of a Fruit and Vegetable Export Project, and it is intended
that part of the proceeds of this loan./credit will be applied to payments
under the contract for which this invitation to offer is issued. Payment by
IBRD and IDA will be made only upon approval by IBRD and IDA in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the Loan/Credit Agreement and will be subject
in all respects to the terms and conditions of that Agreement.
1.        Turkish Cargo Lines is interested in purchasing two (2) Roll-On/
Roll-Off ships conforming to the general specifications given below. Since
Turkish Cargo Lines is unable to finalize negotiations prior to
it is asking expressions of interest to provide required vessels.
2.        General Technical Conditions
(a) Type: RO/RO (for semi-trailers 40', flats, containers 20')
(b) Having highest notation of an international class society.
(c) Rules and Certificates:
IMCO Regulations
SOLAS, 1960
ILLC, 1966
International Convention Against Pollution of Sea with an Oil
Product, 1954
Radio Communications Convention, International Regulation for
Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1960
Suez Canal Regulations
National Tonnage Certificate
(d) DWT (Summer Load Line): 2,500 - 3,500 Long Tons
(e) Main Engine: Diesel Engine, Medium Speed, Twin screw
(f) Service Speed at Full Load Condition: Minimum 16 knots at 90% MCR



ANNEX 6
Enclosure 1
Page 2
(g) Age for resale or used vessels:
(1) Used vessels up to five years old with special survey passed.
Delivery - prompt
(2) Resales Delivery - No later than end March 1976
(h) Cargo Handling Systems: Stern Port/ramp
Elevator or Ramp to Upper and Lower Decks
3.        General Descriptions
(a) All expressions of interest are to be received no later than 2400
hours on               in Istanbul.
(b) After technical and financial review of all vessel offers,
selected owners having suitable tonnage will be requested on
to advise on the current availability of vessel
indicated and if still available for purchase, to provide firm
price offers. It is expected that final negotiation will be com-
pleted no later than _
(c)  All expressions of interest to give specification of vessel(s),
general arrangement plans, price range or indications, and
delivery dates.
(d) Turkish Cargo Lines reserves the right to accept or reject any
or all offers.
(e) Turkish Cargo Lines will not be obligated for the payment of
any commissions, fees or expenses incurred in responding to
this request, or for the realization of the purchase of
vessel(s).
(f) All owners, shipyards or shipbrokers may submit offers direct.
(g) All offers will be kept confidential.
(h) Offers will be written and addressed as follows:
Turkish Cargo Lines
Meclisi Mebusan C 93-95-97
Istanbul
Turkey
Telex No.



ANNEX 6
Enclosure 1
Page 3
NOTE:  All offers not responsive will be so notified by _
Amendments to offers will be accepted up to             , but no vessels sub-
stitutions will be permitted.
It is expected that responsive offers will be evaluated by
and owners so notified.  Further evaluations and preliminary
negotiations will commence at that time.



ANNEX 6
Enclosure 2
Page 1
Economic Evaluation of Tender Offers
1.        The procedure for the economic evaluation is to emphasize the quan-
tification of the technical elements so as to better define the differences
between the various offers. An internal rate of return or Discounted Cash
Flow (DCF) will be calculated for each of the various offers considered.
2.        The first screening of the offers will be by a pure technical
delivery and price evaluation which is likely to reduce the number of offers
subject to a more thorough economic analysis to a reasonable number. The
reason for rejection of any offers must be made known to the Bank.
3.        Each of the offered vessels will be examined on a typical voyage
itinerary with a base cargo load of some 65% of a maximum capacity of 55 semi-
trailer equivalents (STE). For ships larger than 55 STE the percent utiliza-
tion is to be reduced while for ships smaller than 55 STE the utilization is
to be increased. Unless a better value can be developed by analysis of traf-
fic data it is suggested that a 1.25% change in utilization will occur for
each 100 tons of deadweight capacity or equivalent trailer capacity.
4.        Start up deadweight utilization will be applied to the base utiliza-
tion values as follows:
Start-Up             Base
util.              Util.
1st year                          80%       of       65%.
2nd year                          90%       of       65%
3rd year                          95%       of       65%
4th year and over                 100%      of        65%
5.        The operating life of the ship in Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL) serv-
ice will be 20 years less the ship's age at time of delivery.  Salvage value
may be taken at about $80 per light ship ton, but of course is neglioible in
a discounted cash flow approach.
6.        It would be expected that a baseline operating cost profile as
shown in Exhibit 2.5 would be established with appropriate annual variations
to reflect the year to year changes, particularly as may be due to special
surveys, etc. These base line costs would represent the best thinking of TCL
as to the operating costs that they would expect to see in a vessel as they
would have built it. The economic evaluation must consider the variations
from the base line cost that are reflected by the characteristics, capacities
and technical features of each offered ship.



ANNEX 6
Enclosure 2
Page 2
Exhibit 2.5
Operating Cost Summary
Annual Costs (Thousands TL)
One Ship
Personnel                                                   4250
Stores & Supp'lies                                           400
Maintenance & Repair                                         600
Insurance                                                   3450
Overhead                                                     750
Total Fixed                                 9500
Port Expenses                                               2465
Fuel, Lubes and Water                                      13070
Ship Trailer Costs*                                         1500
Total Variable Years 0-7                   17035
Years 7-15                                  15535
* Years 0-7 only
7.        With respect to costs TCL should define the characteristics and
outfit of each ship offered to examine differences between them. In the case
of secondhand or resale ships, the technical/economic differences between
the vessels, regardless of deadweight are:
1.   Incremental costs to TCL to bring vessel up to the standard
in terms of improvements, modifications, and certain repairs.
2.   Estimated costs to be incurred over the life cycle of the
ship due to the nature of the machinery, structure or outfit
of the ship.
3.   Increased operating costs due to certain unfavorable operating
or maintenance conditions on board and vice versa.
8.        The experience of TCL should be used in evaluating the economic
effects of the technical differences on the operation of each vessel. For
example, if it is known that the one type of diesel offered may require an
expensive rebuilding each three years, then an estimate of this must be in
the cash flow at the appropriate point of time. If an offer is suitable
except for some features, such as a height of automobile deck, then the cost
of its removal can be included as part of the capital cost of the system at
time zero. Certain engines are known in general to require more maintenance



ANNEX 6
Enclosure 2
Page 3
than others or could conceivably require an additional day-work crewman which
would be a recurring cost each year above the base line standard level.
9.        With resale ships it is possible that TCL will be aware of change
orders to be made prior to delivery. The cost to perform these changes must
be included in the capital base of the ship.
10.       Finally, it should be possible to perform an incremental analvsis
of the two best systems, which permit their comparison so as to determine
the better of two competing systems, which may individually appear quite good.
11.       The following theoretical example of the data is shown:
Net Cash Flows   -   $ Thousand
Year                                Project A  Project B        A - B
0                                   (1000)      (750)         (250)
1                                    525         465            60
2                                    425         345            80
3                                    325         225           100
4                                     225        105           120
DCF Return                    21.8%       25.1%         14%
12.       In the above Project A, although having a higher investment and a
lower DCF return by itself, is superior to Project B, if the incremental
return on the additional investment is higher than the minimal acceptable
return. However, should the minimal return be greater than 14.6% then
Project B is the clear choice.



APPRAISAL 0OP
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRoINDUSTRIES PPOJECT
TURKEY
Model: Roll-on/Roll-ofl' Ferryboats
A. Projected Income Statement
(TL 000o
Y E A R
1         2         3         4          5         6         7          8         9        10        11         12        13        14         15
Oross Revenue
Receipts A!                      81,839    92,751   103,662   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   lo9,118   log,1i8   log,318   109,118   109,118   iog,118   iog,118
Total                         81,829    922751         103,66 9,118   109,118   109,118   109,118 lo0,118                 109,118   109,118   lo9,1018        109,118   109,118   109,118
Operating Expenses
Personnel 1!                      8,500      8,500     8,500     8,500      8,500     8,500     8,500     8,500     8,500      8,500     8,500      8,500     8,500     8,500      8,500
Stores and Supplies  3               900       900       900       900        900       900       900       900        900       goo       900        900       900       900        9oo
Maintenance L_                    1,200      1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200     1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200
Insurance                         6 6,900    6,900     6,900     6,900     6,900      6,900     6,900     6,goo     6,900      6,900     6,900      6,900     6,900     6,goo      6,900
Overhead 1                        1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500      1,500     1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500      1,500
Port Expenses                     4 930      4,930     4,930     4,930      4,930     4,930     4,930     4,930     4,930      4,930     4,930      4,930     4,930     4,930      4,930
Fuel, Lube and Water L           26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140    26,140
Ship Trailer Costs a              3,000      3,000     3,000     3,000      3,000     3,000     3,000      _         _                    _          __        _
Total                         53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070
Operating Income                     28,769    39,681    50,592    56,048    56,o48    56,048    56,o48    59,o48    59,o48    59,o48    59,o48    59,o48    59,o48    59,o48    59,048
Depreciation
Ships L                         14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933
Equipment /10                     2,800     2,800     2,800     2,800      2,800      --                                                 _- _                                      -
Interest (Loan)                  15 589    15 589   14          13,190    11,993    10.792      9.572     8,393     7,194      5,994     4,795      3 596     2,396  _   1/97
Subtotal                        74553)       ,         ,464    25,125    26,324    30,323    31,543    35,722    36 9-1 3I,121    39,320               1    41,719 4918          44,1f
Taxes (46.6to)                      --       2,963     8,607    11,708    12,267    14,131    14,699    16,647    17,205    17,764    18,323    18,882    19,441    20,000    20,558
Net Operating Income                 (4,553)    3,396     9,862    13,417    14,7    16,           6844    19,075    19,716    20,357    20,997                  22,278    22,918    23,557
B.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:          18%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs +10%:         15%
operating Costs  +10%:          13%
Gross Revenue    -10%:         10%
/1  260 trailers x 18 T x 86 voyages x 417.1 TL/t x (year 1-49%, year 2-557, year 3-62%, year 4-15-65%) utilization.
46 crew and officers x 104,OO TL/year includes salaries, benefits, vacation, sul'sistence, ,3tc.
Food, small equipment and consumables used on board ships.
Masintenance, repair, Lloyd expenditures, dockyard dues 0.5s0 of ships' cost.
Insurance 34 of ships' cost.
Administrative costs TCL.
Fuel - Main Engines 13,760 hr/yr x 7,800 BHP x 0.16 kg/sHP/hr x 1,200 TL/T = 20,607,000 TL
Generators   29,240 hr/yr x 675 BHP x 0.16 kg/BHP/hr x 1,140 TL/T = 3,600,000 TL
Lube - Main Engines 1,128 T/yr x 1,500 TL/T = 1,692,000 TL
Generators   134 T/yr x 1,500 TL/T = 201,000 TL
Water- 12 Tons/day x 330 day x 10 TL/T = 39,600 TL
L  Annual maintenance ship trailers
15 years straight line.
0  5 years straight line (ship trailers to be phased out after 7 years).                                                                                                                  0H



APPRAISAI OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Model: Boll-on/Roll-off Ferryboats
C. Projected Cash Flow
(IL '000)
Y E A R
1         2         3         4         5         6           7        o         9        10         11        12        13        14         15
Inflow
Gross Revenue ,                  81,839    92,751   103,662   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109o,18
TCL contribution                 11,200            --        --        --        --        --              --        --        --             --                   --
Government Grant L               43,400       --        --        --        --        --         --        --        --        --        --         --        --        -- 
Long Term Credit                183,400       __        -_        __        _         __         __        _         __        __        __         __        __        __
Total                        319,839    92,751   103,662   1o9,118   109,11    109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,118   109,11    109,118   109,118 109,118         109,118
Outflow
Operating Expenses               53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    53,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070    50,070
Investments                     238,000      --         --        --        --        --        --         --        --        --        --         --        --        _ 
Taxes                              --       2,963      8,607    11,708    12,267    14,131    14,699    16,647    17,205    17,764    18,323    18,882    19,441    20,000    20,558
Debt Service
Interest                        15,589    15,589    14,390    13,190    11,991   10,792        9,592     8,393     7,194     5,994     4,795      3,596     2,396     1,197       --
Principal                                 14- 11     14,110 1            1         1         14,110    14,110    14 140 1                        1                                --
Total                        306,659    85,732    90,177    92,078    91,438    92,103    91,47       89,220    88,579    87,938    87,298    86,658    86,017    85,347    70,628
Net Inflow                          13,180      7,019    13,485    17,040    17,680    17,015    17,647    19,898        539    21,180    2          22,460    23,101    23,771    38,490
Depreciation                        17,733    17,733    17,733    17,733    17.733    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933    14,933
Incremental Cash Flow              (209,231)   36.718    41,985    44,340    43,781    41,917    41,349    42,401    41,843    41,284    40,725    40,166    39,607    39,048    41,29OL1
D. Projected Itnvestment
Quantity                                Year 1
Local    Foreign     Total
--------TL '000.-----.----
RO/RO Ferryboats /3                           2                           __     224,000   224,000
Tractors /4
On-Ship                                    6                           445      1,040      1,485
In-Ports                                  2                            150        340        490
Ship Trailers /
On-Ship                                  250                           775      1,800      2,575
In-Ports                                520                          1,545      3,605      5,150
Pallets                                 12,450                          1,245       --        1,245
Miscellaneous Equipment                     __                          2,355        __       2,355
Technical Assistance /6                                                              700        700
Total                                                                6,515    231,485   238,000
/1  260 trailers x 18 T x 86 voyages x b-17.1 TL/t x (y^ar 1-49X, year 2-55'g, year 3-62t, year 4-15-654) utilization.
Government to allocate TL 43,400,000 from budget for ferryboats.
Two used or resale Roll-on/Roll-off ferryboats with capacity of about 130 ship trailers (18T) or equivalent tonnage over-the.road trailers - DWT 2,500 to 3,500 tons.
Self propelled tractors to pull ship trailers on and off ferryboat.
Four wheel trailers with load capacity 18T.
76  To obtain services of expert to evaluate used or resale ferryboat offers and to assist in establishing RO/RO facilities in Turkish ports.
Include TL 2,800,000 ship salvage value.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Supporting Services and Training Programs
A. Background
1.        Two Government agencies would be involved in extending technical
assistance to agroindustry subborrowers: the Project Unit (PU) of the Ministry
of Agriculture and TCZB. A single agency, the Supervised Credit Division of
TCZB would implement the Supervised Credit Program (SCP), and another agency
the Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari (TSF) would carry out the beef fattening com-
ponent. Finally, the Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL) would carry out the ferry
boat operations. Aside from the specific responsibilities for implementing
project components which TCZB shares with the respective project agencies,
TCZB as Turkey's major agricultural credit institution would also be respons-
ible for subloan evaluation, based on financial analysis, loan appraisal and
administration.
B.  Project Coordination
2.        Coordination between the implementing agencies would be carried out
by a Project Coordinating Committee. The terms of reference for the Project
Coordinator are given below:
(a) TCZB staff member with university degree in business admin-
istration, economics, agricultural economics or other rele-
vant discipline; 10 years experience in development financ-
ing of which 5 in managerial position.
(b) While maintaining his TCZB position, his functions in the
Committee would be coordinating day-to-day implementation
of the projects between PU, TSF and TCZB. He would
raise all matters requiring high level interagency resolu-
tion to the Project Coordinating Committee through the
Secretary of the Committee.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
C.  Needs for and Scope of Technical Assistance
3.        Four areas have been identified in which technical assistance would
be required. The following table gives a summary of the main features of
the proposed technical assistance program.
Purpose and Main              Project  Project   Man-        Cost per Source of
Features of Supporting        Compo-   Agency    Months of man-       Funds/
Services                      nent      Involved  Expert    month    Executing
Services  (US$)    Agency
(a) Assistance to TCZB to-
wards institutional       TCZB as
improvements              a whole    TCZB        78     5,000    IBRD/TCZB
(b) Training TCZB/SCP staff  SCP         TCZB        72     5,000    UNDP/FAO /1
in farm management, farm
loan appraisal and moni- -
toring impact of SCP
loans
(c) Training technical staff Agroin-    PU           84     5,000    UNDP/UNIDO/1
in business management,  dustries
marketing and engineer-
ing
(d) Advising and training    Agroin-    TCZB        141      6,000    IBRD/TCZB/PU
engineers and finan-      dustries
cial staff of TCZB & PU in
preparing and evaluat-
ing subloans for agro-
industry investment,
and, if required, prepar-
ing second-stage project
Total Man-_onths                                375
/1   The UNDP Resident Representative in Ankara has indicated availability of
UNDP funds for two projects for the training project staff. Under the
proposals now being formulated, UNDP/FAO and UNDP/UNIDO experts would
carry out the tasks listed in (b) and (c), respectively. Because these
UNDP projects have not finalized, Bank financing of these items is pro-
visionally provided under the project. If such projects are eventually
approved the designated Bank funds would be cancelled.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
D. Assistance to TCZB Towards Institutional Improvement
4.        TCZB would obtain the services of consultants to assist in under-
taking studies of key problem areas, with a view to institutional improve-
ments. The consultants would also help in implementing the recommendations
emanating from the studies. Because of the variety of skills needed, it will
be necessary to employ a consulting firm which can draw on professional ex-
pertise in organization, management accounting, financial planning and devel-
opment lending.
5.        The assistance program is expected to be carried out in two phases:
(a)  Analysis and recommendations:
i.   6 man-months of a bank management specialist
ii.   6 man-months of a credit specialist
iii. 6-man-mouths of an accounting specialist
(b) Implementation:
1.   30 man-months of a system analysis specialist
ii.   30 man-months of an accounting specialist
6.        Following discussions, the Turkish authorities have indicated that
the following subjects would be included in the abovementioned studies:
I.   Practices and procedures of lending operations, including
project appraisal and implementation:
(a) application of latest methods of economic and financial
evaluation to the appraisal of agroindustries projects;
(b) criteria and methods for updating economic and financial
evaluation of projects during period of project implemen-
tation until start-up of project operations;
(c) methods of evaluation to be applied in appraisal of super-
vised agricultural credit projects;
(d) alternative methods of analysis on more comprehensive
basis of economic and financial viability of projects for
which investment loans are made by TCZB, including aspects
of income generation and cash flow;



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(e) alternative types of loan security; and
(f) loan supervision and collection procedures.
ii.   Organization and management:
(a)  prixciples for the general administration of TCZB;
(b)  assignment and coordination of functions among departments
of TCZB; and
(c) management principles for administration within departments.
iii.   Accounting plans, principles, systems and procedures as effective
instruments of management:
(a) financial analysis of TCZB's annual balance sheets and profit
and loss accounts to determine TCZB's creditworthiness;
(b) techniques and procedures for portfolio evaluation;
(c) further development of data bank created by TCZB's Method
and Research Department, including methods of data collection
and retrieval; and
(d) methods of classification, analysis and presentation of data,
including use of operations research, as tool for decision-
making by TCZB's managers.
iv.   Operational and financial management and planning, including long-
term planning and control of pperations, and long-term projections
of financial requirements and resources.
v.   Research methods and procedures.
E. Program for SCP
Objectives
7.        The training program aims at upgrading the competence of SCP staff
of TCZB as required for effective implementation of this component. While
staff performance has been remarkably good during the formative stages of these
cre4it activities, there has been substantial turnover especially among the
agricultural engineers (Annex 3). Under the project, SCP activities would be
expanded and broadened to cover new provinces and to include more target group
farmers among the beneficiaries. The training program is essential to meet
the challenge of this new dimension.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Areas of Emphasis
8.        The training would concentrate on:
-    farm management, including relevant technical knowledge;
-    public relations and agricultural extensioni and communication
techniques;
-    loan appraisal techniques based on farm plans, farm budgets
and cash flow analysis;
-    monitoring and evaluating the impact of SCP loans.
Scope
9.        The training would be pragmatic.  Although including courses and/or
fellowships for management level staff (super engineers and branch managers)
it would be oriented to the needs of SCP field staff, including the village
credit agents required for implementing the SCP short term credit program.
It would concentrate on:
-    Pre-service training for new staff;
-    in-service training for experienced and new staff;
-    training fellowships for selected management, supervisory
and training staff.
Technical Assistance Requirements
10.       Technical and financial assistance from UNDP/FAO, as tentatively
agreed with the UN Resident Representative, would include the following expert
services:
Man-Months
Farm credit                                             30
Farm management                                         24
Short-term consultants as needed                        18
Total for FAO as executing agency                       72
Further details on this technical assistance component are in Annex 3.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Terms of Reference
Farm Credit Expert
11.  (a)  University degree in agricultural agroeconomics, agriculture or
agricultural engineering; 10 years professional experience in
preparation, evaluation and supervison of agricultural credit
projects, a considerable part of which should have been acquired
in developina countries.
(b) Assist TCZB's SCP Division in preparing a training program for its
supervisory staff, including SCP technicians and agricultural
engineers, Branch managers and Headquarters staff responsible for
SCP activities as well as village credit agents to be selected
for implementing SCP's short-term credit program. Provide formal
and in-service training to SCP supervisory staff in preparation,
appraisal and supervision of SCP supported projects as well as
in monitoring and evaluating the impact of SCP loans.
(c) 30 man-months.
Farm Management Expert
12.  (a)  University or higher technical institute degree in agricultural
engineering or agriculture; 10 years' professional experience
in farm management and agricultural extension, a considerable
part of which should have been acquired in developing countries.
(b) Provide formal and, especially, in-service training in farm
management, including subject matter knowledge, and agricultural
extension techniques to TCZB's SCP supervisory field staff (agri-
cultural technicians and engineers) as well as to village credit
agents.  Assist TCZB in assembling and analyzing relevant farm
management data, in preparing farm plans and cash flow projec-
tions as a basis for farm loan appraisal. Together with the
credit expert and TCZB staff, prepare manuals for staff guidance
in farm loan appraisal and supervision.
F. Training Program Agroindustries for PU
Objectives
13.       The program would aim at upgrading and strengthening the capabilities
of PU and TCZB staff to assist subborrowers in preparing applications eligible
for TCZB subloans.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Areas of Emphasis
14.       The program would concentrate on the following topics:
-    provision of raw materials including arrangements with producers
and marketing firms to ensure full utilization of installed
capacity;
-    analysis of domestic and export market prospects for agro-
industry products and by-products;
-    engineering analysis, including plant location, process
selection, plant design, preparation of tender documents,
technical specifications and bid evaluation:
-    economic and financial analysis of subprojects, including cash
flow projections, financial planning of fixed investment and
working capital requirements and rate of return calculations;
-    business management techniques, including marketing, cost
accounting, inventory control and quality control;
-    monitoring and evaluating the impact of agroindustry investments.
Scope
15.       The program would have a practical orientation and would include:
-    pre-service training for new staff;
-    in-service training;
-    training fellowships.
Technical Assistance Requirements
16.       Technical and financial assistance from UNDP/UNIDO, as tentatively
agreed with the UN Resident Representative, would include the following ex-
pert services:
Man/months
Training Program for PU
Business management and marketing                 36
Engineering                                       24
Economic and financial analysis and
planning                                        24
Further details on this technical assistance component are in Annex 4.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Terms of Reference
Industrial Engineer
17.  (a)  University degree in process engineering; 10 years' professional
experience in food processing and agroindustries, a considerable
part of which should have been acquired in developing countries.
(b)  Assist PU in preparing feasibility studies and subloan applications
with a view to all engineering aspects including the provision
of raw materials, location of plants. process selection, plant
design; train PU staff in these matters and prepare them, in
turn, to help entrepreneurs and cooperatives prepare technically
viable agroindustry projects.
(c) 24 man-months.
Financial Analyst for PU
18.       (a)  University degree in business administration or economics; 10
years' professional experience in financial and economic analysis
and planning of industrial projects, part of which should have
been acquired in developing countries.
(b)  Assist PU in economic and financial analysis of subborrowers'
projects; train PU staff in economic and financial analysis
and planning, applying modern methods such as cash flow
projections, internal rate of return calculations, and
sensitivity analyses.
(c) 24 months.
Business Management and Marketing Expert
19.       (a)  University degree in business administration or economics; 10
years' professional experience in business management in agro-
industrial enterprises including marketing of agroindustrial
products, a considerable part of which should have been ac-
quired in developing countries.
(b) Assist PU in evaluating the marketing aspects of feasibility
stuidies and subloan applications; compile and keep up-to-date
relevant statistical information to enable PU to advise
entrepreneurs of market prospects and marketing techniques
and assist PU in advising subborrowers (including cooperatives)
on other matters of business administration as a supporting
measure to loan supervision, especially providing consulting



ANNEX 7
Page 9
assistance to subborrowers in accounting, cost accounting,
inventory control and organization. Train PU staff in the
fields mentioned above.
(c) 36 months.
G. Consulting Services to TCZB and PU for Agroindustries
20.       Engineering services for 141 man-months would be provided by a con-
sulting firm experienced in food processing and agroindustries. The consult-
ants who would be engaged by TCZB would help evaluate feasibility studies and
subloan applications, write functional specifications, evaluate suppliers'
bids, review construction progress and start-up operations and approve accept-
ance of facilities. The assumptions for the man-months requirement estimates
are listed below:
Project Cost/Plant                        Above US$2 Million Below US$2 Million
(I of Plants                                      15                  20
Man Months Requirements/Plant
(a) Evaluating feasibility studies and
subloan applications, writing
functional specifications and
evaluating suppliers' bids                    3                   2
(b) Reviewing construction progress
and approving acceptance of
facilities                                    2                   1
If required, the firm would also provide to TCZB and PU technical assistance
for preparing a second-stage agricultural credit project. An agricultural
credit specialist experienced in project preparation would be required (6
man months).



APPRAISAL OF
ANNEX 8
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                      Page 1
Detailed Project Costs and Phasing
Number of Subprojects                                   Total Costs
...,    ..... .Year ......... ......          ..   ,   ,   ,   Year .
1        2        3        Total                1          2           3          Total
Integrated Farm Developunt:                                                               ..       .. TL Million.
Citrus Orchards                       45        50       55         150
Base Costs                                                                           1.13       1.27        1.39          3.79
Price Contingency                                                                     .21         .38        .59          1.18
Subtotal                                                                           1.34 1.65 4.97
Glasshouses                            15       15       20           50
Base Costs                                                                           1.78        1.78       2.38          5.94
Price Contingency                                                                     .39         .64       1.23          2.26
Subtotal                                                                           217        242         3.61o.20
Plastic Greenhouses                    45       50       55          150
Base Costs                                                                           2.19       2.44        2.68          7.31
Price Contingency                                                                     .           .81       1.27          2.5S
Subtotal                                                                           2.64       3.25        3.95          9.84
Plastic Tunnels                       250      350      400       1,000
Base Costs                                                                           4.26        5.97       6.82         17.05
Price Contingencies                                                                   .76       1.68        2.70          5.14
Subtotal                                                                           5.02       7.65        9.5T2 22.9
Farm Mechanization                     45       50       55          150
Base Costs                                                                           5.33       5.92        6.51         17.76
Price Contingencies                                                                   .88       1.53        2.34          4.75
Subtotal                                          6                                           7455                      22.51
Apple Storage                          90      100      11o          300
Base Costs                                                                           9.45      10.50       11.55         31.50
Price Contingencies                                                                  2.04       3.-6        5.78         11.50
Subtotal                                       14                                             9 1        17.33         43.00
Cattle Fattening Barns                 90      100      110          300
Base Costs                                                                          11.93      13.25       14.58         39.76
Price Contingencies                                                                  1.98       3.43        5.25         10.66
Subtotal                                                                          13.91      1           19. 3         50.42
Egg Production                        100      110      120          330
Base Costs                                                                          20.30       22.33      24.36         66.99
Price Contingencies                                                                  3.37        5.78       8.77         17.92
Subtotal                                                                          23.67      28.1        33;13         o491T
Other Investments not Covered
by Models
Base Costs                                                                          27.46      27.46       27.46         82.38
Price Contingencies                                                                  4.56        7.11       9.89         21.56
Subtotal                                                                          32.02      3457                     103.94
Total Integrated Farm Development                                                         98.47      115.96     135.55         349.98
Short Term Lending                     3,600    4,800     6,ooo      14,400
Base Costs                                                                          13.14       17.52      21.90          52.56
Price Contingency                                                                    2.18        4.54       7.88         14.60
Subtotal                                                                          15.32       22.06      27
Ferry Boat                                 1                              1
Base Costs                                                                         U19.0O        -                       9.00
Price Contingencies                                                                  J      O9             z.4.20
Sub total                                                                                                               3 T20
Supporting Services
Vehicles for TCZB Branches            50       50        50         150
Base Costs                                                                           5.60        5.60       5.60          16.80
Price Contingencies                                                                    .93       1.45       2.02           4,40
Subtotal                                                                                 7.53  70-5       7.62 



AmRM 8
Page 2
Detailed Project-Costs and Phasing
Number of Subprojects                                    Total Costs
............. Year ...................,........... Year.
1        2        3        Total                1           2         3           Total
............. M Million ..........
Agroindustries
Tomato  Paste Plant                     1        1        0            2
Base Costs                                                                          27.75       27.75        -            55.50
Physical Contingencies                                                               2.65        2.65        -             5.30
Price Contingencies                                                                  5.50       11.10        -            16.60
Subtotal                                                                          35.90       41.50 go77.0
Citrus Concentrate                      0        1        0            1
Base Costs                                                                             -        26.97        -            26.97
Physical Contingencies                                                                -          2.70        -             2.70
Price Contingencies                                                                   _          8.32        -             8.32
Subtotal                                                                            -        37.99         -            37.99
Olive Oil                               1        1        2            4
Base Costs                                                                           4.25        4.25       8.50          17.00
Physical Contingencies                                                                 .22        .22         .43           .87
Price Contingencies                                                                    .Bo       1.26       3.55           5.61
Subtotal                                                                           5.27        5.73      12.8           23.48
Slaughterhouse                          0        1        1            2
Base Costs                                                                            -         39.01      39.01          78.02
Physical Contingencies                                                                _          5.08       5.08          10.16
Price Contingencies                                                                   _         12.76      17.93          30.69
Subtotal                                                                                      5_5        602
Feed Mill                               0        1        0            1
Base Costs                                                                                      28.94        -            28.94
Physical Contingencies                                                                -          2.46        -             2.46
Price Contingencies                                                                   _          8.30        -             8.30
Subtotal                                                                            -         39.70        -             90
Cold Store and Packing House            2        2        3            7
Base Costs                                                                           52.30      52.30      78.45         183.05
Physical Contingencies                                                               5.69        5.69       8.54          19.92
Price Contingencies                                                                  6.15        9.84      14.94          30.93
Subtotal                                                                          64.14        .        101.93         233.90
,rape Juice Concentrate                 0        1        0            1
Base Costs                                                                             _        47.08        -            47.08
Physical Contingencies                                                                 -         4.81        -             4.81
Price Contingencies                                                                    -        15.31        -15.31
Subtotal                                                                                       77.20       -            67.20
Other Investments not Covered
by Models
Base Costs                                                                         145.71      145.71     145.69         437.11
Physical Contingencies                                                              14.57       14.57      14.56          43.70
Price Contingencies                                                                 31.82       51.12      72.45         155t39
Subtotal                                                                         192.10      211.40     232.70
Total Agroindustries                                                                     297.41      528.21     409.13       1,234.75
Livestock Fattening                   2,700    2,700      2,700       8,100
Base Costs                                                                         154.23      154.23     154.22         462.68
Price Contingencies                                                                 2560        39.94      55.53         121.07
Subtotal                                                                         17         14.17       209.75         5T3.75
Consultant Services (man months)    l1*         136       131        375
Base Costs                                                                           7.91       10p.14     10.00          28.05
Price Contingencies                                                                  1.82        3.85       5.44          11.11
Subtotal                                                                           9.73       I.79       T
Total Supporting Services                                                                  16.26      21.04       23.06         60.36
Total Project Costs                                                                       7049       881.93       807.28    2?90



APPRAISAL OF
ANI 8
AN AGRICLTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT             Chirt
TURKY
ProJect Implementation Schedule
Projected Annual_Rubloan Approvals of TCZB
-----------     ill-ion)-
- Integrated Farm Development  /2                                         86 =_
Short Term  L                                                    .    ,               26
Agroindustries  13
Cattle Fattening  12                                                     D /2 9'
rerry Bost  /4
Supporting Servicesi
Vehic-Bank Approval of Tender
-Award of Contract
i  --------- (Man Monthslof Expert seriel-5*r^~~~
Consultants to TCOB for Studies
SCP:  Training
- Farm Credit Specialist
- Farm Management Specialist
* Short-Term Consultants
Agroindustries:  Training
- Business Management and Marketing Specialist                                  -
- Sngineering Specialist                                                                     -I
- Economic and Financial Analysis Specialist
Agroindustries:  Technical Assistance                                 !                             14
TZ'ZB:                      '
Program of ImprovementL 2
/I   Commitment of the Bank loan is exoected to beoin from October 1, 1976 (the start of "year 1"), assuming
that the loan become& effective by September 30, 1976
L2  The phasing of subloan approvals is estimated as follol's:
Year           1        2        3          4
Integrated Parm Development       500     1100    1300        700
Short Tere                       1700     4ooo    55Cc       3200
Cattle Fattening                 120o     2600    2700       160o
/   A typical agroindustry processing facility is expected to follov the schedule below:
_  Identification of subproject                                          11/76
_  Technical approval of subborrower's investment pLan                    2/77
-  TCZB's preliminary approval of subborrowerys creditworthiness          2,77
-  Preparation of functional specifications and tender documents          7/77
Bank approval of tender (for subloans above $1.5 million)              8/77
-  Award of contract                                                     L2/77
- Beginning of construction                                                /78
-  CDmpleti=n of construction                                             3
I4   Expected to be retroactive financing
Z:  Presentation of a program of improvement--within 12 months of loan effectiveness






APPRAISAL OF
AS AGRICTLTURAL CRII AND AGROIINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Projected Statement of Receipts and Disbursements
During the Life of the Proposed IBR) Loan
(In TL million)
,Ye  a.e                            a          r ..... .     ....... ......., ........srs
1       2        3        4        5        6        7       8        9       10        U L     L2       13       14       15        Totals
Sources of Funds
1. T     dsn Resources                              28.7    140.4                                                                                                                  169.1
2. Government
(a) Turkish Sugar Factories (TSF)      18.7    18.7       18.6                                                                                                                  56o
(b) For Ro/Ro Vessel                   21.0                                                                                                                                     21.0
(c) For Supporting Services /1                             0.8     0.8      0.8      1.5    1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5        17.4
3. Withdrawals from IBRD Loan  7E         155.0   176.0    284.3  181.0         85.7                                                                                               882.0
4. Interest Income from Loans
to Subprojects for:
(a) Supervised Credit Program
- Conventional Investment Loans     4.8    10.7       17.3   17.1       15.2    12.7   10.3       7.9      5.7      3.9      2.6      1.6      o.8      0.3      0.1       111.0
- Conventional Short Tem Loans      2.1      6.3      12.1   14.4       14.1    12.9   11.7    10.2        8.4      6.2      3.7      1.8      o.4      0.1                104.4
- Short Term Loans                           1.7       3.9    7.0        6.6     6.6    6.5       6.4      6.3      6.2      6.1      0.9      o.4                          58.6
(b) Agroindustries                              15.2      56.9   94.8    110.9   106.4   90.7    75.3    59.7    44.7    29.5    14.6              3.5                         702.2
(c) Cattle Fattening                    6.2    13.4       21.8   21.8       21.8                                                                                                85.0
(d) Ro/Ro Vessel                        6.5      6;5       6.5    6.3        5.7      5.2    4.6      4.1      3.5      3.0      2.5      1.9      1.4      0.8      0.3        58.8
5. Subborrowers' Loan Repayments
(a) Supervised Credit Program /3
- Conventional Investment           2.0      7.0      13.7   17.3    17.3       16.8   i6.8    14.6    12.1         8.8      7.2      5.7      3.3      1.9      0.5       145.0
- Conventional Short-Term          10.7    34.o       76.5  107.5   124.4    125.4   l4.0   101.2    86.1    68.1    47.9    26.5    10.9               2.7                935.9
- Short-term /4                             12.3      29.0   51.7    50.0       49.8   49.o    48.2    47.4    46.7    45.9           8.5      3.7                         442.2
(b) Agroindustries                                                20.7    76.7    io8.0  108.0   i08.0   108.0   108.0   108.0    87.2    32.6                                 865.2
(c) Cattle Fattening                  105.8   228.?    370.4  370.4   370.4                                                                                                  1,445.3
(d) Ro/Ro Vessel                                 9.0       9.0    9.0       9.0       9.0    9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.6               1u17.6
Total Expected Receipts               332.8   570.5   1,061.2  919.8   908.6    454.3  422.1   386.4   347.7   306.1   263.9   159.2    67.5   1b6.9    2.4                  6,219.4
Uses of Funds
6. Loans Disbursed for Subprojects
(a) Supervised Credit Program
- Conventional Investment          42.4    48.4    57.3                                                                                                                    148.1.
- Conventional Short-Term          24.4    66.6   120.8   134.7   128.9         118.8  106.7    91.2    73.0    51.5    27.9    10.7                                       955.2
- Short-Tem                        15.3    34.3    58.8    51.7    50.0          49.8   49.0    48.2    47.4    46.7                                                       451.2
(b) Agroindustries                             155.1   393.0   274.4    42.7                                                                                                   865.2
(c) Cattle Fattening                  105.8   228.3   370.4   370.4   370.4                                                                                                  1 ,445. 3
(d) Ro/Ro Vessel                      117.6                                                                                                                                    117.6
7. Supporting Services L5                  10.5    13.7    17.2                                                                                                                     41.4
8. Direct Financial Expenses
(a) Commitment Fee on IBRD Loan         3.8      5.0      3.0      1.3      0.2                                                                                                 15.3
(b) Interest on IBRD Loan               8.9    19.1    40.7    60.7    72.4          72.4  67.2      61.6    55.4    48.7    41.4   33.5          24.9    15.5    5.3          627.7
9. Repayment of IBRD Loan                                                                59.o  64.0      69.6    75.6    82.2    89.3   97.1    105.6   114.7  124.9               882.0
Subtotal (Project Disbursements)    330.7   570.5  1,061.2   893.2   664.6    300.0 286.9    270.6   251.4   229.1   158.6  141.3    130.5   130a2. 130.2                 5,549.0
10. Return of TCZB Contributions to
General Operations                                            26.6   i42.3                                                                                                 169,
Total Expected Disbursements       330.7   570.5  1,061.2   919.8   807.1    300.0  286.9    270.6   251.4   229.1  .158.6  141.3    130.5   130.2  130.2                  5,718.1
Excess (Deficit) of Yearly Receipts
over Dlisbursements                2.1                               101.5    L5' .3  135.2    115.8    96.3    77.0   105.3   17.9    (63.0)  (113.3) (127.8)            499.2
Accumulated Cash Balance             2.1      2.1      2.1      2.1   103.6    257.9  393.1    508.9   605.2   682.2   787.5  805.4    742.4   629.1  501.3
/1  Refund for payments to expatriate experts, consultants and village agents
2 Withdrawn at an assumed time lag of 3 months after TCZB sub-loan disbursements
Time lag loss for collections of SCP loans:  80% repaid as scheduled, 10% - 1 year delay, 8% - 2 years delay, 2% losses.
SCP short-term credits outstanding 12 months
Acquisition of vehicles for supervisors as well as payment for expatriate experts, consultants and village agents and for additional engineers
and technicians to be engaged for SCP field supervision



ANNEX 10
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
US$ Million
Bank                                             Cumulative                  Outstanding
Fiscal Year           Disbursements             Disbursements                Balance at
and Quarter           During Quarter            At End of Quarter            End of Quarter
1977
Dec.  31                 6.9                        6.9                       56.10
March 31                 1,19                       8.09                      54.91
June  30                 1_49                       9.58                      53.42
1978
Sept. 30                 1.50                      11.08                      51,92
Dec,  31                 1.79                      12.87                      50,13
March 31                 2.41                      15.28                      47.72
June  30                 3.54                      18.82                      44.18
1979
Sept. 30                 4.83                      23.65                      39,35
Dec,  31                 5.33                      28.98                      34.02
March 31                 5.69                      34.67                      28.33
June  30                 4.93                      39,60                      23,40
1980
Sept. 30                 4.36                      43.96                      19.04
Dec.  31                 3.98                      47.94                      15.06
March 31                 3.40                      51,34                      11.66
June  30                 2.94                      54.28                       8.72
1981
Sept. 30                 2.60                      56.88                       6.12
Dec.  31                 2.38                      59.26                       3.74
March 31                 2.09                      61.35                       1.65
June 30                  1.65                      63.00                       0.00



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.        The economic rate of return for each project component and for the
whole project were calculated by aggregating the representative models de-
scribed in Annexes 3, 4, 5 and 6, and adding the costs of supporting services.
2.        In the Supervised Credit component, the models 1-8 (Annex 3, Tables
6-11) cover 70% of the total investments for integrated farm development. Sim-
ilarly, the agroindustries models cover 49% of the contemplated investment costs.
It is assumed that the remaining investments would have similar benefit-cost-
ratios as the investments covered by the models. To arrive at the full amount
for each component, therefore, the sums of all input and output values are
divided by 0.70 and 0.49, respectively.
3.        In calculating the rates of return, world market prices were applied
where appropriate. Labor was shadow priced according to the marginal output
foregone.
4.        To convert local costs and benefits into foreign exchange equivalents,
various conversion factors have been applied. The corresponding shadow ex-
change rates vary between TL 16.7 to 17.3/US$ as compared to the official ex-
change rate of TL 14/US$.
5.        For the agroindustry plants, it is assumed that there is approximately
a six-month lag between incurring operating costs and the derivation of benefits
resulting from them. In the financial analysis, this has been taken into account
by including interest on seasonal credit in the operating costs. To reflect
adequately this six-month lag in the economic analysis, two calculations have
been made: one with a non-lagged benefit stream and another with a benefit
stream lagged by one year. The rate of return for the agroindustry component
is then the average of computations with lagged and non-lagged benefit streams.
6.        Further information regarding assumptions for the benefit and cost
streams of each project component is given in Tables 1-4.
7.        The results are presented below:



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Project Components
Supervised    Beef        Agro-       Ferry-   Total
Credit    Fattening  Industries    boat   Project
_____________________%------------------------
Economic Rate of Return         52       Very high/l      19          33      36
Sensitivity/2:  Cost + 10%      36       Very high/i      16          25      30
Benefits-10%   35       Very high/i      16          25      29
/1   There is a 100-120 days lag between the purchase date of the feeder and
the sales date of the fattened cattle.  Computed on a yearly basis, the
net benefit stream is positive each year, so that the rate of return is
not defined. If computed on a 4-months basis, no unique rate of return
can be found. However, the statement "very high" can be verified by
computing the rate of return for a one-year operation only, which would
be over 60%.
/2   Since the agroindustries sector is in a rather strong bargaining position
vis-a-vis agriculture, the conventional sensitivity analysis appears too
pessimistic. It is more likely that a reduction of sales will result in
a similar decrease in the purchase prices of raw materials. Therefore,
when benefits are reduced by 10%, it is assumed that the raw material
costs are reduced by the same percentage. In any case, raw materials
have been excluded from the cost sensitivity test and included with
benefits in the benefit sensitivity test.



APPRAISAI, OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Price Assumptions for Agricu].tural Pro.Ject Components
A. Inputs
Conversion Factor for Covertirg
Direct Foreign Exchange               Domestic Prices into
Commodity                                         Unit              Cost %              Price      Border Prices
Fertilizer                              TL/ton urea equivalent           100
Feed Grain                              TL/ton barley equivalent         100               /1              -
Tomatoes                                TL/ton                              0           1, 75      Consumption (0.836)
Apples                                  TL/ton                              0           1,500      Consumption (0.836)
Hired Labor, Skilled                    TL/man-day                          0               70     Labor (0.821)
Hired Labor, Unskilled, Developed
Areas                                TL/man-day                         0               5      Labor (0.821)
Hired Lahor, Unskilled, Less
Developed Areas                      TL/man-day                         0                30     Labor (0.821)
Family Labor, Citrus                    TL/man-day                         0                70     Labor (0.821)
Family Labor, Developed Areas           TL/man-day                          0               32     Labor (0.821)
Family Labor, Less Developed Areas    TL/man-day                            0               18     Labor (0.821)
B. Outputs
Foreign Exchange
Commodity            Earnings %            International Price       Domestic Price        Conversion Factors
ff7tonT               (TL/ton)
Wheat                       100/1                   /2
Barley                     100o1                    72                     -               C
Citrus                      25                      72                   1,600             Consumption (0.836)
Early Tomatoes               25                   5,100                  5,100             Consumption (0.836)
Early Cucumnbers             25                   3,200                  3,200             Consumption (0.836)
Stored Apples                50                   3,000                  2,000             Consumption (0.836)
Beef                          0                                             /2             Consumption (o.836)
Eggs (TL,"OOO)                0                     -50                                    Consumption (0.836)
Cull Birds (TL/bird)          0                     -                        20            Consumption (0.836)
Manure                     100/1                    /2                      _              Consumption (0.836)
Straw                      10071                    Z2                      -
_-  _--
1 Import substitution
Z2 Prices are expected to vary over project period.  See Table 5.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
TURKEY
Price Assumptions for Agroindustries Project Components
A.  Inputs                     Conversion Factor for Converting
Commodity                   Foreign Exchange Cost %              Price                Border Prices
Tomatoes                                0                         600 (TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Citrus                                  0                         700 (TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Grapes                                  0                       1,000 (TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Apples                                  0                       1,500 (TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Non-Fruit Products                      0                       2,000 (TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Other Fruits                            0                       2,500 (TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Olives                                  0                           /1 (TL/ton)       Intermediate(O.810)
Beef                                    0                           71(TL/ton)        Consumption (0.836)
Mutton                                  0                           71 (TL/ton)       Consumption (0.836)
Hired Labor, Less Developed Areas       0                          50 (TL/man-day)   Labor (0.821)
Hired Labor, Developed Areas            0                          70 (TL/man-day)   Labor (0.821)
Hired Labor, Technicians, etc.          0                         150 (TL/man-day)   Labor (0.821)
Hired Labor, Experts, Management        0                         300 (TL/man-day    Labor (0.821)
B. Outputs
Conversion Factor for
Commodity                     Export (%)     Exprt Price (TL/ton)    Domestic Price (TL/ton)    Local Consumption
Tomato Paste                      50                 10,500                       9,800             Consumption (0.836)
Citrus Frozen Concentrate        100                 10,220
Essential Oil                    100                 56,000                         _
Fodder                             0                   -                            900             Intermediate (0.810)
Grape Concentrate                100                  9,240                         -
Grape Pulp                         0                   -                            900             Intermediate (0.810)
Olive Oil Grade A                 50                   /1                            /1             Intermediate (0.810)
Olive Oil Grade B                  0                   -                             71             Intermediate (0.810)
Olive Cake                         O                   -                             00             Intermediate (0.810) ~    .
Packed Apples                    100                  3,000                 
Stored Apples                     75                  3,000                       2,000             Consumption (0.836)
Stored Non-Fruit Products          0                   -                          2,800             Consumption (0.836)
Pre-Cooled Fruits                100                  3,500
L1  Prices are expected to var,y over project period.  See Table 3.



APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROLCT
TURKEY
Assumptions for Prices Varyin    Over Time
Calendar Year:  1976           1977          1978             1979           1980-84         1985-95
Project Year:     1              2            3                14              S-9            10-20
--------_____________--TL/ton----------          - - - --- - - - -
Wheat                        2,5bO            2,490         2,470           2,430            2,1470          2,520
Barley                       1,790            1,740         1,740           1,710            1,680           1,680
Lemons                       2,900            2,860         2,860           2,860             2,86o          2,860
Olive Oil Grade A           12,520          12,040         11,420          11,100           10,8140         11,420
Olive Oil Grade B            3,760           3,600          3,430           3,330            3,250           3,430
Olives                         250             241            228             222              217             228
Beef                        16,300           17,190        17,610          18,110            15,570         21,620
Sheep                       17,270          18,700         19,690          20,270           21,840          24,240
Urea                         3,820           3,190          2,420           2,120            2,140           2,400
IZ >
co Z:
crZ



}ANNEX 11
rable 4
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT A.ND AGROIINWUSTRIE PROJECT
TURKEY
Estimates of ProJect Benefits and Costs
~~~~~~~~T                 l         .. . . . ......       ,,,.... ... .. .. .  ..... .. ... ..
1        2           3          4           5          6           7           8           9
Benef its                                                                                                              -
SuPervised Credit Program         34.69     104.23      182.34     214.36      218.16     224.26      222.83      223.53      224.12
Agroindustries A                    -        75.59      550.40   1,451.25    2,336.08   2,751-52    2,783.75    2,783.75    2,783.75
Beef Fattening                    67.50     137.05      202.50     204.66      219.89     219.89      219.89      219.89      219.89
Ferryboat                         55.45      62.47       69.82                  73-50     3.                      3,306     3,301.2
-otal  15  7 7    71,05.06   1,943.62    2,87763   _,29.17    3,299.97    3,300.67    3,301.26
Costs
Supervised Credit Program         78.90     131.81      182.50     139.31      141.18     149.30      149.03      156.26      150.96
Agroindustries                   159.04     512.68    1,014.22   1,691.77    2,282.47   2,348.97    2,355.62    2,352.63    2,343.95
Beef Pattening                    18.25      35.75       53.68      53.35       52.70      52.70       52.70       52.70       52.70
Ferryboat                        152.32      35.63       37.32      38.17       38.17      38.17       36.99       36.         36.92
Total                          5        1T2T      1,287.72   1,922.60    2,54.2    ,559.14        24
Net BenefDits                      (250.87)   (336.53)   T282.66)    21.02        333.11     680.03      705.63     70X.09       716.66
YEAf          _        _                    _
........................... M ......................................    .............. ..T- . . . . ...............
II3  1           12          1-3         LL        -15-          16          172        1U5        _a_         PO
228.44     228.84      229.13      229.40      229.31      229.96      229.96      229.96      229,96    229.96      229.96
2,785.38    2,869.86    2,952.70    2,952.70    2,952.70    2,952.70    2,952.70    2,952.70    2,952.70  2,952.70    2,952.70
243.11     243.11      243.11      243.11      243.11      243.11      243.11      243.11      243.11    243.11      243.11
73 so ~~0             7         Vk 5,7RQo
-3,328.8-   3,415.31    3 498.44    3,498.71    3.499.12                3,425.77    3,425.77    3,425.77 34 ,5.77    3,425.77
150.85     149.49      148.55      149.65      141.39      150.29      156.97      160.48      154,64     142.48      141.39
2,483.99    2,578.03    2,736.26    2,579.79    2,480.38    2,480.35    2,485.35    2,492.00    2,489.01   2,480.35    2,480.35
52.70      52.70.      52.70       52.70       52.70       52.70       52.70       52.70       52.70      52.70       52.70
3629       3           36.9 9             2;7T9.                       T3 29  9  3 2  -  - 
604.27      598 10     523.94      679.58      787-69      778.94      730.75      720.59      729.-42    7524        751.33
/1   ggelof a               lryxijaa5n1~  MO ntsag tgtwei    e   costS and benefits, this now represents an average



C                       -
kt~~~~ 4
z~~~~~~~~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~
<,.~~~~rW
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                  W
0   j                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~IMf
N  ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     0C~9
K'                     \\  C>        ~      i-*~4z
J o      4                   2f
f-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
N.  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAUR 197



