Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1816-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY
WITH THE t,UARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
April 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1         =       TL   16.001'
TL  1         =       US$ 0.0625
TL 1,000         =       US$ 62.50
TL 1,000,000         =        US$ 62,500
Turkish Fiscal Year = March 1 to February 28
1/ Appraisal Report is based on a rate of exchange of
US$1 = TL 14.00; as a result of several recent
adjustments the rate stood at US$1 = TL 16.00 as of
April 2, 1976.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF
TURKEY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Agricultural Bank of Turkey with the Guarantee of the Republic of
Turkey for the equivalent of US$63 million to help finance an agricultural
Credit and Agroindustries Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Turkey in November 1974 and
its report (No. 711a-TU) entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Turkey" dated June 9, 1975, was circulated to the Executive Directors on June
17, 1975. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        Despite an uncertain domestic political situation resulting in fre-
quent changes of Government since 1971 and, more recently, the international
recession, Turkey has maintained an impressive rate of economic growth. GNP
grew rapidly in the last decade, averaging an impressive 7 percent annual
growth in real terms in the period 1962-72. Industry, power, transport and
construction were the sectors contributing most to this growth rate. Due
largely to a decrease in agricultural production reflecting poor weather con-
ditions, the growth rate dropped to 5.5 percent in 1973, but recovered to 7.4
percent in 1974, and reached an estimated 7.9 percent in 1975, compared to the
Third Plan (1973-77) target of an average of 7.9 percent per annum.    Despite
some difficult problems that the economy faces, this relatively high growth
rate underlines the basic vitality of the Turkish economy.    The main issues
facing the Government, which require the establishment of priorities as well
as of corrective measures, are: (a) high rate of inflation; (b) insufficient
mobilization of public resources; (c) employment generation problems; (d)
deterioration in the balance of payments; and (e) inadequate coordination
among Government agencies in project implementation (discussed in para 14
below).
4.        The budgetary situation in the last decade was dominated by the
relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Although tax revenues also
grew rapidly, the increase was more than offset by the rise in Government
expenditures and transfers. As a result, the overall budget defic:it widened
and the Treasury borrowed increasingly from the Central Bank. In 1972 and
1973, the Treasury introduced a stricter control of current expenditures and
succeeded to some degree in shifting the sources of finance for the budget
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



deficit from the Central Bank to the sale of Government bonds to the public.
However, partly due to a shortfall in tax revenues and partly due to increased
current expenditures resulting from inflation and the Cyprus operations, the
budget deficit rose again in 1974 to TL 7.3 billion (compared to TL 5.4 bil-
lion in 1973). Central Bank financing of the Treasury rose by TL 4 billion
and became a major factor in monetary expansion at a time when stricter mone-
tary controls were needed. The deficit in 1975 was originally estimated at
TL 9 billion, but is likely to be significantly larger.
5.        Over the years, the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) have general-
ly earned low profits, necessitating an increase in budgetary transfers from
public resources to meet their operating and investment needs. A significant
portion of the SEEs' deficits are accounted for by the Turkish Railways and
the Coal Corporation. Other SEEs have shown either small profits or small
losses. During 1974, the prices of several SEE products were raised sub-
stantially (ranging from 20% to 167%) to improve their respective financial
situations. In addition, railway tariffs were increased by an average 56 per-
cent in 1975. The savings performance of the SEEs showed some improvement in
1973 and 1974, and they were able to finance an increased proportion of their
investment from their own resources. However, because of delays in implement-
ation - resulting from poor managerial and limited technical capabilities - and
because of difficulties in the procurement of imported materials, the gains are
still below Third Plan targets. Consequently, many SEEs continue to rely on
substantial budgetary transfers. The reform of the SEEs--in organizaticn,
management, executive and labor skills and pricing policies--remains crucial,
especially if Turkish industry is to be prepared for competition from the ECC.
Realistically, these basic reforms can only be initiated by a strong and stable
Government which commands significant and coherent parliamentary support.
6.         The rate of domestic inflation has been high in recent years.     The
average rate of increase in wholesale prices rose from about 20 percent per
annum in 1973 to nearly 30 percent in 1974. Inflationary pressures have been
partly fueled by growth in domestic liquidity, which averaged about 25 percent
per year during 1970-74. Other contributing factors include increases in
agricultural support prices for domestic and export products as well as in
minimum wages, and substantial increases in import prices. Measures to re-
duce the growth of domestic liquidity, without discouraging investment and
growth, are essential to ease inflationary pressures. The trend towards
rapid increases in Central Bank financing of the public sector needs to be
reexamined. In late 1974, the Government raised interest rates to encourage
private savings and long-term lending. The interest rate on medium-term
credit was raised from 12 to 14 percent and rates on time deposits up to one
year from 4 to 6 percent. The present government of Prime Minister Demirel
regards the restoration of domestic price stability as one of the key prob-
lems on which Government policy must be focused. There has in fact been a
significant reduction in the rate of inflation in the last year. The whole-
sale price index rose by only 11.0 percent in 1975 compared to 30 percent in
1974; and the Government estimates an average rate of inflation (as measured
by their GNP deflator) of only around 16 percent in 1975, compared to 27
percent in 1974.



- 3 -
7.        Turkey's development strategy places greater emphasis on growth
of output through higher labor productivity, than on increased employment. As
a result, the labor surp:lus, including that in agriculture, rose from an esti-
mated 1 million in 1962 t:o 1.6 million in 1973, representing about 10 percent
of the labor force. Until 1973, emigration, especially to Germany, partially
eased the pressure on employment. Between 1965 and 1973, net emigration
totaled about 450,000. 'The economic slowdown in Europe has, however, consider-
ably reduced labor emigration from Turkey, from 136,000 in 1973 to only 20,000
in 1974 and 5,000 in 1975. Nevertheless, the Third Plan continues to emphasize
investment in capital-intensive industries and estimates the non-agricultural
labor surplus to grow to 300,000 by 1977.   With prospects of further elnibration
of Turkish labor to Europe reduced, at least in the medium--term, unemployment
should be a major concern of economic policy.   A pilot land reform program is
currently underway in Urla province in the southeast where most of the larger
farms are located; expropriation of land was started in November 1974. Speedy
implementation of rural development programs would also help to slow migration
and ease unemployment in rural and urban areas. In addition, labor intensive
production methods need ro be emphasized, where appropriate, in the formulation
of projects.   However, even with these measures, and faster growth- th-.
planned in construction and services, unemployment is likely to remain a
significant problem.
8.        The Third Plan constitutes the first phase of Turkey's long-term
strategy for the period [973-95. The ultimate objective is to raise stand-
ards of living in 1995 to those of Italy in 1970, through rapid industraliza-
tion and decreasing dependence on external resources. The Plan aims at an-
nual growth rates of 8 pesrcent in GDP, 12.7 percent in fixed investment,
a marginal national savings ratio of 38 percent (compared with about 18 per-
cent in the Second Plan), an annual increase in commodity imports and exports
of 9.4 percent and 7.1 percent respectively, which, taken together with pro-
jected growth in invisibLe earnings (mainly workers' remittances), is ex-
pected to result in a decline in gross inflows of official external assistance.
9.        Prospects for continued high economic growth remain good, although in
view of the shortfall of the first two years of the Third Plan, achievement of
the 7.9 percent average rate of annual growth during the Plan perLod seem un-
likely. The Plan's projections also seem to be overly optimistic on prospects
of an increased savings Level and balanced external accounts with reduced
levels of external assistance. Experience during the last two years suggests
that present efforts to mobilize greater domestic savings to support a rapid
growth of investment, especially in the public sector, need to be greatly
intensified. The Plan aaticipates that two-thirds of the increase in national
savings will come from the public sector, through increases both in surpluses
of the SEEs and in-tax revenue. Given the past performance of SEEs and delays
in implementing a general reform in the SEEs (see paragraph 5 above), the
expected rapid growth in their surpluses is not likely to be realized. Given
the present domestic political outlook, it will also be most difficult to raise



- 4 -
tax revenues to the extent envisaged by the Plan. There is nevertheless scope
for increases, if appropriate policies are pursued more vigorously, e.g. im-
proving tax administration, widening tax coverage to include agricultural
incomes and service incomes, increasing the rate of property taxation and
introducing a value added tax. Domestic resource mobilization in the public
sector is, in any case, likely to continue to be a significant constraint in
the growth of public investment. Besides improved financial performance from
the SEEs, increased borrowing abroad as well as increased long-term borrowing
from the domestic private sector will be necessary to achieve the ambitious
public sector investment targets. As Turkey's development program requires
funds in excess of savings that can be maobilized domestically, and tnese cannot
be provided in adequate amounts if foreign finance is limited to foreign
exchange cost of high-priority projects, some local cost financing by foreign
lenders will be required.
10.       The balance of payments projections of the Plan have not taken into
account recent developments on the international scene. The sharp increase
in the price of petroleum and other imports during 1974 and the prospects of
further increases in import prices in the next several years, indicate that
foreign exchange needs for financing imports will be much higher than projected.
Commodity imports and exports in 1973 were already above the level projected
for 1977. Workers' remittances in 1972 were higher than the 1977 target and
continued to grow until recently. However, they decreased by 8.0 percent in
1975 as compared to 1974, and their future is uncertain, due to the temporary
restriction on furthcr entry of foreign workers iLto iLLe aiajor iabor-importing
countries of Europe. On the other hand, recent agreements between Turkey and
Libya to send Turkish workers to Libya, and the possibility of similar arrange-
ments with other oil-producing countries, should help alleviate the situation.
11.       After substantial surpluses in 1972 and 1973, Turkey's overall bal-
ance of payments experienced a deficit in 1974, with net reserves declining
by about $360 million. This was due partly to a sharp increase in the trade
deficit and a slowdown in the growth of workero' remittances, as well as to a
reduction in official capital aid inflows. The large trade deficit resulted
mainly from an 80 percent increase in the import bill (in particular, petro-
leum, wheat, iron and steel), due mainly to higher prices. Imports continued
to rise at a rather rapid rate in 1975, and totaled about $4.7 billion during
the year. On the other hand, export earnings, which totaled about $1.4 bil-
lion in 1975, registered a decline because of the recession in major importing
countries, agricultural supply constraints, restrictions on exports to relieve
domestic shortages, relatively inflexible export pricing policies, diversion
of some goods to Cyprus, and deteriorating terms of trade. As a result, gross
reserves declined to about $1.8 billion at the end of 1974, and further to
about $1.0 billion at end of December 1975 (the equivalent of about 2.7 months
of imports at the present rate). In the medium-term, Turkey's balance of
payments is likely to come under significant presure. Such pressure could,
however, be partly eased, by lifting quantitative restrictions on certain ex-
ports, e.g. cement and olive oil, designed to accommodate domestic supply.
The Government should also avoid fixing commodity prices at levels above those



prevailing in international markets. Even more important are deliberate
measures to contain the growth of imports. Without such measures, and in the
absence of a resurgence oE growth in Europe, Turkey faces the prospect of
continued, perhaps intensLfied, pressures on its balance of payments and its
reserves. In May 1974, the Turkish lira was revalued vis-a-vis the dollar from
TL 14.00 per US$ to TL 13.50 per US$, wizhout a change in parity with other
currencies. In September 1974, the exchange rate per US$ was readjusted to TL
13.85, and in April 1975, it was restored to the previous parity of T'L 14.00.
As a result of subsequent small devaluations, the rate per US$ stood at TL
16.00 as of April 2, 1976.
12.       At the end of 1974, total external debt outstanding and disbursed
was estimated at $3.1 bilLion, of which all but 3 percent was public or pub-
licly guaranteed. The share of the Bank Group was about 11 percent of total
debt outstanding and about 8 percent of total debt service in 1974. The aver-
age terms of new credits maade available to Turkey have been hardening in
recent years, and this trend is expected to continue. Debt service as a
ratio of exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances
was about 6.5 percent in 1974, compared to 12 percent in 1971. Despite
the deterioration in the balance of payments in 1975, the debt service ratio
is expected to remain within acceptable limits in the medium term, if proper
policies are pursued. In view of the decline in foreign reserves and anti-
cipated pressures on its balance of payments in the medium-term, Turkey should
continue to exercise considerable care in its external debt management, and
its resort to suppliers' credit financing should also be kept within closely
monitored limits. Meanwhile, Turkey continues to be creditworthy for Bank
financing.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
13.       The 1970 econom:ic stabilization program (see para 11 above) and
devaluation of the Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, en-
abled Bank Group lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be es-
tablished on a continuing basis at a high level. As of February 29, 1976,
the Bank Group has lent $1,085.2 million to Turkey through 44 lending opera-
tions (or 39 projects, sirnce both loans and credits were provided for some
projects), of which $1,001.2 million is outstanding. Fourteen of these
operations have been in agriculture and rural development (including multi-
purpose), sixteen in industry (including DFCs), eight in power and the rest
in urban development, transportation, and education. Agriculture and rural
development account for 28 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
37 percent and power for about 26 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 29,
1976 respectively, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Imple-
mentation of projects has been satisfactory in the private sector, but less
so in the public sector where significant delays have resulted from political



- 6 -
uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies, staffing problems and
related administrative delays. Disbursements have consequently been slower
than expected. To improve this situation, the Government established in
August 1975, a ministerial coordinating committee, supported by a new
secretariat located in the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for
coordinating all aspects of Bank Group operations. In connection wich this
new framework, the Government and the Bank initiated in June/July 1975, joint
quarterly reviews to identify and resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfac-
tory project implementation. The results so far have been encouraging,
considering that these reviews were initiated only a few months ago, and the
rate of commitments and disbursements in the last few months has begun to
improve.
14.       A serious issue continues to beset the Elbistan power project (Loan
No. TU-1023).   As a condition of effectiveness of the loan, the Government had
undertaken to raise electricity tariffs by about 30 percent in order to enable
the power authority (TEK) to earn the 8 percent rate of return prescribed by
the TEK law and set forth in Loan Agreements with the Bank. Because of
serious inflationary pressures faced in 1974-75 and in recognition of the
Government's anti-inflationary policies, agreement was subsequently reached
on a lesser tariff increase that would enable TEK to earn 6 percent in 1976 as
a transitional measure. Since the Government has not yet implemented the
requisite measures, the Bank has not been able to declare the Elbistan loan
effective. The Bank is in close consultation with the Turkish Government on
this issue, as well as with its co-lenders for the Elbistan project.
15.        Bank lending to Turkey is mainly directed at supporting Turkish ef-
forts to improve: (a) lagging public sector saving, through gradual improve-
ment in the SEEs; (b) better income distribution and improvement in the level
of living standards, through rural development efforts, better urban planning
and increased employment and incomes; and (c) long-term capacity to earn fo-
reign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agroindustrial exports
and tourism. While the Bank continues to support gradual institutional and
structural changes in the sectors in which lending is provided, continued
substantial external financial assistance is equally important, in view of
the increase in projected capital import requirements and the anticipated
medium-term pressures on the balance of payments and on overall fiscal re-
sources, mentioned in paragraphs 9-11 above.
16.        In support of these objectives, it is proposed to continue to devote
the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors, of which agriculture
is the most important. In this sector, emphasis is being put on rural develA
opment, livestock and the strengthening of agricultural credit mechanisms, as
provided for under the proposed project. Industry (including mining and DFCs)
and power, where the gradual strengthening of the SEEs is the key task, are
also receiving significant support. This program will be supplemented by
future projects in selected sectors including urban development, tourism and



- 7 -
transport.  Until recent]y, Bank lending was also focused in two geographical
areas:  (i) the Istanbul region, with emphasis on urban planning, water
supply, power distributicin and industrial finance; and (ii) the CukLrova
region around Adana on the southern coas.t, with emphasis on power, irrigation,
and fruit and vegetable production.   Lately, the focus has been gradually
broadened, especially to include the Anatolian plateau and eastern lurkey, in
support of efforts to widen the geographical base of development, develop
rainfed agriculture, improve the distribution of income, and discourage rapid
urban migration and encourage tourism development. The latter will be sup-
ported through the proposed tourism infrastructure project in the south
Antalya coastal area likely to be ready for Board consideration at the end of
FY76. Also being prepared for Board consideration in FY76, is the proposed
Balikesir newsprint manufacturing project, and a Third Livestock Development
Project focused on the dairy subsector. Other projects under preparation and
being processed towards appraisal include wastewater disposal in Istanbul, a
hydroelectric project, a second DFC operation with the State Investment Bank
(DYB), and a second railways project.
17.       IFC has invested in the production of nylon yarns, pulp and paper,
glass, aluminum and steel pipes. As of February 29, 1976, gross commitments
totaled $118.1 million, o,- which $70.8 milion were still held by IFC. IFC
is currently investigating investment opportunities in the industrial sector,
including textiles, synthetic fibers ana inorganic chemicals.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SUBSECTOR AND THE BORROWER
Introduction
18.       A detailed discussion of Turkey's agricultural sector is contained
in the report entitled "The Economic Develoment of Turkey, Volume III: Major
Social and Economic Sectors (316a-TU)", dated April 22, 1974.
19.       Although its share of the economy is declining, agriculture remains
a crucial sector in Turkey. In 1974, it contributed about 26 percent of GDP,
60 percent of commodity export earnings, and employed about 63 percert of the
labor force. Turkish agriculture is predominantly rainfed and is characterized
by significant regional diEferences. Rainfall is inadequate and unr-eliable.
Most irrigated agricultural development has taken place on the coast, the
wealthiest area. The high, semi-arid central Anatolian plateau and eastern
highlands, where the majority of the rural poor live, produce mainly cereals
under dry-land conditions, and livestock.
20.       Turkey's major crops include cereals (mainly wheat and barley), in-
dustrial crops (such as cotton, tobacco, sugar beets and oilseeds), and fruits
and vegetables. The livestock subsector contributes about one-fifth of the
total agricultural value ac'ded, but its expansion has been steadily decreas-
ing in recent years as large areas traditionally under meadows and pasture have



- 8 -
been turned to cultivation, mostly of cereals. There are some resources in
forestry and fishing, but their contribution to agricultural production is,
and will remain, relatively minor. Growth of value added in agriculture aver-
aged a compound rate of about 4 percent from 1969 to 1974 as a result of sub-
stantial increases in the use of fertilizer, mechanization and irrigation
during the Second Plan period. Productivity per unit of land also improved
gradually, but was largely confined to the export crop sector (cotton and
sugar beets) and was not matched by comparable increases in per capita food
production.
Government Agricultural Strategy
21.       Turkey's Third Plan (1973-77) aims at an average annual growth rate
in agriculture of 4.5 percent, based on a strategy favoring investments in
projects with short gestation periods and low capital-output ratios, supported
by a price policy balanced between incentives for farmers and protection for
consumers, strengthened agricultural research, extension and marketing serv-
ices, and adequate credit allocations. This strategy appears to be appro-
priate, but negative growth (-1.6%) in 1973 and 1974, caused by adverse
weather conditions, is likely to result in an overall growth rate of only
about 3 percent for the Plan period.
Agricultural Credit
22.       To meet its planned objectives, the Government has used the Agri-
cultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) as its major instrument for transferring
substantial financial resources to stimulate agricultural growth in general,
and has fixed different lending rates to stimulate the development of selected
agricultural sub-sectors. Institutional credit thus channelled by the Govern-
ment to the agricultural sector accounted for 18 percent of the increase in
total outstanding bank credit between 1963 and 1971. Despite this substantial
increase, there has not been sufficient credit made available to farmers for
production purposes. Half of Turkey's 3.1 million farm families still do
not appear to have access to institutional credit, in particular the small
farmers. The Government has also used TCZB as a channel to implement its
price support programs, which are administered by marketing cooperatives.
In addition, wealthier coastal and irrigated areas have benefitted more than
the Central and Eastern Anatolia dry-lands where a large portion of small
farmers live. Small farmers have generally been considered uncreditworthy,
largely for lack of definite land title or other traditional loan security.
Increasing and broadening the availability of agricultural and agroindustrial
credit, and improving the basis for its delivery, constitutes a major oppor-
tunity for contributing to the development of the agricultural sector as
a steadily expanding source of output, income and foreign exchange earnings.
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
23.       TCZB is a State Economic Enterprise (SEE) under the Ministry of Com-
merce, and Turkey's largest bank. It accounts for more than one-fourth of
total national deposits through its commercial operations and for over 90 per-
cent of the institutional credit to agriculture. In continuous operation for



- 9 -
over 120 years, it is a major developmental force in Turkey and enjoys rela-
tive autonomy in operations; but despite its major contributions, it has be-
come subject to a number of critical, though correctible, weaknesses. In
recognition of this situation, TCZB has agreed to include, as one of the key
features of the proposed project, a program of improvement of TCZB's opera-
tions, financial planning, and resources, to be prepared by TCZB and to be
submitted to the Bank within 12 months after effectiveness of the proposed
Loan, and thereafter to be promptly implemented (Section 4.01(e) of the
draft Loan Agreement). In addition, TCZB will hire consultants by the end of
1976, to assist TCZB's Research and Project Evaluation Divisions to study and
carry out improvements in various special problem areas of TCZB's functions
covered by these two divisions (Section 4.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The following paragraphs discuss some of the difficulties TCZB has been facing
as a major agricultural financing and development institution and solutions
that are underway or are being sought.
24.       Financial Structure.   Until the first of a series of financial
reforms described below was initiated last year, TCZB's financial structure
had for several years been gradually weakened as a result of a small and
static equity base, a steady rise in borrowing, and the appearance of signif-
icant arrearages in its loan portfolio. Historically, deposits from private
and public sources constituted the most important sources of funds for TCZB.
However, since 1973, most of TCZB's incremental reosurces have come from
Central Bank rediscounting facilities (to which TCZB has privileged access),
drawn on to provide credits to agricultural marketing cooperatives for com-
modity price support. TCZB's small equity base thus dwindled relative to
liabilities. Total equity of TL 2,069 million as of end 1974, was comprised
of paid-in capital of TL 1,172 million, reserves of TL 327 million and accrued
net profits of TL 570 billion. TCZB's auhtorized capital ceiling, as set by
legislation, is only T]J 1.5 billion, to which Government has not contributed
since 1969. For a decade, TCZB's lending grew at a compound annual rate of
about 22 percent, and as of the end of 1974, its loan portfolio stood at TL
36 billion. Of that arnount, over TL 5 billion was affected by arrearages in
1974. Over half of these arrears were owed by marketing cooperatives (see
para 22), and were incurred particularly during the period of rapid price
increases in 1973 and 1.974, during which cooperatives faced difficulties in
marketing their stocks., which have now reverted to normal levels.
25.       In 1975, however, TCZB's financial situation was significantly im-
proved as a result of new legislation providing for the consolidation of many
categories of public sector debts. As a result of implementation of this law,
TCZB's debts owed to the Central Bank as of the end of 1974, in connection
with the Government-financed credit programs for credit and marketing coope-
ratives channeled through TCZB, have been reduced by TL 3.9 million, of
which a substantial portion represented arrears. In addition, the Government
and TCZB are acutely aware of the need to increase TCZB's capital. The
Government took action this year, as a result of which TCZB's paid-in capital



- 10 -
will be increased from TL 1,172 million to the authorized level of TL 1.5
million. In addition, the Government has indicated to the Bank its intention
to take all measures within its executive power to seek legislative approval
of an increase in authorized capital to TL 5 billion, an increase of TL 3.5
billion. The Government has also indicated its intention to take all further
steps necessary within its power, through its annual investment and financial
programs, including transfer of accrued profits and other means, to increase
the paid-capital of TCZB to the levels required for a sound financial struc-
ture. As a result of the measures already taken, as noted above, TCZB's
capital structure has been substantially improved, and implementation of the
Government's above-mentioned intended steps to increase TCZB's authorized
and paid-in capital, would enable TCZB to gradually achieve a more satis-
factory capital structure.
26.       Management and Staffing.   TCZB's chief executive is its General
Manager (who is also Board Chairman). Day-to-day management is handled by
four Assistant General Managers (two of them Board Members) and a Secretary
General. The latter is in charge of several units which are responsible for
the credit components of four Bank projects in which the Government is the
borrower and for wich TCZB is the channel. These are Livestock I and
Livestock II, Fruits/Vegetables Export and Corum-Cankiri Rural Development.
The Divisions wich currently handle the on-lending credit operations of these
four projects, and which will also handle the present project are: The
Encouragement and Development Division, the Project Evaluation Division, and
the Supervised Credit Program (SCP) Division. The Encouragement and Develop-
ment and Project Evaluation Divisions are responsible for technical and
financial evaluation of loans for agroindustries and farm develop.wi- ,,
excess of specified limits. They have a nucleus of qualified professional
staff arid th?  1ppr ;. 1 techniques they apply are generally acceptable, but
could be improved. Under the SCP, loans are granted to carefully selected
farmers who are required to operate under the guidance of TCZB's agricultural
technicians. It is a well-conceived program with satisfactory standards of
preparation and supervision of farm plans. The SCP Division is supported by a
field staff of about 230 qualified agricultural engineers and technicians in
43 of Turkey's 67 provinces. However, SCP has so far been able to benefit
only about 35,000 farmers because of limited resources, selective criteria
(land size limits and past loan repayment record) and high staff inputs.
27.       These three divisions constitute a promising group with the poten-
tial for further improvement. The core of their professional staff possess
adequate qualifications and experience, although there is need for training
to improve certain skills, in particular, appraisal techniques. In addition,
the structure of responsibility and decision-making of TCZB needs to be better
aligned with credit operations and greater authority delegated to operating
levels. Despite the shortcomings outlined above, TCZB has the capacity to
carry out the project; appropriate remedial measures in the areas proposed,
to be developed under the project, will considerably add to its competence as
a development institution.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
28.       The proposed project constitutes the Bank's first full-fledged agri-
cultural credit project in Turkey. The- Bank has lent for four agricultural
projects with the Government as the borrower, and TCZB playing a role in
channelling Bank funds to sub-borrowers for sub-projects prepared or assisted
by other agencies. The project was identified by the State Planning
Organization (SPO), TCZB and the respective technical agencies, with the as-
sistance of Bank supervision missions in May and July 1974, and a Bank prep-
aration mission in Ocl:ober/November 1974. Appraisal took place in April/May
1975. Negotiations were held in Washington in February and March this year.
The Turkish delegation was headed by Dr. Tayyar Sadiklar, Director General of
the Treasury, and included Mr. Neset Parman, Secretary General of TCZB. The
project details are provided in the Loan and Project Summary in Annex III and
in the appraisal report (No. 987-TU dated April 12, 1976) entitled "Appraisal
of an Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project", which is being sep-
arately distributed tc the Executive Directors.
The Project
29.       The major objectives of the proposed project would be to:    (i) raise
farm production and incomes of small- and medium-scale farmers through provi-
sion of supervised credit and cattle fattening loans; (ii) improve domestic
and export marketing through the extension of loans for agroindustrial invest-
ments, and through the purchase of a roll-on/roll-off (RoyRo) ferryboat;
(iii) strengthen the operations, financial planning, and resources of TCZB
through Government and TCZB actions, staff training and technical assistance;
and (iv) reduce income disparities by expanding credit operations to reach
target group sub-borrowers in the less developed central and eastern regions
of Turkey.
30.       Sub-lending under the Project will be extended through four separate
programs, outlined below:
(a)  Supervised credit:   Under this component, the project provides
for $24.8 million in sub-loans for medium- and long-term invest-
ments for integrated farm development and for short-term lending
for production inputs. $11.8 million of that amount would be
financed by the proposed loan. Sub-loans for medium- and long-
term investments would total $20 million, of which $9.5 million
would be financed by the proposed loan. These investment sub-
loans would be similar to those being financed under TCZB's on-
going SCP program for integrated farm development and would be
channelled through that program to about 4,000 farmers in 50
provinces. Sub-loans for production inputs would total $4.8 mil-
lion, of which $2.3 million would be financed by the proposed
loan. These sub-loans would be extended under a new short-term



- 12 -
SCP lending program, to be introduced under the project, designed
to broaden supervised credit availability to some 14,400 addi-
tional small farmers, of whom an estimated 75 percent would be
in the rural poverty target group.
(b) Cattle fattening: Under this component, the project provides
for $26.6 million in short-term cattle-fattening sub-loans, of
which $11.3 million would be financed by the proposed loan.
About 8,100 farmers, at least half of whom would purchase
less than 20 head of cattle, would benefit from these sub-
loans. About 60 percent of the sub-loan financing would be
used for purchase of feeder cattle, 40 percent for other in-
puts and expenses including feed. Monies allocated for this
project component would be onlent by TCZB, through means of a
revolving fund created for this purpose (a condition of effec-
of the proposed loan -- Section 8.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement), to the Turkish Sugar Factories Corporation (TSF),
which operates an existing cattle-fattening program, and which
will in turn sub-lend to eligible farmers to whom it has
provided technical assistance in developing and implementing
these fattening programs.
(c) Agroindustries: Under this component, the Project provides
for $61.8 million in sub-loans for financing various agro-
industrial investments, of which $28.8 million would be fi-
nanced by the proposed loan. Sub-loans would be extended
primarily for the following categories of agroindustry
facilities: handling of perishable commodities, associated
cold-storage, food procesing, and manufacture of farm equip-
ment, feed mills and other farm inputs. Sub-loans would be
made to private sector firms, cooperatives, and a few SEEs.
(d)  Roll-on/Roll-off ferryboat:    The proposed loan will finance
up to $6.9 million in foreign exchange (with the balance of
$1.9 million to be provided by the Guarantor and Turkish
Cargo Lines (TCL)) for the purchase by TCL (also an SEE) of
one ferryboat to help establish an effective integrated road-
sea fruit and vegetable Mediterranean shipping system to Italy
and Yugoslavia. The purchase of two ferryboats for this pur-
pose had been envisaged under a previous Bank project (Loan/
Credit 762/257-TU, Fruit and Vegetable Export Project). How-
ever, because of delays and subsequent price increases, the
funds originally provided proved inadequate and will be suffi-
cient only for the purchase of one ferryboat. Since two boats
are considered essential to maintain a viable ferry service, the
Bank has acceded to Turkey's request to finance the second boat
under the proposed project.



- 13 -
31.       Besides the aforementioned four programs, the proposed project also
provides $2.7 million in technical assistance and training for TCZB and the
Project Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture (para 33 below), which was
created in connection wii:h Loan/Credit 762/257-TU, Fruit and Vegetable
Export Project. In addition to the consultants referred to in para 23 above,
the funds would be used for consultants for training TCZB staff in farm
management, loan appraisal and supervision of SCP loans, for assisting the
Project Unit to provide engineering, marketing, and financial planning serv-
ices to agroindustries sub-borrowers, and for assisting TCZB and the Project
Unit in appraising and supervising agroindustries sub-projects. In addition,
$1.5 million would be provided to cover the costs of about 150 vehicles needed
to improve the mobility and effectiveness of SCP field staff. The Government
will bear 100 percent of the repayment obligation under this portion of the
loan related to the cost of training and technical assistance for TCZB and the
Project unit, and 50 percent for consultant services benefitting agroindustrial
subborrowers, who would bear the remaining 50 percent (draft Guarantee Agree-
ment, Section 2.02(a)(ii) and draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph
C(b)(r)).
Project Cost and Financing
32.       The estimated cost of the proposed project, based on 1975 prices
and including physical and price contingencies, is about $173 million, of
which $63.0 million or 36 percent is in foreign exchange. The proposed loan
would finance all foreign exchange costs. For the credit components, the Bank
monies will contribute on average about 35 percent of total project costs,
with TCZB financing 34 percent from its own resources, and the sub--borrowers
about 29 percent. The latter contributions have been established for each
component in accordance with consideration of availability of resources and
meaningful levels of participation by the sub-borrowers concerned. In the
event that financing for consultant services for training for TCZB/SCP and PU
staff (paragraph 31 above) is financed by UNDP, as is currently uncler consider-
ation by UNDP and the Government, then the amount of $1.04 million under the
proposed loan would be cancelled.
Project Implementation
33.       TCZB would be the executing agency, and would carry out the super-
vised credit component o.f the project (paragraph 30 (a) above). It would also
be jointly responsible with the Project Unit (PU) for preparing a second agri-
cultural credit project (see Appraisal Report, paragraph 4.13). The agroindus-
tries component would be -jointly implemented by TCZB and the PU, with the
latter responsible for evaluating sub-project proposals (paragraph 30 (c)).
TSF would be responsible f-or all technical aspects of the cattle-fattening
program (paragraph 30 (b)' and would accept repayment risk.    To permit repeater
operations in future years, TCZB would establish and maintain a special revolv-
ing fund for farmers' short-term loan repayments to TSF (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement). TCZB would on-lend loan funds to TCL for the ferryboat
component (paragraph 30 (d)). Division of responsibility among agencies
involved would be formalized in interagency protocols, whose execution and
delivery are conditions o01 effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 8.01(a)
of the draft Loan AgreemerLt).



- 14 -
34.       The technical and managerial competence of TCZB staff is satisfac-
tory for the current level of operations, but would be enhanced through
technical assistance, especially for sub-project preparation and evaluation
(paragraph 31). In an effort to broaden participation among small farmers,
TCZB/SCP staff would be expanded by about 50 agricultural engineers and/or
technicians per year for three years, beginning in 1976 (Section 4.01(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The PU staff is experienced in engineering,
marketing, and financial and economic evaluation and would benefit from
technical assistance (paragraph 31). PU's responsibilities would be broadened
under the proposed project to include sub-project preparation, technical and
economic evaluation and implementation of processing and marketing of fruits,
vegetables and related food products, and assistance to sub-borrowers for
cooperative marketing and processing investments.
35.       The success of the project would also very much depend on the ef-
fective coordination of policy and operations of the various implementing
agencies. Therefore, a project Coordinating Committee composed of senior
representatives of SPO, the Ministry of Finance, the General Directorate
of Agricultural Services (i.e., the Agricultural Extension Service), TCZB, PU,
TSF, has been established to facilitate interministry coordination on project-
related policy matters. The Government has agreed to maintain and operate the
Project Coordinating Committee until the completion of the project (Section 3.02
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). It is chaired by a senior representative
of the SPO. The Secretary-General of TCZB has been appointed Project Co-
ordinator, responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the project under
the general guidance of the Committee, and also serves as Committee Secretary.
The main functions of the Coordinating Committee are to: (i) formulate
guidelines for project implementation; (ii) monitor progress and resolve
obstacles to project implementation; (iii) supervise submission of progress
reports; and (iv) arrange for post-project evaluation.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
36.       As mentioned earlier, the Government uses specialized governmental
institutions such as TCZB as a channel for fiscal resources to stimulate the
growth of various sectors of the economy, including agriculture, to obtain
planned objectives. These institutions benefit from special rediscounting
facilities through the Central Bank and access to various sources of Govern-
ment funds. Interest rates do not, therefore, play as marked a role in
the allocation of resources in Turkey as they do in other market economies.
The rates are fixed as a matter of Government policy, to achieve the desired
sector goals established in Turkey's current Development Plan; within- the
agricultural sector, rates can also vary in accordance with objectives at the
sub-sector level.   The Government has thus provided TCZB with access to
substantial sources of public funds such as Government advances, Central Bank
rediscount facilities, official deposits and social security premiums. TCZB's
nominal lending rates, as fixed by Government vary, according to the type of
sub-sector activity concerned. The effective cost of its credit to sub-
borrowers, inclusive of the additional fees, commissions and taxes ranges from



- 15 -
8 to 14.1 percent. This allows TCZB an average spread of about 4 percent,
which has been adequate to cover its administrative expenses and risks, and
is acceptable under present interest rate relationships prevailing in the
country.
37.       The cost to the various sub-borrowers under the proposed project will
be 11 percent for SCP loans, and 14.4 percent for the agroindustries and
cattle-fattening programs. Since the ferryboat component essentially involves
financing provided to complete a procurement envisaged in an ongoing project
benefitting a public sector entity (for which TCZB is mostly used as a channel
with negligible expenses and risks), Bank monies will be onlent by TCZB to TCL
at the same interest rate as borne by TCZB (8.5 percent). The sub-borrowers
for both the ferryboat and the agroindustries component will also assume the
foreign exchange risk, thus raising the effective cost of creditV to them.
In view of the nature of the SCP and cattle-fattening operations, and the low
income of farmers who will significantly benefit from them, the Government
will assume the foreign exchange risks involved for these two components
(Section 3.08 of'the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Even with the reduced rate of inflation (see para. 6), the present
ceiling on interest rates in the sector merits adjustment. The Government
recognizes the desirability of ultimately achieving a positive real interest
rate structure. However, an abrupt change in the present complex financial
and interest rate system could be disruptive. To establish a sound factual
and analytical basis for a more responsive system of financial mobilizaton and
allocation in Turkey, the Government has initiated, with Bank assistance, a
broad study of the financial sector. The Bank is hopeful that as a result of
this study it will be possible for the Government to consider such changes in
the financial sector as the study might indicate, including adjustments in the
interest rate regime as appropriate.
Procurement and Disbursement
39.       International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines,
and under supervision of TCZB, would be carried out by the sub-borrowers for
agroindustries projects with an investment cost exceeding US$2 million. Since
the efficiency of such large processing facilities depends on the compatibility
of plant design, process flow and equipment, contracts for such facilities
would be placed on a single-contract basis with appropriate sub-contracting.
Procurement for agroindustries projects with investment costs under US$2.0
million would be made on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, Procurement of vehicles for TCZB would be grouped
into contracts with an estimated cost of the equivalent of US$250,000 or more,
and procured under international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers
would receive 15 percent margin of preference, or the actual leve]. of import
duty, whichever is less :in bid comparisons. The Ro/Ro ferryboats wcyuld be
purchased by Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL) under procedures in accord with common
practice in the maritime industry for purchase of used or resale ships. These



- 16 -
procedures, which provide for international competition, have been agreed by
Government, TCZB, TCL and the Bank in accordance with general specifications
and detailed procedures as set out in Annex 6 of the Appraisal Report.
Procurement of items for on-farm development and cattle-fattening would be
through existing commercial channels, which include wide representation of
both domestic and foreign suppliers of the goods required. The selection of
consultants for technical assistance to TCZB and PU would be in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for selection and-use of consultants.
40.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a five-year period,
against 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost up to $6.9 million for the
ferryboat (or the ex-factory cost in the case of local manufacture of ancillary
equipment of the ferryboat) and of the vehicles for TCZB, and 100 percent of
the total cost of consultant services for TCZB and PU. Disbursements would
also cover 47 percent of the conventional medium- and long-term sub-loans for
SCP, of incremental disbursements for short-term sub-loans for SCP and of
sub-loans for agroindustries; and 42 percent of incremental disbursements for
sub-loans for the cattle-fattening program.
Economic Justification
41.       Direct economic benefits of the project would arise from the incre-
mental production of major commodities such as wheat, barley, eggs, beef,
early vegetables, etc.., contributing substantially to production targets
outlined in the Third Five-Year Plan. At May 1975 prices, the total value
of incremental agricultural and livestock production at full development is
estimated at the equivalent of $33 million. It is anticipated that agro-
industries investments in storage and processing of fruits and vegetables
would generate a value added equivalent to $65 million at full development.
The major benefits of the proposed ferryboat investment would result from
saved- transport costs on 122,500 tons and increased exports of 7,500 tons of
fruits and vegetables annually. The boat would also help reduce spoilage and
increase export prices of fruits and vegetables through more timely and
reliable delivery. The project's incremental production would cause domestic
beef prices to increase at a slightly slower rate than that expected for inter-
national beef prices, and agroindustry investments would induce a slight in-
crease in the farm prices of those commodities involved, resulting in addi-
tional farm income. Net annual foreign exchange earnings resulting from
the project at full development are estimated at $65 million.
42.       The economic rate of return has been calculated at 36 percent on
total project investments. Rates of return 'for individual components are: 52
percent for supervised credit; 19 percent~ for agroindustry; 33 percent for the
ferryboat; very high for cattle-fattening (because of the short production
period). About 120,000 persons would be4efit from the project, most of them
in central and eastern Turkey where the pQtential for expanding grain and beef
production is fairly high. About 88 percent of the farmers benefitting
directly from the agricultural components would belong to the "target group"
(with less than $285 per capita income in 1975), and would receive 74 percent



- 17 -
of the loan amount. The project would generate over 15,000 man-years of em-
ployment opportunities during the investment period and over 7,000 annually
thereafter. Not includedl in rate of return calculations, are benefits to be
derived from improved resource allocation at the investment design level
stemming from strengthen:ing of the institutions involved, mainly TCZB and PU.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Loan Agreement between TCZB and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, the report
of the Committee providecl for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed separately to the Executive Diretors. The draft agreements
conform to the normal patterns for loans for agricultural credit and agro-
industries projects. Special conditions of effectiveness are: the submission
to the Bank of satisfactory interagency protocols defining the agreed division
of responsibilities between TCZB and the Agricultural Extension Service for
carrying out of the program of medium- and long-term sub-loans for SCP,
betweem TCZB and PU for the agroindustries program, and between TCZB and TSF
for the cattle-fattening program (including the operation of a special re-
volving fund); and the establishment of the Revolving Fund for the TSF fat-
tening program (Section 8.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
45.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 14, 1976






ANNEX I
Page I of 6 Pages
TAeLE 3A
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KR2Z)                                    -
- ------------ -                                TURKEY                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      7a0.6                                      MOST RECENT
ARABLE     379.6                       t960      1970   ESTIHATE          COLOM91A       IRAN           ItALY
GNP PER CAPITA (   )USS                  250.0      450.0       600.0             330.0       600.0     193.9
POPULATIID  AND VITAL STATISTICS
_- - - _ T  .. . .  --    ---   -   - 
pOPULATION ClMIOYR, MILLION)            27.5       35.2        37.9              21.6        Z9.1        53.6
POPJLATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        35.0       45.0       49.0               19.0        18.0      1 o.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND              ..         ..         5.o                 ..0
VITAL STATISTICS
C?UOE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         45.0   b   38.0 q      39.0              45.0        45.0        16.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         18.0 7E     30         13.0              11.0        17.0         9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       187.0 ab.c 145.0          ..70.                       140.0       29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        55.0       55.0        58.0              59.0        50.0        7 1.9
GRUSS REPqO OUCTIN RATE                2.9        2.6          ..               3.2         3.4         1.3
PO-ULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        2.5        2.5                3.2         3.2        0.e
JRAAN                                  5.5        4.5         5.5               5. 5        5.0
URB4N POPULATION (f OF TIOTiL)          32.0       39.0        39.0              60.o        '.1.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.3       41.8         ..               47.0        46.0/      24.'4
I TO 64 YEARS                        55.2       5 3.9        ..               50.0        500        65.?
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.5        4.3         ..                3.0         4.o7a      12.4
AOE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     D. a       0. 9         ..                1.0        I.          o.
ECONIMIZ OEP-NDENCY RATIO                1. 0       1.I          . .               1.7/c      1.9         O .9/a
FAMILT PLANNING-
ACEPTORS (CUMJLATIVE, TrOU)            0.0      484.0 a        ..             316.0       656 2.0 
.J;RS (I OF kARRIEO WOMEh)             5.3/e      8.2                                      10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANOS)        13000.0/f  14500.00    15000,.Oa          6200.0      97co.0    1960J.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGqICULTURE (2)          71.0       67.0        60.0               39.0       43. 109.J
UNE4PLOYFO (0 OF LABOR FORCE)            2.0&       4.0/f        ..                7.0        2.0         3.1
I[COME DISTRIRUTION
X JF P3IVAT: INCDRE RECDO af-
HIGHEST 5 OF POPULATION              33.0/a h   30.8         ..               31.9        Z. 2).L      .
HIGHEST ZO OF POPULATION             61.0 e.h   60.67        ..               60.1        5 4.4 4
LJWEST  20  OF POPJLATION              4.0 .      2.9h w       ..               3.5 4d 4.07b
LOWEST  40% OF POPULATION             I1.0e h     9 . 4I0.1                                12. r7.
DISTRIaUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X JWNE3 dr TOP 10 OF ONER!,              .        53.0          ..                ..          .
X OANED BY SMALLEST 100 OWNI RS           ..        0.9          ..
H ALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              3220.0/g    2220.0     2190.0            2160.0      33S0.0      550.a
POPJLATION PER NJRSING PERSOIN        3260.071   1880.o0A    1830.0             1040.0     3230.0      470.0'b
POUJLATION PER HOSPITAL BED            450.0      490.0       4S0.0             450.0       790.0       90.0-
PER CAPITA SUPP.Y OF
CALORIES (X OF REAUIREMENIS)          10.0      110.0       129.0              97.0        e6.0      12S.0
P?JTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              7R.O        78.0        91.0              51.0        5 3.0     10.J
-07 WAHIH ANIHAL AND PULSE            ..       22.0 i                        2. Z9Ol     14.0Lc     42.0
OEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.0 La       .05        ..                .. .0. .b
EOUCAT ION
ADJJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
P9IMARY SCHOOL                        TN.)      1I1.0          ..              95.0        62.0      107.o
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      15.0       78.C          ..              21.0        26.0       59.0
YEAAS OF SC-DOLINO PROAiO':
(FIRST AN) SEC9ND LEVEL)                . 0      11.0        11.0              11 .0       12.0       13. 
VOCATIO4AL ENROLLMENT
(Z OF SECONDARY)                      18.0       14.0        14.0              Z5.0L&       3.0       26.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (E)                 40.a 0      550          .- O..*
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               2.0        1.9          ..                ..         2.2/sd
OCCJPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER                           81.0       64.0          ..                 ..       e7.O/a.e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(Z OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  29.0       41.0         *-                  *-       25.0/a
RURAL OWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (0)                    2.0        18.0         ..                 ..         40/na
CONSURPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          49.0       89.0       106.0              105.0       93.0       2 1.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PoP:            2.0        4.0         6.0               11.0       10.0       190.0
ELECTRICITY (fWHWYR PER CAP)           102.0      244.0       304.0              414.0      246.0     2266.D
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.8        0.7         1.7               2.8         0.4         5.3
SEE NoTEs AND DEFINITIONS ON FEVERSE



Page 2 ~of  Pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Moot Recent Estimate to 1971-73.
a-e The long-term strategy of Turkish planning currently gives the 1970 level of Italy as ito objective.
TURKEy                   1960    /a  1955-60;    lb  Derived from sample survey estimates (9,700 households);     /c  Might be underestimated;     /6  Sore.el
and methods are different for 195560ad1567             /e! 1963;    /f  15 years and Over;         19;      /   Dpoal
income of households;    /i   Including sassittant nurses aud midwives;,  Z   Persozna aix years and over who tell the
census takers that they can, read and write.
1970    /a  Excludes 77 eastern provinces;     /b  1965-67;    Ic  Ratio of poPulation under 15 and 65 years and over to total labor
force;    /d  1964-June 1974, 86 percent boting 111le;_  Ie  15 years and over, excludes anmnploy.e;     If~ Registered only;
~A  Disposable income of houeholds;      lb  Includinmg assistant nurses and midwives;    /I  1966-66;    ZI  Personsa-n,x yeArs
and over who tell the census takers That toey can read and write.
MOST IECiO;T ESTIMATE:    /a  15 years and over, excludes unemp) eyed.
IX)LIMAIA               10970   /a   Rate based  on burial permits;    /b  1964-70;     Ic  Ratio of populat.on under 15 and 65 years ard over to total labor
force;    Id   Economically active population;    Le- Hospital personnel;     If~ 196h-66;  ~&    I-eluding teacher
training at the third leVel.
IRAN                    l1970    Ia  1966;    /b  Households (urban);    /c  1966-66;     /d  Excludes nomadic tribes;    /e   Inside only.
ITALY                   1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 years and over to total labor force;     lb  Hoolital personne',     Ic  Including rurel
hospitals and medical centers.
Rii  February 20, 1976
DEFIlirrIONS OP SCCI'J, INDICATORS
tedare     thuIs                                                                     Population per nureina person - Population divided hy cnumer of procti-
Tots;1  Tate; surfcae .rea cosaprising land area and ilanud waters.                     clog male and female graduate nurses , "trained" or "certified" cures,
Arablc   M ost recemi estimate of land area used temporar Ily or permanently           aod auxiliary personnel with training or experience,
for cultivation. naatures. asrket and kitchen gardess or to lie fallow             Population per hospital bed - Population divided by cooker of hospital
beds available in public and private genera; sand spacialiend hospi-
C.NP per capita . l     CNP percapita estimates at market prices, celcu-                tel and rehebilitatian centers; eseludee nuts leg homes and estsblish-
lbind by same conversion, method as World Bonk Atlas (19 72.44 heefs).               nents for custodial and preventive care.
per capita GoPplX of calria (. o f resuirements) - Computed from
fauialainad     ia     taitc                                                            energy equivalent of set foed supplies available in country per
Pop.l.tion (,id-yr. million) - do of July first: if not available, average              capita per day; available supplies comprise domestic production.
of twO end-year autime too.                                                           iportts les. expor,ts, and change  in stock; net sopplins ecclude
animal feed, seeds, quantities used in food processing and loses.
Poku1ation d nsit   - o    eae(0      Mid-year population per square kilo-              in distributiaon; requirements were eatina ted by PAO based on phy.i-
corer, (10,0 beccoYrco) cittlac.olagical needs for no-na activity and hesich considering enviro-
Popuetin desit  - pr auacekm  f arable lend - Computed as shon  for           mental temperature, body weights, age and sea distributions of
erable 1end only.                                                                     populstion, ead allowing 101 far Vesateat household level.
Per cApita supply of protein (garso par day) - Protein content of per
Vital. statistics                                                                       capita net supply of focd per day; net supply of food is defined as
Crude birth rate per thousand - smousl live births per thousand of mid-                 above; requIrements for all countries established by U(IDA Economic
yea  population; usually five-year -v-rg.s ending in 1960, 1970 sand                 R--soh lervice. provide    far a eioieama ulowonce at hi araus of
1975 far developing coustries.                                                      total protein par day, and 20 graea of animal and pulse protein, of
Crude death rate par thousend - Annual deaths per thousand of old-year                  wbich 10 graus should be sninal protein; these stendurda are lower
pupulotian, usually five-Test averages coding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 than these of 75 grans of total protein and 23 grams nf animal pr-
far developing noontries-                                                            teio so an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World
Infant mortality rate Urthou) - Annual desth. of infants under one year                 Food Survey.
of age per thousand lice birihs.                                                  Per cap ita protein s o.nie from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
the. enp.ctar.y at birth (yr.) - 'verage cnkmer of yerat of life remaic-                derived from animals and pulses in arena per day
ing at hirth, usualy fi-e-yor averages ending In 1960, 1970 sod                  Death rats i/thou) ages 1-4 - Anneal deaths per thousand ic ago groan 1-4
1971 fu- 1-oolpinf -ontrias.                                                        yeara, to children in this age group; suggesred as an indiceiur of
Cr ays rP-duction, rate - Average nunber of live daughtrsr a wnan will                  .aJoutritl-n
bear i her n rmarprod-ccivo period if she -operiances present age-
.Pecfi   fertility totes; usually five-year averages ending in 19h0.              Educa.tion
1070 and 1975 for developing countries.                                          AdJust.d enrollment ratio - primary schonl - Enrollment uf all ages a.
Population growth rate _(7) - total - Compound annual grouch rates of mid-              percentage of primary school-sge populetiec, includes children ageCd
yost Ppoplation for 1910-ho. 1960-70. ond 1960 to most recen t year.                 6-1l ysera but adjusted for different lengths of Primary educacice;
Population growth rate (7.) - urban - Ccoaputed like- grouth rate of total              for countries With universal education, enrollment may emceed 1007.
pplto;different definitions of urban are.. may affect compete.                oL.oe sane pupils are helmw or above tho officia1 school age.
hbihicy of deco aoni countries                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above. necond-
Irhes population _(7 o-f-tota) - Ratio of u-ban  a total popu.latos                     ery education reqsires at least toujr years of approved primary inotrc.-
dI fferent defoinici-s of urban areas may affect comparabiLity of data               tin; provides general, voctional or teacher training instructions for
unong countries.                                                                     pspils of 12 to 17 yeats of age, corre-pond-e.. corses ere generolly
Age structur   (percent) - Childreo (i-li years), Working-ego (15-64 Years).            excluded.
a-d retired (65 years end 00cr) an percentages of old-year population.            Years of schooling provided (first amd second levels) - Totel yeoro of
Age dependency rone - Ratio of population ..der 15 and 65 and over to                   schooling; at secondary level, vocational in.trurtjon may be partially
those of age. 15 through h4.                                                         or cmpletely excluded.
E-conmic dependescy ratio - Ratio of popalatioc under 15 and h5 and over             Voco.tional enrollment (7. of uesondory) - Vscotional institutions include
to the labor fartes  n age iroup of 15-hi years.                                    technical, industrial or other programs which pncrate independently
tenlly flossing - .ccent.ro (cumul.tive. thou) - Cumulative somber of                   or as departmtento of secondary institutions,
acceptors of birth-cntrol devices under auspices of national fanily               Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate adolta (able to read and writi) a
plonoing program si.te inception,                                                    percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
Family vlannini - users (7. of marrled women) - Percentages of married
women of child-bearing age (15-44i Years) who us- hirih-cntrol devices            Housing
to oil married women in sane a ge group.                                          Persons per room (average) - Average smber of persons par room in occu pied
KSEI~~~~~~~~vment                                                 -a~~~~~~~~cnventi.onl. dwellings in urban  re  dwellings eoclude non-pernan-nt
inoloyment                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~structures sad unoccupied parts.
Total labor force(huad        - Economically active persona.  einluding              Occupied dwellingts without piped water(7)-OcpecovnIaldl-
armed forces end unemployed hut eocluding housewives, students .etc.;                lngo Is urha  and rural areas without inside or outside piped water
definitiona in various countries are not comparable.                                 filte      aopercentage of all occupied dwellings.
Lan  orei  gri-ulture7.)  Agricultural labor foccc (in farming,               cesto      letricity (. of all dwellings) - Convemtional dwellings with
faesry   busing and fiahing) aso percentage of total labor forte,              electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
Unemployed (7. of labor force) - Unemployed are .usualy defined as persona              and rural area..
wh.oare able and wilinjg to take a Job, out of a Job on a given day,              Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7.) - Computed as above far
remained out of a jab, end seeking work for a specified misnimum                    rural dwellings only.
period not -eneding one Week; ney not he conp.rable between countries
due to different definitions of unemployed and sou rce of data, e.g..             Consumption
employment office statistics, sample aurvYs, compulsory unemployment              Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All typco of receivers for radio broad-
ins orance.                                                                          caste to general public per thousand of POPulation; e.cludes us-
license.dtreceivers in cauntries and in years When regiotretion of
Income distribution - Percentage of privete incm    (hoth In cash end                   radIo sat sea In effect; data for recent years nay not he conp-arble
kind) received by richest 57., richest 207., poorest 207., and poorest               since moot Countries abolished licensing.
407. of population.                                                               Pasoenger cars (per thou pop) - Pas  ogrett     comprise ostor coer seating
loes than eight persons; emcludes ambulances, hearses and military
Distribution of lend ownership - Percentages of land ownd by wealthiest                 vehicles.
107. end poorest 107. of land owners.                                             Electricity (kwh/yr per top) - Annual consumption of industrial, com-
me,rcial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
Health and Nutrition                                                                    generally based con production data, without alwnefur looses 10
Populatino par physiclan - Population divided by number of practicicg                   grids but allowing for imparts acd exports of electricity.
physicians qualified from  a medical school at university level,                  Newsprint (kg/yr Per caP) - Per capita -.s..I consomption in kilograms
estimated from domestic production plus net impor:s of newesprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMNRT DATA
Growth Rates         1973
Actual                Est.           Promected          1965-    1973-   1975-   Share
L965    1970     1972    1973     1974    1975     1976    1980    1973     1975    1980    of GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL billions at 1968 prices)
GDP (m.p.)                         87.4   123.8    144.7   151.3    163.2   175.3    188.9   261.6     7.1      7.7     8.3    100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade          -0.1    -0.7    -14.2     2,1    -2.4      ..      ..       ..
Gross Domestic Income              87.3   123.1    130.5   153.4    t60.8     ..      ..       ..
Exports (g + nfs)                   4.8     6.7      8.7     9.6      6.7     8.1     8.8     12.1     9.0       -      8.5      6.3
Imports (g + nfs)                  5.4      9.6     12.9   .14.3    16.8     18.1    19.3     25.1    12.9     1.9      8.8     9.5
Resource Balance                   -o.6    -2.9     -4.2    -4.7   -10.1    -10.0   -10.5    -13.0                               3.1
Consumption                        73.6   101.2    121.4   125.9    [39.1   143.9   153.8    204.1     7.0      4.6     7.3     95.1
Investment                         14.4    25.5    27.5     30.0    34.8     40.7    45.6     71.8     9.6     1f,.5   12.0     19.8
Domestic Savings                   13.8    22.6     23.3    25.4    24.1     31.6    35.1     57.5     7.9     ',.6    12.7     16.8
National Savings                   14.1    24.0    27.7     31.4    30.1     37.6    41.1     63.5    10.5      9.5    11.0     20.8
GDP (at current m.p.)              74.2   144.6    228.9   293.5    411.3      -       *-      *-     18.8
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                     Share of GDP (fe) at 1968 prices (4)
Agriculture                        34.1    29.1     28.2    24.5     24.3     ..      ..       ..      2.4
Industry                           17.8    20.6     21.8    23.5    23.6      ..      ..      ..      10.5
Services                           48.1    50.3     50.0    52.0    52.1      ..      ..      ..       7.7
C. PRICES (1968 = 100.0)
Export Price Index                100.0   137.3    169.0   234.3    397.0     ..      ..       ..
Import Price Index                109.3   1.40.6   194.6   216.4   3523.6     ..      ..      ..
Terms of Trade Index               91.5    97.6    .86.8   108.3    122.7     ..      ..       ..      ..       .
GDP (m.p.) Deflator                84.9   116.9    158.2   194.0   252.0      ..      ..       ..
Average Exchange Rate ($1.00 = Tn)  9.00  15.00    14.00   14.00    14.00     ..      ..       ..
D. SELECTED INDICATORS                       1S65-73 1973-75  1975-80            E. LABOR FORCE           1965     970     19775
Incremental Capital/output ratio            3.1  .  3.2      3.2                 Labor Force (mln)    13.      14.7
Import Elasticity                           1.8     1.5      1.1                Unemployment (mln)     0.4      0.6
Average National Savings Rate              18.4     20.4    24.3                (% of TL)              3.1      4.5
Marginal National Savings Rate             24.8     32.3    29.6                 Employment (mln)     13.2     14.1
Imports/GDP       -                         7.8     9.7     10.5                  (% share)
Investment/GDP                             19.4    21.9     25.2                  Agriculture         70.5     62.1
Resource Gap/GDP                            2.3      4.5     3.9                  Industry             8.0      9.8
Services            21.5    28.1
F. PUBLIC FINANCE
(as % of GDP at current m.p.)      1965    1970    1972     1973    174
Current revenue                    12.9    28.1     20.6    19.4    18.8
Tax revenue                        14.3    16.5     17.4    17.5    16.4
Current expenditure                10.0    LO.2     10.6    10.1     9.9
Defense expenditure                 4.5     3.3      3.5     3.8      3.3
Government savings                  2.9    1O.8     10.0     9.3      8.9
Capital expenditures                4.7     4.8      3.8     3.5     4.7
Public sector fixed capital formation 8.8   L O.0   8.8     8.5     8.8
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974     1975     .976     1977     1980
A. Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Food                                 39.6     82.8     70.8     26.8     39.7    192.8    197.0    202.0    206.0    221.0
Other goods                          36.8    165.2    196.0    231.6    163.9    172.2    187.0    204.0    223.0    288.0
Petroleum and products               60.8     66.7    121.1    114.7    131.9    205.3    203.0    203.0    210.0    232.0
Other intermediate goods            311.6    261.3    406.3    576.0    707.3    967.0   1072.0   11''1.0  1256.0   1552.0
Capital goods                       315.6    342.9    392.5    564.6    614.0    717.6    769.0    8'?5.0   886.0   1094.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                764.4    918.9   1186.7   1513.7   1656.8   2255.9   2428.0   26)5.0   2781.0   3387.0
Non-factor services                 150.0    -43.3    242.6    178.4     77.5     76.5     80.0     30.0     90.0    100.0
Total goods and NFS                 914.4    873.7   1400.6   1669.6   1655.3   2332.4   2508.0   2685.0   2871.0   3487.0
B.  Prices Index (1968 = 100)
Food                                103.0    106.0     95.0     94.0    116.0    166.0    178.0    1:38.0   150.0    158.0
Other goods                         103.0     92.0     89.0     91.0    134.0    126.0    151.0    164.0    177.0    219.0
Petroleum and products              100.0    100.0    103.0    135.0    168.0    419.0    448.0    437.0    528.0    652.0
Other intermediate goods            108.0    101.0     84.0     77.0     95.0    120.0    133.0    145.0    156.0    193.0
Capital goods                       103.0    110.0    118.0    129.0    151.0    170.0    190.0    206.0    222.0    275.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                105.0    103.0     99.0    103.0    126.0    167.4    182.4    193.5    206.4    250.9
Non-factor services                 103.0    110.0    118.0    129.0    151.0    170.0    201.3    220.0    236.7    294.0
Total goods and NFS                 105.0    103.0    104.0    107.0    133.0    167.8    183.0    194.3    207.3    252.1
C. Current Valtues (Million $)
Food                                 40.8     87.8     67.3     25.2     46.1    320.0    351.0    319.0    309.0    350.0
Other goods                          37.9    152.0    174.4    210.8    219.6    217.0    282.0    335.0    395.0    631.0
Petroleum and products               60.8     66.7    124.7    154.9    221.6    860.0    908.0    989.0   1109.0   1512.0
Other intermediate goods            336.5    263.9    341.3    443.5    671.9   1160.0   1426.0   1698.0   1959.0   2995.0
Capital goods                       325.1    377.2    463.1    728.3    927.1   1220.0   1461.0   1700.0   1967.0   3009.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                801.1    947.6   1170.8   1562.7   2086.3   3777.0   4428.0   5040.0   5739.0   8497.0
Non-factor services                 154.5    -47.6    286.3    230.2    117.0    144.0    161.0    176.0    213.0    294.0
Total goods and NFS                 955.6    900.0   1457.1   1792.9   2203.3   3914.0   4589.0   5216.0   5952.0   8791.0
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETAIL
1969     1970    1971     1972    1973     1974     1975    1 976    1977     1980
A. Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Cotton                            i.23.3   165.4    123.8   107.4    151.3     77.3   100.0    125.0    150.0   180.0
Tobacco                            77.8     73.7     65.7    90.9     81.3     83.7    85.0     88.0     90.0   100.0
Hazelnuts                           99.9    63.0     56.0    78.1     72.0    104.7   110.0    120.0    130.0   160.0
Raisins                             25.1    21.6     28.9    36.9     60.5     30.9    60.0     63.0    67.0     85.0
Mining and quarry products          33.3    32.4     22.5    19.7     20.7     21.7    22.0     23.0     24.0    30.0
Manufactured goods                  96.5    96.3    126.7    188.4   301.4    272.0   300.0    32O0.0   350.0   440.0
All other goods                    79.2     79.8     92.8    114.0  .159.6     54.1   120.0    lE0.0    170.0   230.0
Total goods (f.o.b.)               535.1   532.2    516.4   635.4    846.8    644.4   797.0    889.0    981.0  1225.0
Non-factor services                140.4    23.8    151.3   131.1    198.1    229.9   253.0    261.0   279.0    355.0
Total goods and NFS                675.5   556.0    667.7   766.5   1044.9    874.3  1050.0   11'0.0   1260.0  1580.0
B. Price Index (1968 - 100)
Cotton                              92.1   104.7    156.0   178.2    202.1    461.6   377.7    447.6   489.6    587.5
Tobacco                            10)4.8  106.7    130.7    144.0   163.3    243.6   256.0    277.0    299.0   397.0
Hazelnuts                          1(17.7  138.1    150.4    149.1   169.1    186.6   208.4    228.8    248.2   308.4
Raisins                             911.0   96.2     75.2    82.6     93.7    187.1   209.0    229.5    249.0   309.3
Mining products                    104.8   140.2    178.4    177.8   201.6    230.2   232.0    253.0    258.0   328.0
Manufactured goods                 100.4   104.2    114.6    125.9   142.8    213.2   235.0    256.0    276.0   341.0
All other goods                    100.4   104.2    114.6    125.9   142.8    163.1   181.0    196.2    212.0   262.C
Total goods (f.o.b.)              1t0.3    110.6    131.0    139.3   155.5    225.0   241.3    269.3    293.7   360.2
Non-factor services                100.4   104.2    114.6    125.9   142.8    167.0   202.0    220.0    237.0   294.0
Total goods and NFS                100.3   110.3    127.3    137.0   153.1    219.1   231.8    258.1    281.2   345.3
C. Current Values (Million $)
Cotton                             115.6   173.2    193.1   191.3    305.8    356.8   378.0    560.0   734.0   1058.0
Tobacco                            8L.5     78.6     85.9   130.9    132.9    203.8   217.6    243.8   269.1    397.0
Hazelnuts                          10'7.6   87.0     84.2    116.5   121.7    195.3   229.2    274.6    322.7   493.4
Raisins                            22.8    220.8     21.7    30.5     56.7    57.9    125.4    144.6    166.8   262.7
Mining and quarry products          34.9    45.4     40.1    35.1     41.7     50.0    51.0     58.2     61.9    98.4
Manufactured goods                  96.9   100.3    145.2   237.2    430.4    580.0   705.0    819.2    966.0  1500.4
All other goods                     79.5    83.2    106.4   143.5    227.9     88.3   217.2    294.0    360.4   602.6
Total goods (f.o.b.)               536.8   588.5    676.6   885.0   1317.1   1532.0  1923.2   2393.8  2881.3   4412.0
Non-factor services                141.0    24.8    173.4    165.0   282.9    384.0   511.1    574.2   661.2   1043.7
Total goods and NFS                677.8   613.3    850.0   1050.0  1600.0   1916.0  2434.3  :2968.0   3542.5  5455.7
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In US$ Millions)
Actual                     Est.                           Projected
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (goods)                                588       677       885     1,317     1,532     1,923    2,394     2,881      3,312     3,826     4,412
Imports (goods)                               -948    -1,171    -1,563    -2,086    -3,777    -4,428   -5,040    -5,739     -6,549    -7,484    -8,497
Non-factor services, net                       -4         -3        27       165       246       350       398      448        541      641        750
Resource balance (1+2+3)                      -364      -497      -651      -604    -1,999    -2,155   -2,248    -2,410    -2,696     -3,017    -3,335
Interest, net                                  -47       -60       -62       -59       -75      -106     -133      -163       196      -239       -281
Workers' remittances                           273       471       740     1,183     1,425     1,600     1,792     2,007     2,248     2,518     2,820
Profit transfers                              -33        -36       -35       -35       -55       -50      -50       -60       -60        -70       -70
Net factor income (5+6+7)                      193       375       643     1,089     1,295     1,444     1,609     1,784     1,992     2,209     2,469
Balance on current account (4+8)              -171      -122        -8       485      -704      -711      -638      -626      -705      -808      -866
Private direct investment                       58        45        43        27        25        30       30        30        40        40        40
TL Grain imports and grante                     83        55        16        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Commercial credits (net)                        -         -         -         52        75       213       50       253        349       378       382
Direct imports (with waivers)                   34        27        39        50        65        80       90        100       110       120       130
Public M+LT loans:
Disbursements                                  271       293       294       376       306       382       373      406       426       470       479
Amortization                                  -197      -125      -127      -107       -85      -144      -155      -174      -189      -201      -205
Net disbursements                               74       168       167       269       221       237       218       232       237       270       274
Debt relief                                     16        13        10        35        -         -         -         -         -         -        -
EMA refinancing                                 50        37             -         -         -         -         -         -         -              -
Overall balance                                144       223       267       918      -318      -150      -250       -10        30        -        -40
Short-term capital                              18        61       332      -244       -88      -100       -50             -         -              -
Change in reserves (- = increase)             -138      -344      -627      -728       362       250       300        10      -30        -          40
Errors and omissions                           -24        60        28        54       -44             -         -         -         -              -
ERd of period:
Gross international reserves                   431       761     1,401     2,120     1,758     1,510     1,210     1,200     1,230     1,230     1,190
Net international reserves                      11       414       556     1,006       430       180      -120      -130      -100      -100      -160
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official grant                                  -         -         -         -         -
Total public M+LT loans                      271.1     336.7     441.7     319.6     578.0
IBRD                                        40.0      54.5     177.0     105.0     228.0
IDA                                           -       19.5      36.3      30.0        -                                          Outstanding 12/31/74
Other multilateral (EIB)                    15.7      13.0       1.7      49.8      90.0     EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)        Amount    Percent
Governments                                168.2     219.4     194.7     114.9     170.0                                            (US$ Millions)
of which: Eastern Bloc                  (113.7)   ( 2.8)    (   - )   (   - )   (   - )    IBRD                                   208.1      4.8
Suppliers                                   27.2      20.8      29.2      19.9      75.0     Bank group                             334.8      7.7
Financial institutions                      20.0       9.5       2.8        -       15.0     Other multilateral (EIB)               245.7      5.7
Bonds                                         -         -         -         -         -      Governments                          2,299.8     53.0
Public loans                                  -         -         -         -         -        of which: centrally planned
economies                 (267.0)    (6.2)
Other M+LT loans                                -         -         -         -         -      Suppliers                              114.0      2.6
Financial institutions                  73.7      1.7
MEMORANDUM ITEMS                                                                               Bonds                                   17.5      0.4
% Grant element (Pub. M+LT)                   47.0      47.0      45.0      41.0      30.6     Public debt NEI                          6.0
Average interest (%)                           3.1       3.9       3.8       4.4       6.0     Total public M+LT debt               3,091.5
Average maturity (years)                      19.1      25.3      21.6      2J.5      23.7     Other public M+LT debt
Other M+LT debt
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                          Total public debt (incl. undisb.)
Medium and Long-term debt (disbursed only)                                                     Total M+LT debt (incl. undisb.)      4,341.7    100.0
Total debt outstanding (DOD; end period)   1,841     2,235     2,454     2,803     3,091
Including undisbursed                      2,684     3,041     3,387     3,778     4,342     DEBT PROFILE
Public debt service                          171       162       208       i83       211     Total debt service 1974-78/total
+ interest                                  42        51        61        77        87       DOD end of 1973                       42.7
Other M+LT debt service
Total debt service
Debt Burden (percentage)
Debt service ratio (goods and NFS)          26.3      21.3      21.0      14.9      11.7
Debt service ratio (goods and services)     18.6      13.2      12.0       8.6       6.4
Debt service/GDP                             1.8       1.2       1.3       0.9       1.7
Public debt service/Government revenues      9.0       5.7       6.4       4.7       3.9
Terms
Interest on total DOD/Total DOD              2.3       2.3       2.5       2.7       2.8
Total debt service/Total DOD                 9.3       7.2       8.5       6.5       6.8
Dependency Ratios for M+LT Debt
Gross disbursements/imports (incl. NFS)     35.7      38.0      19.6      15.7       8.8
Net transfer/imports (incl. NFS)            16.7      16.9       7.9       7.4        -
Net transfer/gross disbursement             46.8      60.3      40.6      46.9        -
Exposure
IBRD disb./gross total disbursement          5.5       5.6       7.2      16.6      21.8
Bank group disb./gross total disb.           7.7       6.8       8.2      17.5      25.8
IBRD DOD/total/DOD                           2.9       3.2       3.7       5.0       6.7
Bank group DOD/total DOD                     7.4       7.2       7.8       9.1      10.8
IBRD debt service/total debt service         3.3       5.0       5.5       9.8      10.5
Bank group debt service/total debt service   3.6       5.4       6.0      10.6      11.2
January 16, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1976)
Loan or                                                                    Amount
Credit                                                            (Less Cancellations US$m)
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose                Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Ten loans and eight credits Eully disbursed                       139.2   92.7
587-TU    1969   Republic oi' Turkey      Seyhan Irrigation
STAGE II                12.0              1.9
713-TU    1970   TSKB                     Industry                40.0             0.1
236-TU    1971   Republic oi' Turkey      Livestock I                     4.5       2.1
748-TU    1971   Republic oi Turkey       Education               13.5             8.5
762-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable     10.0            10.0
257-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable            15.0       6.6
763-TU    1971   TEK                      Power Transmission      24.0              1.0
281-TU    1972   Republic of' Turkey      Irrigation Rehabili-
tation                        18.0      8.2
817-TU    1972   Republic of' Turkey      Steel Mill Expansion    76.0            26.6
844-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Water Supply   37.0             29.1
324-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Urban Dev.             2.3       1.0
845-TU_/c  1972  IGSAS                    Fertilizer Industry     42.0            15.1
330-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey       Livestock II                   16.0     12.5
873-TU    1972   TSKB                     Industry                40.0              2.6
883-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas         44.0            44.0
360-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas                30.0     19.3
892-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Power Dist.    14.0            13.5
893-TU    1973   Turkish State Railway    Railway Project         47.0            19.1
957-TU/a  1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry        40.0            40.0
1023-TU/a  1974   TEK/TKI                  Elbistan Power         148.0            148.0
1024-TU    1974   DYB                      Industry                40.0             32.1
1078-TU    1975   TSKB                     Industry                65.0             52.8
1130-TU    1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development       75.0 _           75.0
Tot:al /d                              906.7  178.5    569.2
of which has been repaid              82.3    1.7
Total now outstanding                  824.4  176.8
Amount Sold                   3.6
of which has been repaid    1.2        2.4
Total now held by Bank and
]DA /b                               822.0  176.8
Total undisbursed                      519.4   49.8    569.2
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c The increase of $18.0 million was approved on April 15, 1975.
/d A loan of $56.0 million to TEK was approved November 18, 1975 but has not yet
been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor         Type of Business         Loan     Equity     Total
1963      TSKB           DFC                        -        0.92       0.92
1966      SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                0.90      0.47       1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                        -        0.34       0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                        -        0.41       0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                1.50      0.43       1.93
1969      Viking I       Pulp and Paper            2.50      0.62       3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                    10.00      1.58      11.58
1970      NASAS          Aluminum                  7.00      1.37        8.37
1970      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn                0.75       -         0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper             -        0.05        0.05
1971      SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                 -        0.52        0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DFC                        -        0.43        0.43
1973      TSKB V         DFC                      10.00       -         10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourism                   0.33      0.27        0.60
1974      Borusan         Steel Pipes              3.60      0.44        4.04
1974      AKSA           Textiles                 10.00       -         10.00
1974      Kartaltepe     Textiles                  1.30       -          1.30
1975      Sasa           Nylon Yarn               15.00       -         15.00
1975      Aslan           Cement                  10.60       -         10.60
1975      DOKTAS          Steel                    7.50      1.26       8.76
1975      TSKB           DFC                      25.00      1.39      26.39
1975      NASAS                                    1.58       -          1.58
Total Gross Commitments                107.56     10.50     118.06
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                  45.99      1.23      47.22
Total Commitments now held by IFC       61.57      9.27      70.84
Total Undisbursed                       20.20      2.66      22.86



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
A.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587J143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 million
Loan and US$12 million Credit of February 20, 1969. Effective Date: June 17,
1969. Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Work on Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project is being perform-
ed in a satisfactory manner, and the project is expected to be completed by
the end of 1977. As regards the training component, an integrated training
program for TOPRAKSU, the Agriculture Extension Service and DSI has been
prepared and is in the process of being implemented by the Government. The
Government is also preparing recommendations for implementation of proposals
contained in the water charges study.
Cr. No. 236 First Livestock Project:   US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Effective Date: December 23, 1971. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Project funds are now fully committed, and 152 subbo-rrowers will
benefit under the Credit. This falls short of the 250-300 est[mated at
appraisal due mainly to price increases. Imported cattle have performed up
to or in excess of appraisal estimates.   Overall, the project has been suc-
cessful in establishing a valuable nucleus of over 3,500 high-quality dairy
animals in Turkey, setting up demonstration farms, building infrastructure,
and in prom4ting dairy moderniza*tion through provision of credit and support-
ing technical services to dairymen.
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due t:o the initial
reluctance of the Ministry of Education to provide the project unit with ade-
quate qualified staff and authority commensurate with responsibilities, that
this unit had to undertake. However, these problems have been resolved and
implementation is now proceeding well, including procurement of equipment
(the major component of the project). The procurement of equipment (the major
component of the project) is proceeding satisfactorily.    Although more limited
progress has been made in achieving the overall educational objectives of the
project, these are nowf receiving increased attention including progress in
expanding local advisory committees, curriculum development and training of
teachers for project schools. Similarly, interim actions have been taken
regarding operation and staffing of the Management Training Institute, pending
passage of legislation formally establishing the Institute. About $5.0 million
has been disbursed since the beginning of FY76 and disbursements are expected
to continue at a high level.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
Loan and US$15 million Credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19, 1972.
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project was initially delayed by difficulties in making the
loan/credit effective by the due date. Progress with 3 of the 5 major proj-
ect components is satisfactory (refrigerated trucks, ferry boats, marketing
facilities). Of 2 ferry boats proposed for purchase, the financing of one
will be provided under the proposed Agricultural Credit/Agroindustries Project.
A new extension approach has been initiated to increase the citrus production,
the fourth component. The fifth, the agricultural credit survey, did not
produce meaningful results, and other arrangements have been made to prepare
an agricultural credit project for Bank financing.
Ln. No. 763 TEK Power Transmission Project: US$24 million loan of June 22,
1971. Effective Date: October 4, 1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The implementation pace of this project has been slower than origi-
nally anticipated due to staff shortages experienced in the initial years.
First contracts were awarded early in 1972 and work is now progressing accord-
ing to the revised schedule. Problems in meeting the financial covenants
are maintained in connection with the Elbistan loan.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Project construction schedules were revised in 1973 and reviewed
in 1975, with the new completion dates for Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat sub-
projects being about two years behind the original schedule. Progress on con-
struction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works at Silifke and
Tokat is now proceeding well, but on-farm works are still behind schedule at
Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season. The training
program has been developed and is in the process of being implemented. After
considerable discussions with the Bank, action has also been recently initiated
to locate and appoint individual experts required under the project.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31,1977.
The project is over a year and a half behind schedule, due to
delays in beginning procurement, stemming largely from inefficient management.
Following continuing discussions between the Government, the company and the
Bank on these problems, a well qualified senior executive was appointed as the
president of the company, a new project manager has been appointed and manage-
ment problems have essentially been overcome. The company is however experi-
encing difficulties in finding adequate financing for the substantial cost over-
runs for the project. However, Erdemir's cash shortfall for 1975 has been



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
covered and the Government is actively exploring ways to cover the expected
1976 shortfall, including possible steps to find a long term solution to this
problem.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The supply of water for Istanbul has increased by 69 percent since
1971, and water supply to the Asian side has doubleQd in the past year, but
shortages persist, particularly for municipalities adjacent to Istanbul.
Project progress is about one year behind appraisal estimates, but reasonable
progress is now being made. Draft reports of the management consultants were
completed in fall 1975 and their recommendations are now to be studied by
ISI's management.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972.  Effective Date:   January 4, 1973.   Closing Date:  June 30, 1977.
Four consultant groups started work between November 1973 and
February 1974. Work on the Wastewater and the Bus/Traffic Engineering and
Control Projects is nearing completion. Phase I of the Urban and Transport
studies are completed, and are presently under review by the Government and
Bank prior to finalizing plans for carrying out Phase II.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975'. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1977.
The project is expected to be completed by December 1976, represent-
ing a 3-4 month delay compared to the original schedule. The estimated cost
to complete shows an increase from $130 million to $147.3 milLion of which
$2.8 million is in foreign exchange. The cost overrun will be covered by the
Government, the State Investment Bank and the shareholders.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million Credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: Decernber 31, 1976.
The Village Livestock Development (VSD) subproject of the project
is behind schedule, due mainly to difficulties encountered heretofore in
recruiting both locaL and expatriate specialist staff because of the low
salaries and side benefits offered by the executing agency, the Directorate of
Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture
(MFA). However, as a result of the increased use of incentive payments and an
intensified recruitment effort in late 1975 and early 1976, the local technical
staffing of this subproject has now been increased to 37 professionals and
subprofessionals out of a current overall requirement of about 45. One of
three posts for individual experts is vacant, although a potential candidate
has been selected, subject to review by the Bank. As a result of the slow
staff build-up in the past, the VSD subproject has thus far proceeded slowly.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Less than 200 subloans of the 5,430 envisaged at appraisal are operational.
However, as a result of the recent recruitments, and additional staff being
recruited, a substantial acceleration of VSD sub-lending is anticipated
this year. Virtually all of the funds for subloans under the Livestock
Fattening subproject (FSD) are committed, and this subproject is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 873 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$40 million
loan of December 28, 1972. Effective Date: March 21, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Since the first Bank loan was made in 1950, a satisfactory rela-
tionship has been developed with TSKB whose standard of performance is con-
sistently high. This loan to TSKB has been almost fully committed.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date:
March 20, 1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After initial delays due to difficulties in engaging a suitable
engineering consulting firm, good progress is now being made. Contracts for
on-farm development equipment and for main dam construction have been awarded.
The dam contractor was expected to start work by the end of November 1975.
Although Topraksu and the Ministry of Agriculture have not yet employed ex-
perts for on-farm development and extension, agreement has been reached with
the Government on steps to resolve this issue and employ the experts as quick-
ly as possible. In view of a substantial increase in project costs, a re-
vised financing plan is now under preparation by the Ministry of Finance; how-
ever, the Government has indicated that it intends to fully cover increased
project costs.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
Progress on this project has been delayed by about three years by
lack of aggressive administration and costs have increased by nearly 130 per-
cent over appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power mar-
ket and proposed company reorganization have been completed and the consultant
to study the gas supply system has now been appointed. The Government is
preparing proposals on how it will cover the increased project costs and
revitalize the company's finances.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date:   August 28, 1973.   Closing Date:   September 30, 1976.
After initial delays, procurement of track material and other Bank-
financed items is nou progressing satisfactorily. TCDD's locomotive produc-
tion, which is being financed by another external lending institution, and
the pace of track renewal have both been accelerated. However, the project
remains about a year behind schedule. Although tariffs have been raised
twice since the loan was made, other provisions of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements have not been carried out as scheduled, but agreement has been
reached with the Bank about revising some of the original targets which TCDD
should achieve.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya Forestry Project: US$40 million loan of January 28,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The date for effectiveness for this loan has been extended to
April 30, 1976, to allow time for consideration of the effects of site
relocation. A study of the effects of relocation has now been completed
by consultants acceptable to the Bank, which confirms the viability of the
new project site. A proposal covering the needed changes in the agreements
is expected to be circulated to the Executive Directors shortly. Construction
has begun at the new site and the project is expected to be completed by the
enu of 1978, about 1-1i2 years behind the original schedule.     The cost over-
runs are being met by the Government and the State Investment Bank.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
This loan to the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) and the
Turkish Coal Authority (TKI) is to help finance the development of an open-
cast lignite mine in east central Turkey and the construction of an adjacent
lignite-burning 1200 megawatt power station and associated transmission lines.
Date for effectiveness of this loan, originally N4ovember 1, 1974, has been
postponed to June 1, 19I76. Arrangements for the establishment of new elec-
tricity tariffs have been agreed upon between the Government and the Bank,
but have not been implemented, thus holding up the effectiveness of the
loan and disbursements under the EIB and KfW loans, which are linked to the
Bank loan by cross-effectiveness conditions. Meanwhile engineering and
contracting are proceeding, with minor delays.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1978.
Submission of subprojects has been slower than anticipated. How-
ever, five projects totaling about $22.5 million have been approved and
disbursements are expect:ed to increase more rapidly in the first half of
1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan, which brings Bank lending to TSKB to $233 million, was
declared effective by April 24, 1975. Since then, TSKB has taken significant
steps to mobilize additional domestic and foreign resources and is channelling
the bulk of its lending to Turkey's underdeveloped regions. As of mid-April,
1976, about $44 million of the loan had been committed.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankuri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan was declared effective on January 22, 1976, following
establishment of the project extension service with appointment of a project
director and two deputies. Recruitment of extension staff and some construc-
tion work have commenced.
Technical Assistance Project - Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK): US$1.9
million grant of August 20, 1967.
Technical assistance contracts covering the second phase of the
work were terminated in November-December 1972. Achievement, though short
of target in some respects, is generally satisfactory and TEK now has a much
improved accounting, budgeting and financial reporting system. Contracts for
the last phase of the work have been signed and final training program has
gotten underway, with one group of accountants having already completed train-
ing and further training groups being planned.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
Guarantor:           Republic of Turkey.
Amount:              US$63 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Fifteen years including five years of grace, with in-
terest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     The Borrower would:   (a) sub-lend $11.8 million directly
to farmers through TCZB's supervised Credit Program at a
minimum interest rate of 11 percent, of which $9.5 mil-
lion would be for the existing program of medium and long-
term credits for investment with maximum repayment periods
of 2-10 years, including 0-2 years of grace, and $2.3 mil-
lion would be for a new prngram of short-term credits for
production inputs with a maximum repayment period of one
year, with no grace period; (b) onlend $11.3 million to the
Turkish Sugar Corporation (TSF) for sub-lending for cattle
fattening through a revolving fund created for the purpose,
at an interest rate of 14.4 percent, with a maximum repay-
ment period of four months; (c) sub-lend $28.8 million
directly to public and private agroindustrial firms, at a
minimum interest rate of 14.4 percent, with a maximum
repayment period of 12 years, including up to 3 years of
grace; (d) onlend $6.9 million to the Turkish Cargo Lines
(TCL) for purchase of a ferryboat at an interest rate of
8.5 percent, with a maximum repayment period of 12 years,
including up to 3 years of grace.
The foreign exchange risk for the agroindustries and
ferryboat components would be assumed by the sub-borrowers
and in the case of other components, by the Guarantor.
Project              The project would help finance part of TCZB's agricultural
Description:        investment program over three years by means of provision
of credit for: (a) supervised loans to farmers for
investment and production costs in crops and liestock;
(b) expansion of investment in certain categories of agro-
industries; (c) purchase of one ferryboat for fruit and



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
vegetable truck transport to trans-Mediterranean markets;
and (d) purchase of vehicles for TCZB field staff. It
would also help strengthen the operations, financial
practices and technical capabilities of TCZB through con-
sultants and experts for technical assistance and training.
Estimated Cost:      The cost of the project is estimated at about $173 mil-
lion equivalent, with the following main components:
---- US$ Million ----
Local Foreign Total
Supervised Credit
Integrated farm development         16.1    3.4      19.5
Short-term lending                   1.5    2.3       3.8
Agroindustries                        33.4   29.7      63.1
Cattle fattening                      32.1    0.9      33.0
Ferryboat                              -      8.5       8.5
Vehicles                               -       1.2      1.2
Consultants                            -      2.1       2.1
Contingencies:  Physical               3.4    3.2       6.6
Price                 23.3   11.7     35.0
lotai rrojecc Cost                 ;0,.8   63.0     172.8
Physical contingencies are provided only for the agroindus-
tries component, at rates of 10 percent, except for two
slaughterhouses which are based on 20 percent. price con-
tingencies are estimated for all components and include:
1975    1976     1977+
Equipment costs                        12%      10%      8%
Civil works, vehicles and
consultants                          16%      14%     12%
Financing Plan:                                                - US$ Million -
Local   Foreign
IBRD:  All foreign exchange costs           -       63.0
TCZB:  52% of local costs                   57.3     -
TSF:  4% local costs                        4.0      -
Subborrowers:  44% local costs             48.5     -
Total                                   109.8     63.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated                            -------------- US$ Million -------------
Disbursements:                     FY77     FY78     FY79      FY80     FY81
CumuLative       9.6      18.8     39.6     54.3      63.0
Procurement          International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Arrangements:       guidielines and under supervision of TCZB would be carried
out Eor: (i) agroindustries projects estimated to cost
(excLuding working capital) US$2 million or more, on a
turnkey basis; (ii) vehicles, grouped to the extent prac-
ticable into contracts of not less than the equivalent of
US$250,000; (iii) procurement of Ro/Ro ferryboat as agreed
by Government, TCZB, TCL and the Bank. Procurement for
agroindustries facilities costing less than US$2 million
would be on the basis of local competitive bidding proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of items for
on-farm development and cattle-fattening would be through
locaL commercial channels.
Consulting           The proposed loan provides financing for 219 man-months of
Services:           consultant services for TCZB and PU, including an account-
ing and management consultant firm and an agroindustrial
engineering consulting firm. Provisional financing is in-
cluded for 156 man-months of expert services in rarm
management, credit, finance, engineering, and marketing
for TCZB and PU, pending a final decision to finance these
servLces under proposed UNDP training programs.
Rate of Return:      36 percent.
Appraisal:           Report No. 987-TU, dated April 12, 1976.






IBRD  11436
B U L'G A R I A  a  \   B    I    A    C    g    -. .    S     E    A               T    ( h         JANUARY  1975
4                                            gLotoLic~~~~~B  A       * KUsA FACTOR
\OMI~QOI  /  *  ' U.  S.  S.  R.
_8MEDITERRA 'I                                               --             AGREASCULTURALCPI MD 94 CREDIT/E
EEC ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~                      r                    _   ~ONUTRE      RJC
7~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                             lou o s  oo IO>_   g  1         AIOA AIA
9 ~ ~ ~~ I M   O Wld=enisfb  KLMTERR25A    ,S~ if A                                 ARSCOVEREDBY SCL ION MDARE 194--PROVINCESBUNARE
Th-.16 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~<I oI                          AESSOTYTCVEE-B  C
A0-
Z  \~~    0    50   00   00~                                                      NATONAL  APITA
C    I     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                                                  .
>-   -   ~    o  ~   MLS   20 20C            P U                                   M  J RHGWY
-M  ~  ~  y-                I  IF                                                   +  ALOD
,~~  ~   -  KILOMETERS                   0                  INERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES - --PROVINCE BOUNDARIES~~~~"'



