Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F t 17  v1o 1   A,4.,/.
Report No. P-3751-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$242.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
CAMBAY BASIN PETROLEUM PROJECT
March 9, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 7, 1984)
US$1.00      =  Rs 10.689726
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.093548
Rs 1 million = US$93,548
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraiisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 10.0
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Marcb 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
API     -     American Petroleum Institute
BOP     -     Bombay Offshore Project
GOI     -      Government of India
km      -     kilometer
LPG     -      Liquified Petroleum Gas
Mmcmd   -     Millions of cubic meters per day
NGL     -     Natural Gas Liquids (or condensate)
OIL     -     Oil India (Limited)
ONGC    -     Oil and Natural Gas Commission
OPEC    -     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
toe     -     Tons of oil equivalent
ERR     -     Economic Rate of Return
EOR     -     Enhanced Oil Recovery
OIDB    -     Oil Industry Development Bank
Bbl     -     Barrel (equivalent to 42 US gallons)
IOIP    -     Initial Oil in Place
SCF     -     Standard Cubic Feet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CAMBAY BASIN PETROLEUM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC)
Amount:                  US$242.5 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25%.
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 years, including five years  grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:        Government of India (GOI) to ONGC (US$242.5 million).
Funds will be onlent to ONGC at a rate of 12%
per annum; repayment over a naximum of 15 years,
including five years' grace. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Description:    The purpose of the project would be to assist the Oil
and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) in developing
its capabilities for optimizing the production of
existing, mature oil f-ields--a new area of tech-
nology for India's fledgling oil industry. The
project comprises the preparation and implementa-
tion of a US$954 million investment program for
increasing the production of oil and gas from the
onshore Cambay Petroleum Basin located in the
State of Gujarat in western India.
Specifically, assistance would be provided in
(i) exploration - to delineate, by seismic survey
and drilling, the limits of the known producing
zones; (ii) development and production - to sub-
stantially increase the production of both oil and
gas; (iii) enhanced oil recovery - to test alter-
native technologies for increasing recoverable
reserves; and (iv) technical assistance and train-
ing to ensure that ONGC staff acquire the requi-
site skills to successfully implement the new
methodologies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Thle principal project risks are those normally
associated with petroleum exploration and
development, i.e., geological and technological.
The geological risks include the possibility that
oil will not be found in commercial quantities in
the deeper zones to be explored. The technology
being introduced under the project is a blend of
proven, profitable and "leading edge" technology
in such proportions, and with adequate foreign
technical assistance and training, that the risks
- both economic and environmental - are acceptable
under all reasonably expected adverse scenarios.



- iii~ -
Estimated Costs:                                       (US$ millions)
Local 1/      Foreign        Total
Exploration                                  19.3           61.7          81.0
Development and Production                  269.6          319.2         588.8
Enhanced Oil Recovery                         2.6            5.0           7.6
Technical Assistance and Training             2.0            5.0           7.0
Project Base Cost                  293.5          390.9         684.4
Physical contingencies                       39.7           58.4          98.1
Price contingencies                          75.3           95.9         171.2
Total Project Cost                 408.5          545.2         953.7
Front-End Fee on IBRD loan          ---             0.6           0.6
Total Financing Required           408.5          545.8         954.3
(US$ millions)
Financing Plan:                             Local         Foreign        Total
IBRD                                              242.5         242.5
Cofinancing  /                       --           245.0         245.0
ONGC                               408.5           58.3         466.8
Total                           408.5          545.8         954.3
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
Bank FY            FY84      FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Annual             0.6 3/  35.8    60.6   72.8   36.3   24.3   12.1
Cumulative         0.6      36.4    97.0  169.8  206.1  230.4  242.5
Economic Rate of Return: About 91% for total project.
Financial Rate of Return: About 18% after taxes.
Appraisal Report: No. 4928-IN, dated March 8, 1984.
1/ Includes an estimated US$150.0 million in duties and taxes.
2/ Including Euro-currency borrowings and suppliers' credits.
3/ Front-end fee.



I
I
I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN FOR THE CAMBAY BASIN PETROLEUM PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for US$242.5 million (equivalent) on standard terms to help finance
the improved recovery and production rates of the already producing oil
fields in the Cambay Basin in the State of Gujarat in India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
*           Background
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/  Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (No.P-3741-IN), dated March 1, 1984.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 19821J83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83., Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached d-uring the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s5 and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution.  The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%.  In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response. tIhe Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exportsc  As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per a-nnfum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularlSy in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output.  As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent vears, co.mbined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shiortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a declinie "n GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit.  Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability.  These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substant-ally recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981182, recording growth rates
of about: 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improvecl performance of the industrial secto7r This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and bv only 2.5, in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, t'he timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important



-4-
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the Late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line.  Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would reqcuire better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings clue to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment: and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 bil:Lion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of- GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import: bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at prov:iding producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP.  The improvement would have been greater had not
th,e drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
thie same time led to a lower level of GDP growth.  This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
re,duction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82.  The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies.  Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
reLatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted
commercial loans totalling cver US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development



-5-
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure-, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-



-6-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial conmiitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combinied with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds wqill be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
thesie needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy.  Hcowever, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of



-7-
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraiints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian econom.c
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively.  Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Ban]k Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled IUS$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year.  Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983
23.     Since 1959, IFC has mDade 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaicl, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extiension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through cre!dit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
entierprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needLs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, ass reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects.  Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support.  A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.  Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
menczed by investments in hydro and thermal powe!r generation, and in the expan-
sioII of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan.  As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
General
29.     Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear
power) accounts for about 46% of total energy consumption in India, with
the balance (54%) being derived from non-commercial sources, predominantly
firewood and agricultural and animal wastes. Over the past ten years, the
growth of energy consumption in India averaged 4% per annum, which was
marginally higher than the GDP growth for the period.  Over the same
period, commercial energy consumption increased by 5.3% per annum. Per
capita consumption of commercial primary energy is about 166 kg of oil
equivalent, or half the average for low-income developing countries. The
share of oil products in commercial primary energy consumption, at 33%, is
low compared to other developing countries but is growing rapidly.
30.     Coal is the most abundant indigenous energy resource and remains
the most important domestic source of commercial energy in India. Coal
production, which stagnated between 1976/77 and 1979/80 because of power
shortages, delays in commissioning new mines, labor difficulties and
transportation bottlenecks, has risen substantially from about 104 million
tons in 1979/80 to 131 million tons in 1982/83. At this level of
production, India is the sixth largest producer of coal in the world - but
production remains about 4 million tons per year less than demand.
However, inadequate supplies of all forms of energy has been a major
constraint hindering India's economic growth.
Petroleum
31.     Petroleum reservoirs are found in sedimentary basins.  In India,
there are 27 sedimentary basins with a total area of approximately 1.7
million sq. km, of which a'bout 1.4 million sq. km (81%) are onshore and
the remainder offshore (to a water depth of 200 meters). Commercial
petroleum production has been established in only three sedimentary
basins, viz., the Upper Assam Shelf in north-eastern India, the Cambay
basin in Gujarat, and the Bombay offshore basin which has several
petroleum fields, namely, Bombay High, North Bassein (Panna), South
Bassein, Heera and Ratnagiri (Ratna). Many of India's potential
petroleum-bearing areas remaini less than fully explored and production is
concentrated in only a few regions. Historically, the pace and scope of
exploration activity has been uneven and resources have been concentrated
on a few promising areas. Since the discovery of the giant Bombay High
field off the West Coast oE India in the mid-1970s, India has not made a
new major commercial discovery. Ongoing exploration efforts of ONGC,
however, have been encouraging and have identified several petroleum-
bearing areas which need further exploratory drilling to determine their
commercial potential. Indications of petroleum have been found in eight
other basins: Krishna-Godavari, Cauvery, Rajast-han, Bengal, Andaman
Islands, Himalayan Foothills-Ganga Valley, Tripura Fold Belt, and the
Assam-Arakan Fold Belt. Furthermore, four other basins are considered



-11-
prospective on general geological grounds, although hydrocarbons have not
yet been discovered. These basins are Saurashtra, Kutch, Konkan-Kerala
and Mahanadi. The Krishna-Godavari and Cauvery basins indicate the most
promising undeveloped potential to date.
32.     Estimates of India's potential total recoverable hydrocarbon
reserves are 4.5 billion tons of oil equivalent (toe), of which about
two-thirds are located offshore and of which about 75% is expected to be
in the form of natural gas. Proven and probable recoverable hydrocarbon
reserves are currently estimated at about 800 million toe of which about
470 million tons is oil and the remainder (about 330 million toe) is
natural gas. Natural gas is becoming increasingly important to the Indian
economy with the development of the Bombay High oilfield with its
associated gas flows and planned development of the large offshore South
Bassein gas field. Gas consumption in 1982/83, is estimated at 1.5 mil-
lion toe, and is forecast to rise to about 6.8 million toe by 1989/90.
33.     Crude oil production from domestic reserves has increased steadily
over the past 20 years from 0.45 million tons in 1960/61 to almost 7
million tons in 1970/71 and an estimated 26 million tons in 1983/84.
Consumption of crude oil grew at about 6.5% per annum over the past five
years, and will reach an estimated 40 million tons in 1983/84. Imported
crude oil is expected to account for 14 million tons, or about 35% of
consumption this year. The import bill for crude oil and petroleum
products this year is estimated to be over US$4.6 billion, representing
32% of total merchandise imports and 58% of India's merchandise export
earnings. By the end of the Sixth Plan period (1984/85), consumption -s
expected to reach about 44 million tons per year. This would exceed
expected domestic production by about 14 million tons on the basis of
expected production from known petroleum reserves.
34.     While there are good prospects for increasing production from
existing fields, both onshore (the subject of this project) and offshore,
India's dependence on crude imports could increase from a low of 33% of
its crude oil requirements in 1984/85 to about 50% in the early 1990's
unless there are major new discoveries developed in the next few years.
Thus a concerted effort to accelerate exploration and improve the
efficiency of existing production facilities is of vital importance and is
a central objective of Government policy. To this end, the investment
programs of ONGC and Oil India Limited (OIL), the Government-owned
institutions engaged in exploration and development of hydrocarbon
resources, have been stepped up. The Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1980/81-1984/85) originally allocated about US$3.7 billion 1/ for
petroleum exploration and development, which itself represented an
increase of almost 50% in real terms over the previous Plan. Revised
allocations for the Plan period are now about US$6 billion 1/, a further
increase of more than 60%.
1/ In 1980/81 prices.



-12-
Petroleum Pricing
35.     India is fully aware of the need to conserve energy and, to this
end, the Government has consistently set petroleum prices at levels
designed to ensure efficient energy use. Domestic petroleum product and
crude oil prices are regulated by the Government.  The crude oil price
paid by the Government to ONGC and OIL (in effect - a transfer price) was
raiSed in July 1981 from US$6.10 per barrel (Bbl) to US$17.30/Bbl and
ensures satisfactory profits for the companies. In 1982/83, ONGC's profit
per barrel of oil, at US$4, was in line with the average for international
oil companies. The profits, which are expected to increase to US$5/Bbl by
1984/85, provide adequate cash flow to enable 0NGC and OIL to finance a
major portion of their investment programs from internally-generated funds
and compete equitably in the commercial markets with other foreign oil
companies for borrowed funds. All exploration and development decisions
are based on international prices, and hence the lower crude oil transfer
price does not act as a disincentive to exploration and development.
Under the production-sharing contracts, foreign oil companies receive the
full. international price of their share of production. Retail product
prices have been maintained, on average, at or above international levels.
For example, gasoline, which retails for about US$1.12 in the USA, retails
for US$2.31 per gallon in India. At the present time, therefore, both the
level and the structure of petroleum prices in India is satisfactory and
is the subject of regular review under the termns of the Second Bombay High
Project approved by the Board in December 1980.
36,     Natural gas is currently sold directly by the producers (ONGC and
OIL) to the consumer on the basis of long-term contracts that require
Government approval. The Government and ONGC follow the principle, to the
extent possible, that gas is priced competitively in terms of the energy-
equivalent price relative to the alternative fuel for which it is
substituting. On this basis, associated offshore gas, which accounts for
55% of all gas sales, is priced between US$1.49 and US$7.44 per thousand
cubic feet; the lower price applies to interruptible supplies to power
plants otherwise using coal or high sulfur heavy fuel oil and the higher
prices apply to guaranteed supplies to industry and fertilizer plants.
The average price for offshor,e free gas is about US$3.83 per thousand
cubic feet, which is well above its production and delivery costs and, in
energy terms, is in line with the international price of fuel oil.
Onshore gas from Gujarat, which accounts for 20% of present gas sales, is
priced at an average of only US$0.95 per thousand cubic feet due to the
low prices stipulated in old long-term contracts. ONGC intends to
increase the price as these contracts expire or are renegotiated. For
onshore gas from Assam, which accounts for about 25% of gas sales at
present, the average price is about US$0.43 per thousand cubic feet,
reflecting the surplus associated gas which is being flared due to the
small size of the market in that isolated region. The structure of gas
prices and their expected trend in the near future is currently satisfac-
tory but is the subject of regular review under the terms of the South
Bassein Gas Development Project approved by the Board in February 1983.



-13-
Sub-sector Institutions
37.     Within the Government, the Ministry of Petroleum, is charged with
policy-making in the petroleum sector. Together with the Ministry of
Finance and the Planning Commission, it approves all investments and the
budgets of public companies operating in the sector. ONGC and OIL, both
public sector undertakings, are engaged in the exploration for, and
development of, hydrocarbon resources. Another public entity, the Indian
Oil Corporation, handles India's crude oil imports. The Oil Industry
Development Board (OIDB) is a financial institution which obtains funds
through a cess levied on domestic crude production and provides some
financing for public sector enterprises engaged in petroleum exploration,
production and refining.
Petroleum Exploration and Development Policies and Investment Strategy
38.     To develop and efficiently utilize its petroleum resources, the
Government's investment program aims to: (i) accelerate exploration
programs by both foreign and national oil companies; (ii) increase produc-
tion from existing oil and gas fields, primarily by accelerating the
development programs of ONGC and OIL in areas where petroleum has already
been discovered; and (iii) develop the gas pipeline system and encourage
gas-based industries (e.g. fertilizer and petrochemical plants) to util-
ize the substantial untapped gas resources.
39.     In order to accelerate exploration activity and to encourage
foreign oil company participation, thirty-two blocks, each ranging in size
from 10,000 to 30,000 sq. km offshore and onshore, were offered to inter-
national bidders in late 1980. The total area offered, almost
900,000 sq. km, represented about 50% of the country's sedimentary basin
area. One production-sharing agreement was signed with a consortium led
by Chevron (USA) for a 18,500 sq. km block in the Saurashtra basin off-
shore Gujarat, north of the Bombay High field. The terms of the produc-
tion sharing agreement provide for Chevron to drill at least three wells,
spending a minimum of US$29 million over a thee-year period, at its own
risk. Upon commercial discovery, ONGC may assume up to 50% joint venture
in future development (without payment of exploration costs), and produc-
tion will be split according to a scale which escalates with field
profitability. Until India achieves self-sufficiency in oil, GOI has the
option to purchase Chevron's share of the oil produced at international
prices.
40.     Invitations to bid on a second round of offerings were issued in
August 1982. The second offering included about 50 blocks both onshore
and offshore and included new areas west of the Bombay High field and the
outer shelves of the Krishna-Godavari and Mahanadi deltas. Unfortunately,
this second offering coincided with the world-wide decline in exploration
investment by international oil companies, (IOC's) and a perception by
them that the Indian sub-continent is not as attractive a proposition as
other areas at this time. The net result was that, of 37 companies
invited to bid, only a few responded. Discussions, however, are continu-
ing with two of these bidders. With no upsurge expected soon, India's
accelerated investment program, in the near term, will depend largely on



-14-
ONGC's and OIL's ability to undertake and successfully manage large and
complex investment programs. Nevertheless the initial steps in opening up
prospective acreage to private oil companies have been taken and GOI has
confirmed its continuing coimmitment to its "open door" policy. Renewed
interest by the IOC's could result from a major discovery by ONGC or
Chevron in or adjacent to the areas offered. The Government is also
considering several ideas to attract private initiatives for exploration.
One such idea is for ONGC's subsidiary, Hydrocarbons India Limited, to
form joint-ventures with both foreign and local private companies to
undertake exploration projects.
41.     To increase production from existing fields, GOI extensively
reviewed its exploration, production and utilization strategies for the
Cambay Basin (and other areas) with the Bank and expressed its interest in
undertaking some pilot enhanced oil recovery schemes for the heavy oil
fields in the northern section of the Cambay ]3asin. Subsequently, the
dialogue between ONGC and Bank staff expanded to include the full evalua-
tion of the petroleum producing potential of this mature, mostly onshore,
basin, as well as the operational and technological priorities to rapidly
increase production, modernize the operations, and develop a program of
optimal oil and gas recovery in the basin. GO)I is also rapidly expanding
the production of fertilizers and petrochemicals based on the expected
natural gas availability from the South Bassein and other fields and is
currently examining a gas distribution pipeline of some 1700 km length to
ensure optimum utilization of the gas.
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Subsector
42.     The Bank's objective for participating in the energy sector in
India is that any involvement should be aimed at increasing the efficiency
with which scarce resources are utilized; decreasing India's dependence on
imports; and enabling the transfer of appropriate technology while, simul-
taneously building up local expertise through training and other forms
of foreign-local collaboration. Most of the Bank's lending operations to
India in the sector have been in the power subsector--31 Bank/IDA
operations, totalling US$3.7 billion spanning a 34-year period. The
Bank's involvement in the petroleum subsector however has grown substan-
tially within the last six years. Four loans have been made to ONGC,
including two for the development of the Bombay High Field 1/ (US$550
million in all); one for exploration in the Krishna-Godavari basin
(US$165.5 million)2/, and another for offshore gas development in South
Bassein (US$222.3 million)3/. A loan (US$200 million) has also been made
for the modernization of several refineries.4/
1/  Loan No. 1473-IN, approved in June 1977; and Loan No. 1925-IN, approved
in December 1980.
2/  Loan No. 2205-IN, approvied in October 1982.
3/  Loan No. 2141-IN, approved in February 1983.
4/  Loan No. 2123-IN, approved in April 1982.



-15-
43.     Each project was designed to address a specific set of issues in
the subsector. (i) Planning: the first Bombay High Project aimed at
establishing the basis for a sound long-term development program for
Bombay High, the most important oil field in India, initiating the early
development phases in an optimal manner, and establishing ONGC as a
strong, well-managed company that could be attractive to the commercial
financial markets. (ii) Institutional Development: the Second Bombay
High Project was aimed at providing ONGC with appropriate managerial
capabilities while accelerating the development of the Bombay High field
at the time of rapid increase in oil prices. A Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 4139, October 11, 1982) was issued to the Executive Directors
that favorably reviewed the first project--and made recommendations for
strengthening ONGC and its modus operandi--recommendations that were
incorporated in the later projects.l/ The second loan has also proceeded
satisfactorily--with production of crude oil and gas substantially exceed-
ing that forecast at appraisal. Disbursements will be completed by mid-
1984--about 9 months behind schedule due to some modifications in the
project scope and delays in equipment delivery for the onshore and support
facilities. (iii) Technology Transfer and Gas Utilization Strategy: the
South Bassein Gas Project introduced ONGC to the complex technological
problems of offshore gas production and set the initial conditions for the
creation and development of India's gas infrastructure and marketing
issues. During the preparation of the project the Bank discussed with
GOI, ONGC and its consultants, the scope of market studies to be carried
out and has been instrumental in demonstrating the benefits of a wider
utilization of gas. As a result, the main components of that project have
been optimized in terms of the anticipated market. This dialogue is
continuing during project supervision as GOI formulates a long-term gas
strategy designed to accelerate the development of free and associated gas
reserves, based not only on the use of gas as feedstock in the fertilizer
industry, but also on the use of gas as boiler and household fuel if this
proves economic. (iv) Encouraging use of foreign oil companies: the
Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project provided a framework within which
ONGC's exploration strategies as well as the GOI's policies with respect
to the balance between national and private resources could be addressed.
While not formally associated with the process, the Bank has been
instrumental in increasing the attractiveness of the offering of the
exploration areas to IOC's (the seven proposals received in the 1980
offering were for two blocks added at the suggestion of the Bank).
Through this project, the first major basin exploration project undertaken
by ONGC, the Bank has, to a considerable extent, assisted in minimizing
the risks of the Krishna-Godavari exploration among the onshore, shallow
offshore and deep offshore portions of the project area.
1/  The one suggestion that was not implemented (that ONGC, rather than
GOI, be the "borrower" of Bank funds directly) was discussed in detail
with GOI but runs counter to Government policy with respect to all
foreign borrowings from official sources--and has not proved detrimen-
tal to ONGC's financial reputation.



-16-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Obiectives and rationale for Bank Involvement
44.     The project represents ONGC's first major effort at increasing
production from an existing field and, as mentioned in para. 41 above,
hais requested Bank assistance in reviewing its exploration, production
and utilization strategies fior the field. During the course of this
review, the design and scope of the project haLs changed significantly:
the initial development of the heavy oil fields, the seismic survey
components, the very substantial training component and the extensive use
of foreign expertise in the technologically-critical phases of the project
all resuLt from the Bank's involvement with ONGC in developing the
project. Continued involvement throughout project execution will ensure
that optimal decisions are taken at each stage of the project
implement:ation.
45,     The proposed project was appraised in September 1983.  The Staff
Appraisal Report (No.4928-IN) dated March 8, 1984 is being distributed
sepa:rately to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Data Sheet appears
as Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, DC in March 1984.
The 3orrcwer, and ONGC were represented in a team coordinated by
Mr. Chatterjee of the Department of Economic Affairs within the Ministry
of Finance.
.TheCapa =E Basin
46.     The Cambay basin (see Map 17603) is a 400 km long by 80 km wide
sedimentary basin lying roughly north-south in the State of Gujarat. A
portion (about 20%) of the basin is located in near-shore tidal and shal-
low water areas of the Gulf of Cambay. Production from the basin com-
menced in 1960 and cumulative production through 1983 was about 34 million
toe, 90% of which was oil, the remainder, gas. Current production
averages 3.2 million tons of oil and 0.6 million toe of gas per year.
Akbout half of the production comes from one field--the Ankleshvar field--
which has now passed its peak productive years and is showing a 25% drop
in annual output. Much of the remaining oil to be recovered is "heavy"
oil of about 18 degree API gravity and a viscosity range of 100 to 500
cent:..poise,l/ located in the northern part of the basin--in the Santhal,
Balol and Lanwa fields.  More than 25 other fields--mostly small and
isolated--have been identified but not evaluated using modern techniques.
Some portions of the basin have not yet been surveyed or drilled.
47.     The project would coimprise the following components:
(a) Exploration: (i) seismic survey, using modern technology,
of tne shallow water, tidal flats and shoal areas of the Cambay Gulf.
About 1750 line-kilometers of data would be acquired; and (ii) deep
1/ Oil with an API gravity range of 20 or less, and a viscosity of 100
centipoise or more, is considered "heavy oil".



-17-
exploratory drilling of 4 wells to extend the knowledge of the subsurface
from the currenit 3000 meters to 5000 meters depth in highly prospective
areas.
(b) Development and Production: (i) complete the development
schemes of several light oil fields namely: Kalol, North and South Kadi,
Sobhasan and Nawagam involving 247 new wells producing an incremental 0.8
million tons of oil; (ii) commence the development of three known heavy
oil fields namely: North Santhal, Balol and Lanwa involving about 287
wells producing an incremental 0.75 million tons of oil;
(iii) rehabilitate the existing Cambay gas field involving 14 wells to
reverse the decline in current production rates; and (iv) institute major
improvements to the well maintenance (workover) operations to eliminate
the backlog of 345 existing wells needing repair and to upgrade the main-
tenance standards thereby increasing the oil production by about 0.3 to
0.4 million tons per year. The backlog will be eliminated over a 5-year
period by replacing obsolete workover rigs, purchasing new rigs and con-
tracting part of the work to outside groups.
(c) Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) Pilot Schemes: Three pilot
schemes are proposed: two thermal EOR (in-situ combustion) pilots in the
Lanwa heavy oil field and a polymer chemical flood pilot in the Jhalora
light oil field. The pilot operations are expected to last about four
years and are timed to produce solutions to remedy the progressive decline
in field production expected to become acute towards the end of the
decade. An expected result of the EOR pilot test is a substantial
increase in the volume of heavy oil produced from the Cambay Basin.
Advanced planning for the utilization of this additional oil is essential
and GOI would undertake, by March 31, 1985, a heavy oil utilization study,
discuss the findings with the Bank and take the necessary steps to ensure
the utilization, or sale, of the heavy oil (Section 4.03, Loan Agreement).
(d) Technical Assistance and Training: ONGC, with foreign
assistance, would institute an extensive field-level staff training
program that is optimally sized to the project's needs and covers all
facets of oil-field operations--drilling, production, cementing, logging,
pipelines, instrumentation and well stimulation techniques. Expatriate
assistance would also be provided for the introduction of the new tech-
nologies required in the application and evaluation of EOR methods, and as
required, also in mud and reservoir engineering, workover techniques and
formation testing. Experienced international contractors in drilling and
well services would be used where local capabilities are not adequate or
conversant with the technologies to be employed.
Project Costs and Financing
48.     The financing requirements of the project, including
contingencies, price escalation and front-end fee, are estimated at
US$954.3 million of which US$545.8 million represents the foreign exchange
costs. Taxes and duties included in the above costs are estimated at
US$150.0 million. Contingencies were determined on the basis of the
following assumptions and projections:



-18-
(i) Physical contingencies:
EOR and Exploration        - 20%
Drilling expenditures    - 15%
Equipment and Technical
Assistance/Training       - 10%
(ii) Price contingencies,:
FY84/85  FY85186  FY86/87  FLY8788
Foreign costs        7.5%      7.0%      6.0%      6.0%
Local costs          7.0%      8.0%      8.0%      6.0%
49.     The amount of the proposed Bank loan (US$242.5 million), was
determined after considering firstly, the types of components suitable for
Bank financing: (i) those items which are generaly not financed by
suppliers' credits (contractor and consultant services) or by other com-
mercial sources (pilot EOR schemes and exploration); (ii) items that are
most suitable for international competitive bi.dding and involve minimum
retroactive financing; and (iii) items whose technological and quality
aspects are critical to t:he success of the project and in which continiued
Bank involvement throughout the life of the project is important. Second,
thie share of Bank financing of the selected project components reflects
thie Bank's judgement as to the appropriate level of participation required
in the component to be reascnably assured that, its objectives under the
project will be met and a. recognition that, over time, the Bank's level of
participation in such projects should progressively decrease. The
application of these two criteria has resulted in a loan that finances 25%
of total project costs.
50.     The Bank loan, which. represents about 1% of ONGC's overall invest-
ment program in the next 6 years, would be made to GOI on standard IBR])
terms--20 years, including 5 years' grace period, at the standard variable
rate. GOI would on-lend the proceeds of the loan to ONGC at an
interest rate of 12% for a maximum of 15 years including 5 years' grace.
This onlending rate is expected to exceed the domestic inflation rates
outlined above during the next 5 years. The 5 year grace period is jus-
tified on the grounds that about 14% of the project represents
exploration, EOR pilot schemes and training which yield only long-term
benefits; that large additional investments for exploratory drilling
and/or commercial scale EOR applications will follow the proposed project;
that half of the project loan financing is from commercial sources (with
relatively short repayment terms of 6-8 years); and that ONGC will need to
borrow large amounts (US$7 billion) over the next 6 years, mostly commer-
cial loans, which need to be balanced by longer term borrowing in order to
maintain a reasonable debt service burden. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOI and ONGC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).



-19-
ONGC's Investment Plan and its Funding - Cofinancing
51.     ONGC's Investment Plan over the next six years, 1984/85 through
1989/90, as approved by GOI, is as follows:
US$ (billion)          (%)
Exploration
Offshore                       3.1                16
Onshore                        4.1                21
Development
Offshore                       7.3                37
Onshore                        4.6                24
Other items                      0.3                 2
Total                      19.4               100
This Investment Plan assumes that increased exploration will lead to
discoveries that will increase the annual oil production rate above the
31 million tons in 1989/90 that is expected from currently known resources
to a level of 45 million tons of oil per year by the end of the decade.
52.     The financing of this ambitious investment program will be a major
task facing ONGC throughout the period. In the absence of new
discoveries, ONGC's reserves/production ratio will decline from the
present 23 years to about 12 years by 1989/90.  Production will peak
towards the end of the decade and decline thereafter unless new commercial
discoveries are made and brought on stream within the next 5 to 10 years.
This scenario emphasizes the prudence of both an ambitious exploration
program (representing 37% of total investments through 1989/90), and a
conservative borrowing program until its petroleum reserve base is further
expanded.
ONGC proposes to finance this investment program as follows:
US$ (billion)          (%)
Planned Investments              19.4                100
(Of which foreign
exchange costs)              (8.7)               (45)
Financed by:
Internal cash generation       12.2                 63
Foreign commercial
borrowings                     4.4                 23
World Bank loans 1/             0.6                  3
Other loans                     2.2                 11
19.4                100
1/ Disbursements under this loan as well as under the already approved
Krishna-Godavari and South Bassein loans.



-20-
53.     Such a borrowing program is considered prudent and ONGC's overall
projected financial situation during the 6-year period is considered
satisfactory. ONGC's debt/equity ratio, at present, is about 40/60 and
ONGC has confirmed its intention to maintain a current ratio of at least
1.3, a debt/equity ratio of 1.5 or less and a debt service coverage ratio
of at least 1.5. As in past loans, in this sector, GOI would, from time
to time, carry out a review of the prices of crude oil and natural gas and
set such prices at a level to enable ONGC, under conditions of efficient
operation, to meet its operating expenses and earn a satisfactory after-
tax return on assets employed, to meet its debt service and working capi-
tal requirements and finance a substantial portion of its proposed capital
investments (Section 4.02, Loan Agreement).  Additionally, ONGC would
(i) submit, annually to GOI, an analysis of its financial situation as a
basis for setting the prices of oil and natural gas. Such analysis would
include, inter alia, a financial evaluation of the Project and other major
development investments and would indicate the level of prices required
for ONGC to earn a discounted cash flow return of 15% after tax on the
project or other major investments (Section 4.03, Project Agreement); and
(ii) follow normally accepted, prudent financial practices and maintain
satisfactory debt-equity, current, and debt service ratios (Section 4.04,
Project Agreement).
54.     ONGC would finance 49% (US$467 million) of the project from its
internal cash flow resources and would seek commercial cofinancing of
US$245 million, representing 26% of the total project cost for the
project. The Bank has successfully encouraged ONGC to diversify its
sources of foreign exchange financing. Initially, cofinancing was con-
fined to export, supplier, or buyer credit financing but, in recent years,
commercial borrowing has figured increasingly as a source of borrowing.
Commercial co-financing has increased from nothing in 1976/77 to an
estimated 50% of total ONGC loans in 1983/84. Specifically, over the next
24 months ONGC expects to borrow about US$900 million in the commercial
markets for its total investment program, including this project.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which the project com-
ponents will be procured. For manufactured goods to be financed by the
Bank, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal
to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties
and import taxes, whichever is less, for bid evaluation purposes.
Domestic contractors for drilling and cementation works would be allowed a
margin of preference of 7 1/2%, in accordance with the Bank's standard
guidelines. Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures, estimated to
total about US$6 million, would be used in respect of items from a limited
number of qualified suppliers or items whose delivery periods are
critical, or for bid packages for equipment and materials costing less
than US$300,000. Under LIB procedures, quotations from at least four
suppliers from three different countries would be solicited. ONGC Force
Account expenditures and direct local purchases would be procured by ONGC



-21-
from single or limited suppliers as necessary for timely completion of the
project.
56.     All service and equipment contracts over US$1 million (about 15 in
number) would be subject to prior Bank review and such review would cover
95% of the value of the service contracts and about 80% of the value of
equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank. Other contracts would
be subject to selective post-award review. Retroactive financing in an
amount not exceeding US$2 million for expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1983 is proposed to cover costs for consultancy, seismic
surveys and equipment purchases (Paragraph 3, Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1990 and the closing
date would be September 30, 1990.
Project Implementation
57.     ONGC is managed by a Commission consisting of a Chairman, six
full-time Members (Finance, Materials, Personnel, Exploration, Offshore
and Onshore) and two part-time members representing GOI's Ministries o'
Finance and Energy, respectively. ONGC's main administrative and finan-
cial functions (planning, procurement and stores, accounting, personnel,
computer activities, etc.) are centralized in the corporate headquarters
at Dehra Dun in Uttar Pradesh, along with the main research and develop-
ment and training facilities. Operational staff are divided among three
regional offices (Central, Western and Eastern) and the Bombay Offshore
Project (BOP). Operational responsibility and the authority to commit
funds within their approved budgets have been delegated to Regional
Managers. ONGC would be responsible for implementing the project and the
Cambay Basin project would be supervised by the Western Region which is
responsible for all onshore operations of ONGC in Gujarat, Rajasthan,
Uttar Pradesh and the northern States.
58.     Given the importance of the project, however, ONGC has established
a separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Western Region
office to take day-to-day responsibility for implementing the project.
ONGC would provide the Bank with periodic project progress reports, to an
agreed format, as well as semi-annual unaudited financial reports during
project implementation within 45 days after the end of the reporting
period. ONGC would prepare a Project Completion Report within six months
of project completion or after completion of disbursements. ONGC's
audited accounts would be provided to the Bank not later than 12 months
after the end of the fiscal year (Sections 2.05 and 4.02, Project
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
59.     The economic benefits of the proposed project are taken to be the
savings of imports of crude oil and fuel oil resulting from the incremen-
tal production of crude oil and natural gas respectively. On the (base
case) assumption that the real economic price of crude oil and natural gas



-22-
will remain constant during the life of the project 1/ the economic rate
of return (ERR) for the project is 91%. This high ERR is to be expected
where the investment is in an already mature field with substantial sunk
costs. The ERR of the primary development of the heavy oil fields and the
gas fields, where there are few sunk costs, is still an acceptable 53% and
46%, respectively. An analysis of the sensitivity of the project to
alternative pessimistic assumptions indicated that, if investment costs
increase by 20%, or revenues drop by 20%, the project ERR changes to 70%
and 66%, respectively.  In a "worst case" scenario whereby, in addition to
the above, construction is delayed by a year, the ERR drops to a still
acceptable 34%. On an after-tax basis, the project's composite financial
rate of return is an acceptable 18% with a pay-back period of 8 years--
including the 5 year construction period.
60.     The principal project risks are those normally associated with
petroleum exploration and development, viz., geological and technological
risks. The geological risks include the possibility that. the seismic
survey will indicate only a few or small drillable prospects; the explora-
tion wells will indicate a Low potential for commercial quantities of
petroleum in the deep horizons; and/or the petroleum recovery factor from
producing fields may be less than anticipated, The technological risks
include the possibility that: the seismic survey techniques and opera-
tions may prove ineffective in the difficult environment of the Cambay
Gulf; that the drilling of the deep exploration wells may fail due to high
pressures and temperatures; and that the enhanced recovery methods may
only provide a marginal incremental recovery or prove to be too expensive
and therefore uneconomic, These geological and technological risks have
been minimized through the use of experienced seismic and drilling con-
tractors as well as consultants; and by making conservative assumptions
about the incremental petroleum recovery in the economic analysis. The
risks are acceptable.
Ecology and Safety
61.     The proposed project is expected to cause few environmental
problems upon completion.  During the implementation phase, there is
always some risk of surface blow-outs and the possibility of fire. The
use of sophisticated, industry-standard blow-out preventors and gas
monitoring equipment would keep these risks at industry standards--which
are acceptable. The chemicals used, and the by-products of implementing
EOR schemes are not judged to be a safety or environmental hazard, again,
so long as appropriate precautions are taken at every step of the
projects. To this end, ONGC would take all precautions, in line with
current industry practice, to protect workers and the environment both
during project implementation and subsequent operation. ONGC's insurance
pratctices were examined and found to be satisfactory (Section 2.08,
Project Agreement).
1/ Benchmark 1983 prices are: light crude oil US$29/Bbl, heavy crude
oil US$26/Bbl and natural gas US$4.50/OOOSCF.



-23-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and ONGC and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
ONGC would be made a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan
Agreement).
64.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.     I recommended that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
March 9, 1984






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) La
MOST                       (NDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOKE
1960-       1970'   ESTIMATE-          ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (TWtAND SQ. IH)
TOTAL                               3287.6      3287.6       3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                        1760.7      1780.5       1811.3
GNP PIR CAPITA (US$)                     70.0       100.0        260.0              276.7                     1028.6
ENERGY COSPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL FQUIVALENT)       114.0       165.0       210.0               398.4                      792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         18.0        19.8        23.7                21.5                       32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                            1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                              1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2140
POPULATION DENSITY
r                        PER SQ. KM.                        132.3        166.6       205.3               161.7                     260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            247.0        307.5       372.7               363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           40.9        42.7        39.7                36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                           54.5        54.2        57.2                59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                         4.6         3.1         3.0                 4.2                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                1.8         2.3         2.1                 1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                2.5         3.3         3.7                 4.0                        3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          43.7        40.0        35.4                29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          21.8        16.7        13.3                10.9                        9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.9         2,7         2.4                 2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           64.0      3782.0      6826.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        12.0         23.0               48.1                       46.6
FOOD AM) NUTRIrION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         98.0       102.0       107.0               111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        96.0        90.0        87.0                98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            54.0        50.0        47.0                56.7                       57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0        15.0        13.0/c              13.9                       14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           26.2        20.7        17.0                12.2                        7.6
bEALTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         43.2        48.1         52.2               59.6                       60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        165.0       139.0       121.2                96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0        33.0/d              32.9                       37.1
URBAN                .                ..        60.0        83.071              70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                 ..         6.0        20.071              22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        18.0        20.0/e              18.1                       41.4
URBAN                                 ..        85.0        87.07e              72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                            1.0         2.07.               4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.0       4890.0      3640.0/f            3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            10980.OI/   8300.0       5380.077            4797.9                     2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2180.0      1650.0      1310.0/d            1100.6                     1047.2
URBAN                                 ..          ..       370.07d             298.4                      651.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..     10410.07d            5941.6                     2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..           ..                 ..                       27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2         5.6          5.2/e
URBAN                                5.2         5.6          4.87..
RURAL                                5.2         5.6          5.37T
AVERAGE No. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6         2.8
URBAN                                2.6         2.8
RURAL                                2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _ _  _._   _ _   _ _   _  _   _ _   _      _ _ _   _ _   _ - -_ _ _- _ _   _ - _- _ _- _ _ _- _ _- _- _- _ _- _- _- - _- _ _- _ _- _ _- _ - -_ - -_ - -_ -_ _ _ - -_ -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDLA                     - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
b  RECENT                 LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970   ESTIMATEh-           ASIA l PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.0         73.0         76.0/f               96.1                       101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         90.07?              107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                    40.0         56.0         61.07f               82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      20.0         26.0         28.0/f               30.2                        44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.07o               37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                    10.0         15.0         18.0/f               22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/e                2.3                         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                               46.0         41.0         43.0/f               34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                             16.0         21.0                              18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 27.8         33.4         36.0                 53.5                         72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f                1.6                         9.;7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4_9         21.5         44.4                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ( "DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         19.7                 16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/_                3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      30.7         32.5         31.8                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.0         74.0         69.3                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    11.0         11.0         13.2                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0         39.3                 42.5                        38.6
MALE                                  5;7.0        52.4         51.9                 54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                                2;7.3        26.9         25.9                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1          1.1                  1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 207 OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7         48.97?       49.477               43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.77Th       7.07e                6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.27h       16.27e               17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        132.0                133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..        114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         40.3                 43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         50.7                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
_ /a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; Id 1976; Ie 1975; If 1978; /g 1962; /b 1964-65.
Nay 1983



ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITlOttS OF SOCIAL INDhICATORS
ItotesbAlthough the data are dt-e  fr,neare             enrly judged tha sost  sthrtai                 _.drliabl,. it1 shoul  aI   heotd that thy ey ott be totroottoosly
cuepsoeble  a. of the lok of statdrdieed7  deftotoasdcnet sdb  diferet    uoris-t  clrlecin  th  dat.   Tedts.xotee                                              eflt
deorb   orders of asotude 1   td ict   rns   o  ceettfd ettosjrdta cs   eee   onre
The M refeen. grfp  e~.rd.( thedsercootr  groop of the_ sobject  cout yoodi 2fcstygru   thseohthge   teaeica   ha   h                                                orygofo   h
affiitisl.   n tb  tefreoa grup ite  he ssrees ae pooisixo   eighed   rixheti  eso. fo  eah ixlcetr ed.sdfo  oly-heodajoity.f th  coetria  i
gTho  hoel dets       ha  hnietr   SInc  tecerg  of  coj.t  -crYs                   - es  2) th   itdi .tu . depnd  on1 tiheealbic ofdtadaotutrecstt st                           f the
e-oh.d.t 1990 date.  pdirulatii-x oer Nursing Person d                                                                                Poppatioddiidd ty  uaMrio.            rctcn
1915 eod 111 date     -PPcol`9 1t pt oospitsiled 19tota . uhs.cd                                                                                   tl-Ppito   ttl
-.P..   t'.                                                                I!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rbn   co   url  d -lndd h   th dO tsoioo d ubyr ofb. h fptlbd
cslcuiaoed by psreconestt  ethdds ur   Iobutas(97-I  hei);reurltalucetet. foppesltesetbuseet  peex                                                                          _ti .sate
1960. 1970, cod 19.1H                                              781 dtebrht  opiis  ncue   Oc   rlco/gnrs  haltl.d  sodp r..ra.
:heslse   oa  or d ruralhsitesoteia   odetrltct s
pSPiLlltt oll hTol.tyAfITiCh                                                    pocisuorthoapiala  se incodedonly  nder'ots,
ToalPrueto.  idSctltoeets     a  o   ol  I   96,  90byt 95                   teisust Seie  led -  oabne- o   dtein   to or l   -ffhega
date       -true   esptsl   dolded hy  the bluhe   ut ibeds
19u0g uouotee  191 90 n1998  dnt                                                                borgeSloo         dttehifd (toraooix rethouehid  -i-- total  urb.so   u
total popuistlon hy ego sodsen and their surtolity 7co   fetiit    o9houehld Por  delatca                             porpoa_e.
races.  yrojcttotpsr Retere  fost -tbttyrseacoetieeofultheeiaagtae o.ee                                               teco-ioe.tht   odue  aefstc
lene1le eat-Iglf    xottfc   it ndest  at    onr'   o-o  peteons pe r   rl- din sdlb urhen  en  rural occup-iedi  ctoent dooit,
csic   Icie  ecl  at  exlelie   opcttc  xtehiibitiog  If 775deloi  rxoool,helIogto  od    o-eetncsrco                                                                    o
cobnaits of    S.rait  coz   etlt     ltxd io    rjetu    opst :,,., . 1of dtotal, orhso  co.                         rrl.   oegIes..tory
Lino  th  b irth rso  is         y equa bto thetnthrate, a i le  the. ag                                         rfIrcCATItSO                       =.:
each generstioc of coec   re lsce tif    eaty     heoottr                                     Fnolno  ofIL use   tooctaylo   a   etoae   frset
Tersa_i    t   uplto   srahe      h   otoq  stat t     1 1ionaryt                                   ectcot  uplsar peld _ortboctth  oflilscolae
Pocoletloo heosoty         ....Yrt'tccx-~..  ofh..   .rt.  l_oeqtretlatfuyerofac                                                                       tpteyltoto;
Pet fen. bei" be -I                                                                           C--oc    oulttopreqteiooeoc(Ilhctre)o.ro .o geer d ucl tl,, ol ,otecrtaInigS ercin   o
Pet en.be. osioulturl land- Coeptd  tsaortt  goutrl  adgtrll   tldt
otly;... Y91,190  o   111de                                                                      toc...tl erolnet ("rcitho   eudrl-lcolxlisioio
popultion   1961  197, so  1911taco.                                                        Pui-echrrP   -I cr-1ro  cd  ercindsoTtisaenserildi
,,.henlo..ocif ctltoffot-                     I_tl- _c_alg _o   _ ree    toand                         riayntotayesltnddyuhooftahr   ohc
yea  pouleiotfor195-hI  '91- 1,  o      '90Ill.                                            repohogltte
peatippocto If ."Ll,jr 197h, tnt 1961          , daa  hC                                                 Iti'O"' EToutIh
ppltion;  190r97,ed          1991 doTs,     yd,                                                 care. ryto    esta   ih    oet~ealdsahloe     ets   n
iroasterreuctio   cat-Atecge  nthot o  daohtorsoocaoottl  ear  c             nilOtoryto hi lee
hertorit  eprdoclcepeiodOf  he  npeleneepreartge-pocticOslo  eceoer  lot toasutcoplaton)- fAlPtpi  ofcroy tes  fr 11t
ferIliy rtes  uesl y foe-eartoeagr  edIn  in196, 171,otthrodcete  o gnerl  ublc  pr teteut  f ppulcio  1 ocldeeat
100.lceatrctocalcoociand.ncsr-$,oheetdioorsi
Pesiyfatit-Acecoe  Moua(totoos)scuatuheuiccptcxeeone   oey_t otfo be-o lest  faytot1 _h_p1alelcess
ofVjrV bit-oto    eie    te   upie   fntoa                     lypann                                 coucrie- aholixh-d iloenllog. .....l-t- - d1C"
p      19e.Ttcleals   huotoouelt-ftolesttbudatt
deiyPaot-er    oreto   xtidcxn       ecnaeo   aro                                            gorlprI    e   huadppttln    nldoutcne    teoor
eoec o  chld-ear N0  te15-ti     .ert  oh. use.. h-lcth-co horotooceot   ontlrot-                                     outao   ol eclto                 ettesi   fet
oIl eorledcntn  teutcat crop.                                Ncspoctclrcclooocloothoeactpuolatlo)-hloetloutrag
yacl 0201' SOTt7ITIdN19gccu-at_o cf"alr                                                                                     rrulItco   reppr,dfndYsaproia
based to60 nePoalyergtpodce-p-e  x gttf116,   97,so  10
toyP.               197aieeupie   uers  toaeotc P'reduotioc, in ridls-ppy...                                      fxlIage   IrlflItln    torto   onre    r  o
roo -e,an   heng   Itsot.Oe   upie  rcud    nta  fr,sed,dopaelt   90,171sddOI  os
athoseol  le;19-5,17an 1          911 date, -                                                 and electicity, eaerPend gy   ot percen'i M -Idtage   fIt tallhrfre            0
cuter prtein, o  otolch 109cesto60  h  ota t70f            Tes                                96,070   n  191-dot.  dThodcurb hao-nb                 '   etlto  o   ae
etotete  reboo   tat  loe o  7  Irnsof  otl   rotinoct20groe                       eflcoog   geseteououccofolepoulaIo, ed  ongtie ten. 
Ch 'i (eas'h A  Ioth toc  (pe  t             Iofet)-  barth. teethe _.  perthoae        d  t         ereteofPrcttooohthochathud-tctntbrietS
ag  gou   14  eax,00chldeninthsag  ooo;  or000  ooo1t98rct d.-P   ... choent  (   orrc,  ouoo   20  er                                           bl ,so p-orsa -l proot o
coatotie datateclor   footlIfdtolox  196,1110  nd  981  atedlosohlte
obit;1960, 1970. ott  1981 duo.                                                               dodh   tepcoteo   uoteo                       ahio
ldot ct(lyOto (prthuct)-anoC..a. o   ooosute   o                                           isolxoe               thoolut   Ponrt  ooe       ....(t  prtoIa   - or atan .irua-
yer9  fso8    prthusn   lice  little   1990,          , 197  ott 0 1 9170t,  -heotR.   poet   ncx   eoll   ht  noclor   eoseiha  uha
ocos  0  tftOte  Ie  relofPoultlo  -toxl ubn,so  cro                     ocrttno l   deuao   ie   lu  eoottlto-tuttoureenehs o
Oushr o  popl  (tta,uro,  t  creP_ihasoohtcceou_f ffrooe
Ifabiortoppl   dlcua    cao   ufc    xeto   nroe   u                                                 lao  Os-tlogPo.. o  Toos   len                  f (tl percoita   e-lobsoad. rt
uccooteelnotod noorotuclaotxttron  prctactttboreboios iarlng pt ...rulreocoxuntyY.usht                                    Yu ot -tlirdo   ocraxp.         rcbl  t
oooiarytoll) 0  perenccee  f teirtrptosppato.Itopoonlcctofhecory   ItbetlenoPis  eriord                                                                     i frn fh rudol
Mrosoa uhlio  fouo.totr IFtonidot  loaeluioeto   0  ntr                                        ro   Oloje ten   fo  i1Er  oto   lig   traae
oae inccl   eetredoteace    tudlyy  htte-osoteo                                                 t  rural- tor-ont of population  -crha              ..an   rural  tho d are " lt t
rural -If    hro  pol   tto.uh    sotd rrro-_                                                      N-er-ord--hf focroftea
Tlpuo  atprotosorterreetosrpltot   hcoatto
sa    uluols  olc bc  ottteoxl,  it  or'th--rtsot,o                                                                                 tuoi   cht tuoi               -ga )tei
;:t-Ioertatoet-oebotrhtt.otootouootttotOocleotPdectttpre
prce   o   lio   neoltos.rp19



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82 -/                                                        ANNUAL RATE CF GROWTH (%, constant prices) -
USS Bln.      x                  1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices            165.38    100.0                         3.7               3.6              3.6               2.9
Gross Domestic Investment        41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving            37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08      -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.            %              Mil.        %                 US$      9 of National Average
Agriculture                      39.8              39.6            180.6      70.7               220             56
Industry                        25.2               25.1             32.2      12.6               783           199
Services                        35.5               35.3             42.6      16.7               833           211
Total/Average                   100.5             100.0            255.4    100.0                394            100
GOVERN?MENT FIINANCF
General Governiment           e/                      _    Central Government
Rs. Bln.        %  of  GDP                                    Rs. Bi',.        %  of  GDP
1981/82      1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                        1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                    285.77        19.4         19.1                               149.2F      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures                280.34        19.0         18.2                               155.03      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               5.43         0.4          0.9                                -5.75      -0.4        -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/             116.91         7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7         5.5
E:ternal Assistacce (net) d/         16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT ANt PRICES            .j70/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982                February 1983
',s Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Qua-i Money               110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5          615.5                      711.7
Bank Credit -o Government(net)    ' .6          69.2      77.6      76.4     94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2                          353.5
Bank Cr   - tc Commercial Secto.  65.2         156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                            487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                             April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                       27.4       30.3     34.6      36.5      41.2      44.1      43.3      42.5
.'holesaLe Pr 4e Index
'i970/71 = 100)                 100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                281.7            2-4 i287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price  nidex                7.7       -1.1       2.1       5.2       -        17.1     18.2       9.3             10.0               3  2.0
Bank Credit to Gove aiment (net)   15.0          6.3      11.1      16.3      16.0     25.6      29.6      19.1            22.7 y/           1   21.0
Bank C-edit to Commercial Sector  -j.5          22.7      20.7      12.6     20.3      21.5      17.0      18.7            20.9 i/                15.5 hi
a/  The p,c capita GNP ustimate is at market trices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to d,l1ars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick -stimrates, Central Statistical Organization,
c/ Computed from tiend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/ World Bank es:imates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been riected out.
f/ All loans a-sd advances to third ,arties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change 'om  end-M  ch 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/ Percentsge change rrom end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i' Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annextre Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ iMl.)                                                                                                           US5$ Mml.    %
Exports of Goods q/                7,948    8,504    8,511    8,800                    Engineering Goods                901       11
Imports of Goods                 -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                   Tea                               457        6
Trade Balance                     -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                    Gems                             759       10
NFS (net)                           1,042     1,365    1,120      1,088                Clothing                         556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470           6
Resource Balance                  -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                    Jute Manufactures                279        4
Iron Ore                         352        4
Interest Income (net) k/             287       600       212      -128                Cotton Textiles                   319        4
Net Transfers  1/                  1,852    2,771    1,577       1,668                 Sugar                            104        1
Others                         3,789       47
Balance on Current Account           -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                          Total                           7,986      100
Gross Disbursements                1,218     1,629     1,821     1,933                EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                       1,894    2,338    2,475    2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                -        1,035      690    1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                   18.3
All Other Items  o/                 -740       -130   -1,075       -358                Undisbursed                                 8.5
Outstanding, including                     26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)            -224       345    2,397       -182                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4,462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/         7,204    6,532    3,498       1,703                DEBT SERVICE RATlu iOR 1981/82  _/  n7  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING,as of Februarv 28. 1983
Imports (Petroleum) g/             4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                            US$ million
IBRD          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed            1,357         6,688
Undisbursed                          1,896         4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                        3,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971               US$1.00 - Rs 7.50                        Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333                                                   Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:          US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = US$O.137376
After end-June 1972                          Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981                  US$1.00   Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 = US$0.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982           :      US$1.00   Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00   US$0.104
J/ Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
IMF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of INF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/ Includes commercial borrowing.
p/ Excluding gold.
q/ Net of crude petroleum exports.



I



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                               1,688.0          -              -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -       4,759.0             -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -          83.0            6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -          27.7            6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -           16.4         -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -         105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -         150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -          18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -           15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0         -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -          30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -          20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -         150.0            7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5         -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Researc'                           -            8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0         -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -          14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -          85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -         196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -          38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                     (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                           Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979       National Cooperative Development
Corporation                          -            30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979       Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0          -             50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                 -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979       Punjab Irrigation                       -          129.0           61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                 -           48.0           15.25
911-IN    1979       Rural Electrification Corp. II          -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry            -           23.0            8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II                -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980       Gujarat Community Forestry              -           37.0           15.27
963-IN    1980       Inland Fisheries                        -           20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980       Population II                           -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980       Tamil Nadu Nutrition                    -           32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                    -          175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980       Cashewnut                               -           22.0           18.24
1027-IN    1980       Singrauli Thermal II                    -          300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980       Kerala Agricultural Extension           -           10.0            8.99
1033-IN    1980       Calcutta Urban Transport                -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980       Karnataka Sericulture                   -           54.0           41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -                80.0           61.54
1843-IN    1980       Industry DFC XIII                     100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980       Farakka Thermal Power                  25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980       Farakka Thermal Power                   -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981       Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0           -            23.46
1925-IN    1981       Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0              -              7.41
1072-IN    1981       Bihar Rural Roads                       -           35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981       Mahanadi Barrages                       -           83.0           72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II              -           42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                   -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                  -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981       Karnataka Tank Irrigation               -           54.0           53.45
1125-IN    1981       Hazira Fertilizer Project               -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981       Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.           -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981       Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.            -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II                -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981       National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -           125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982       Korba Thermal Power Project II          -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982       Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation         -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982       Tamil Nadu Newsprint                  1]00.0         -             61.58
1178-IN    1982       West Bengal Social Forestry             -           29.0           25.41
1185-IN    1982       Kanpur Urban Development                -           25.0           21.68
2051-IN    1982       ICICI XIV                            1]50.0          -            104.43
2076-IN    1982       Ramagundam Thermal Power II           300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982       ARDC IV                               190.0          -            121.32
1219-IN    1982       Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -                6.0            5.50
2123-IN    1982       Refineries Rationalization            200.0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982       Rural Electrification III             304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982       Kallada Irrigation                     20.3          -             20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh               -            -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           158.92
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development      222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III*       -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission*         250.7          -          250.70
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban*                24.1          -            24.10
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II*                 -          105.0         105.00
Total                                    5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid              1P251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/       3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established-at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
'Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.8         -        0.8
l960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -         1.4
L961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -        0.2
L963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4        1.0
l964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4       1.2
L964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8         1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
L967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                              4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.          7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyl,and Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8          -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.               15.7         -       15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.              8.3         -        8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Litd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   SoLd                            53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                         30.1         -       30.1
Cancelled                      16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                      112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                    82.9         -       82.9



ANNEX III
INDIA
CAMBAY BASIN PETROLEUM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Petroleum and the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission (ONGC).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the proiect
March 1983; July 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1984.
Section II:      Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
Ci) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
ONGC and GOI is a condition of Loan effectiveness
(para. 50).
(ii) GOI would undertake, by March 31, 1985, a heavy oil
utilization study, discuss with the Bank and take the
necessary steps to ensure utilization or sale of the
heavy o:il (para. 47).






ANNEX IV
INDIA
CAMBAY BASIN PETROLEUM PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                    Total
Proiect Component                               ICB         LCB        Other         N.A.a/    Cost
1. Exploration
Seismic, Drill. & Well Services            76.2        14.2         1.7 b/        3.7        95.7
(59.9)                                           (59.9)
Well Materials & Consumables                 7.8         2.8        2.4 c/        3.0        16.0
(1.7)                  (0.3)                     (2.0)
Sub Total                                  84.0        17.0        4.1            6.7       111.8
(61.6)                  (0.3)                    (61.9)
2. Development & Production
Drill. & Tech. Well Services              152.7         -          9.4           30.1       192.2
(118.2)                                          (118.2)
Well Materials & Consumables              193.2         28.6       27.6 d/       76.7       326.1
(11.0)                  (1.0)                    (12.0)
Force Account                               -           -         87.0 b/         -          87.0
Rigs, Equipment & Surf.
Facilities                                 79.0       102.7        2.8           32.7       217.2
(35.3)        _         (2.0)                    (37.3)
Sub Total                                 424.9       131.3      126.8          139.5      822.5
(164.5)                  (3.0)                   (167.5)
3. EOR Proiects
Drill. Equip. & Consumables                  5.0        -          2.7            2.8        10.5
(5.0)                 (2.0)                      (7.0)
4. Training & Tech. Assistance
Equip., Consult. & Supervision              1.5          1.9       4.5            1.0         8.9
(1.5)                  (4.0)                     (5.5)
TOTAL                                     515.4       150.2       138.1         150.0       953.7
(232.6)                   (9.3)                  (241.9)
a/ Customs Duties
b/ Force Account
c/ Includes fuel (US$1.3 million)
d/ Fuel only
Notes: (i) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
(ii) The front-end fee, US$0.6 million, is not included in the above table.






IBRD 17603
TD V          ,v,_,,__,               \                            ES                                                                  I N   D   I A                                NOVEMBER M BEWI
CAMBAY BASIN PETROLEUM PROJECT
L \  A2PfO-CXNVX                                                 OIL AND NATURAL GAS SECTOR
PROJECT AREA
AFGHANISTAN                  .-'IS                                                                                                              RECENT OILY I0GA DISCOVERIES
'                                J\   'I"~  S~' dJ                              <        OIL I GAS FIELDS
.,,   JASHMMU         -) ,)                                                       .    EXISTING PRODUCT PIPELINES
-                                                                                                                                   CRjDE PIPESK A SH M I R  lSEESSTING  RE PNEL I OUS
Sf  *'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~E.ISTING REFINERES
I                                                              P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETIROLEUM POXOCTUCS EITSVRISUIN ZONAL BOUNDARIES
5 '-. X  H/MA CHA            I         ~                          ~                  0  pAVIONAL CAPITAL. CITIES ANO TOWNS
~~  Wt~XN~UXXy ~~                    ________  STATE AND UNIMON TERITO- BOUNDARIES
.-  PRADESH                                                          IN~~~~~~~~~~~~.ETVRAIONAL BOUNEAVIES
PAKISTAN                                    0h
UNAB                 BehO GoD
3op  ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ,R aRBo              * ,  0                                                                                                        A F    IB_ ~S
WWLXJIB                    ODc h r                                  D un.c  H  I  N     A                    A,Id-Ub, I,,.3'
H ABYAN\A                    
/                     |E        tWDf DELHI             '~'                      we 1                                           A ',DELHI  d bV C/-
lITTurAR                         NEPAL                  ~           ( ?~                --- 
N>athora RRA DASK y A4 S r  A                                                       BHUTAN   <             \(
/ NORTH   /   ,                                                                                                                          A>O  .  -.iIigARI/BgB   I.  APINACHAZ
AOES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EADS
NORTH                                                               Gomkh                                                      iL ,oc                        PRA PH l  Ghho
Udal'lIS bEid                                                                          BoipP          '.            MG/IA\ IA
0                                                      EAST                   ~~~~~~~ANGLADESH                           
a                Al,X H YA <ESH 3<_k2 t ,\
WEST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
<                M~~11AHARIA SHrRA                   <           t           4         O/S                                                                                                 c
.                                                              ..   -  .   9   -   4H K   /   /  <   3   <    ................... _ : . v : - . .. - . t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!'~..    ... .... 
-Hy embd                                                   B           *               $)                   B  E   0 
.l                                                                   .                                          . LANK    - TA   .                     U                   V ..   . .
9\ ~~~~~~~~~~aMngolore a-t1  
S                             $ T          A/~~~~~~~~rMZ        DU       X
ZA                                                                                                                    X,'-E D.owf - UAWA
;   :  ,,,  n ,:  9,,  ig,                                  )S~~~RI LANKA\ 5i                          ;;  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                        W'  ,V    WWUX                rU. f'f;;  






