Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21153-RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$85 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
MUNICIPAL HEATING PROJECT
MARCH 1, 2001
Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ruble
Ruble 28.75 = US$1.00
US$0.0348 = Ruble 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CHP         Combined Heat and Power Plant
CHS         Central Heat Substation
CPDU        Central Project Development Unit
CPIU        Central Project Implementation Unit
DH          District Heating
DHE         District Heating Enterprise
DHW         Distributed Hot Water
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP         Environmental Mitigation Plan
FIRR        Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMA         Financial Management Assessment
GOSSTROI  State Committee for Construction and Housing Policy
Gcal        Giga Calorie
HOB         Heat-Only Boiler
lAS         International Accounting Standards
IHS         Individual Heat Substation
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IS          International Shopping
LIB         Limited International Bidding
LPMU        Local Project Management Unit
LRMC        Long-Run Marginal Cost
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MUE         Municipal Unitary Enterprise
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NFHR        National Foundation for Housing Reform
NPV         Net Present Value
NS          National Shopping
PEG         Procurement and Engineering Group
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PMR         Project Management Report
RAS         Russian Accounting Standards
SH          Space Heating
SLA         Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement
VAT         Value-Added Tax
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi
Sector Manager:    Peter D. Thomson
Task Team Leader:       Bjorn Hamso



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MUNICIPAL HEATING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        7
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            15
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                           19
4. Institutional                                                                       19
5. Environmental                                                                       21
6. Social                                                                              23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      26
2. Critical risks                                                                      27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      28



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             29
2. Other                                                                               29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    44
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                54
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        66
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             78
Annex 11: Project Financial Management Assessment                                         80
Annex 12: Social Assessment                                                               84
MAP(S)
Russian Federation, Municipal Heating Project



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Municipal Heating Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSEG
Date: March 1, 2001                               Team Leader: Bjorn Hamso
Country Manager/Director: Julian F. Schweitzer    Sector Manager/Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: P038551                               Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion, UY -
Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Enviromnent; Poverty Reduction; Public Sector;
Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ 3 Credit    [ Grant      [ ] Guarantee     [1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 85
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign        'Total
BORROWER                                                       1.66           0.00           1.66
IBRD                                                           0.00          85.00         85.00
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                               41.22           0.00         41.22
Total:                                                        42.88          85.00        127.88
Borrower: RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Responsible agency:
State Committee of Housing and Construction Policy (Gosstroi)/National Foundation for Housing Reform
Address: 6, Tverskoy boulevard, Moscow 103009, Russia
Contact Person: Ms. Marina Velikanova, Project Director
Tel: (7 095) 777 67 17              Fax: (7 095) 290 19 87              Email:
marina.velikanova@cpiu.org.ru
Other Agency(ies):
Municipal heating companies in about 9 cities, including Dubna, Kostroma, Mytishi, Nerungri, Syzran
Estimated disbursements(BankFY/USM):
FYr     7  2001 - 2002           2003      2004       2005      2006
Annual    0.85       12.71      20.15      23.58     19.11       8.60
Cumulative    0.85      13.56      33.71      57.29     76.40      85.00
Project implementation period: 2001- Dec. 31, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
XS PAD F..t P- M*, ZIOD



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the Municipal Heating Project is to alleviate the financial burden on municipal
governments associated with the supply of district heating to the local population by (i) improving the
operating efficiency of district heating systems through investments to save energy and reduce heat losses;
(ii) promoting sound cost recovery policies and commercial practices; and (iii) supporting government
efforts to improve the cost-effectiveness of subsidy programs through better targeting and delivery of
subsidies to low-income households.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators will be: (i) a reduction in the share of municipal budgets which are
allocated, either directly or indirectly, to the provision of municipal heating services; (ii) an increase in the
cost-effectiveness of central heat supply in terms of both energy efficiency and efficient utilization of
investments; and (iii) improvements in the quality of customer service, measured in terms of both the
quality of heat supply and the level of customer satisfaction.
Specific indicators to be monitored for the municipalities will include:
o   timely accomplishment of the planned improvements in the heating system;
*   achievement of projected increases in the fuel efficiency of heat production;
3   achievement of projected reductions in water and heat losses;
v overall level of subsidy for heating services;
* customer responses to surveys on the level of satisfaction with heat supply.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19897-RU          Date of latest CAS discussion: CAS Progress Report discussed
02/06/2001
The CAS report dated 12/01/99 focuses on an interim program for assistance during what is expected to be
a difficult period in terms of promoting a long-term reform agenda in Russia. It reaffirms the need for a
long-terrn relationship; focuses on poverty reduction by re-establishing foundations for growth and
strengthening targeted social safety nets; focuses on institutional barriers to growth and governance issues;
and, specifies an intensive portfolio management to improve impact in the Bank's lending program. This
focus has been confirned in the CAS progress report (21709-RU, January 11, 2001), which was discussed
by the Board on February 6, 2001 (R2001-7 [IFC/R2001-7]).
Among the targeted areas of Bank assistance are three critical areas of fiscal management: (i)
intergovernmental fiscal arrangements; (ii) subnational fiscal management; and (iii) analysis of expenditure
efficiency. The proposed Municipal Heating Project addresses in particular the issue of subnational fiscal
management, where the CAS objective is to "strengthen financial management policies and practices at
these levels of government". It also addresses expenditure analysis, which is to "focus primarily on
efficiency and equity issues in expenditures for education, health, and social protection". In addition, the
project will contribute to an improved standard of living in selected cities by improving the quality and
reliability of heat supply and by supporting the redirection of subsidies towards low-income households.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Municipal heating represents one of the key infrastructure services in Russia, with district heating systems
meeting the demands of about 75% of the heat consumers in the country. At the same time, it represents
one of the main items of budgetary expenditure at the municipal level, often accounting for in excess of 40
percent of municipal government expenditures. The proposed project will rehabilitate only 0.2% of the DH
sector in Russia, thus indicating a huge potential left for rehabilitation.
The breakdown of the Soviet economic system and the transition to a market economy have proved
particularly difficult for many of the infrastructure services. The problems in the heating sector are
exacerbated by an old infrastructure that was designed without regard for energy efficiency and by a
perception that municipal heating was a public service which should be supplied on non-commercial terms,
particularly in light of the general hardships associated with the transition. As a result, the sector now
faces a number of major issues, including:
*   Lack of investment funds. Municipal funding is scarce, at least in part because of inadequate tariffs
for heat supply. In addition, the sector is currently not attractive to private sector investments owing to
the lack of a suitable legal and regulatory framework, low profit potential, high investment needs, and
high risks both at the country and the local level.
*   Generally high cost of supply. The infrastructure has been poorly maintained and is inefficiently
designed and operated due to the lack of guiding price signals. Downstream infrastructure is
characterized by high heat and water losses. With exports being an altemative use of domestically
produced oil, gas, and coal, the economic cost of input fuels to the district heating systems are high,
even though prices on these fuels currently are low compared to neighboring countries.
•   Inflexible technical design (constant flow/variable temperature). The system  is supply driven.
Consumers have virtually no control over their heat consumption or comfort level. At the same time,
the system is unable to respond to varying ambient temperatures at consumer/building level, and it is
therefore impossible to effectively match demand with supply on building level.
*   Inadequate tariffs. Typically, district heating tariffs do not provide sufficient cost recovery to provide
for sustainable operations of the networks. Depreciation, which is based on outdated asset values, is
insufficient to provide adequate cash flow for asset replacement. Allowed profit margins are minimal,
many operating costs are calculated on the basis of "normatives", and tariff adjustments are infrequent
and in many cases do not fully cover the full escalation of operating costs. Unfunded "privileges" to
parts of the population - in the form of substantial reductions in tariffs - worsen the situation.
*   Arrears. Non-payment is generally high, often due to lack of payment discipline and lack of available
remedies, or willingness to use available remedies. So-called budget organizations (public buildings)
are among the most notorious non-payers.
In the district heating sector, the Government's strategy focuses on the following:
*   Shifting from general to targeted subsidies. The drain on municipal budgets from heat subsidies to
residential customers is one of the driving forces for streamlining the district heating operations. The
govermment has adopted standards for increased cost recovery through household tariffs, which
envision the customers bearing the full cost of supply by 2007. At the same time, the government is
strongly supporting specific subsidies for low-income families.
*   Local ownership, i.e. transfer of local, small/medium scale heat production and distribution from state
to municipal ownership and control. This transfer has essentially taken place. Although heating
companies are candidates for privatization, this is not an explicit policy, and many of the assets are
considered "strategic" and specifically barred from privatization. However, in many instances the
- 3 -



district heating departments have been set up as 'municipal unitary enterprises", responsible for
operating the heating networks under service agreements with the municipal administration.
*   Promoting private sector participation. The recent (June 2000) govemment paper on priority
objectives for 2000-2001 includes the developmnent of initial measures to introduce the practice of
concession agreements for management of communal infrastructure.
* Financial viability of district heating companies. The government has established a schedule for
increasing the share of costs covered by collections from the end consumers. In addition, guidelines for
setting tariffs are being reviewed with a view to establishing a better basis for financially viable
operations. Priority objectives also include the development of effective measures for regulation of
local natural monopolies such as central heating and water supply.
*   Efficient and reliable heat supply. The government wants to improve the quality of heat supply, and
over time plans to move to metered heat supply for all classes of customers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will seek to address the following sector issues:
*   Reduce the cost of heat supply in a number of cities including, but not limited to Dubna, Kostroma,
Mytishi, Nerungri, Syzran, through system repair and rehabilitation.
*   Introduce more modern technology to improve system efficiency as well as the quality of heat
supply.
* Establish technical conditions for converting to a consumer-oriented policy by providing heat
metering and mechanisms for consumer control of supply at the building level.
*   Improve the financial viability of the municipalities and the heating enterprises in terms of cost
recovery and cash collections by establishing minimum targets for city participation in the project both
prior to Board presentation and during the subsequent period of project implementation.
-   Assist the cities in improving the subsidy system to low-income households against the background
of increasing cost recovery and thus higher heat prices.
Household surveys have been conducted during project preparation in three of the participating cities
(Mytishi, Syzran, Nerungri) and a fourth city (Lytkarino). Experience from these cities is expected to be of
value also for other cities, and cooperation with the municipalities as to streamlining their subsidy
programs has been initiated.
To improve the financial burden on municipalities through better heat delivery to the population, the project
could have focused on i) the renovation of combined heat and power stations (CHP); ii) rehabilitation of the
local district heating distribution system; and/or iii) demand side management It was chosen to rehabilitate
the local district heating system (including boilers, pipelines, and substations) on the basis of economic
returns, supported by assessments of the rapid deterioration of the systems. In addition, other projects have
experienced execution problems and added organizational complexities in the area of demand side
management by means of building upgrades.
Most of the investment funds in the project are used for upgrading and rehabilitating the existing technical
infrastructure for providing heat to the population. The investments would ideally be supported by technical
assistance to improve the general institutional capacity of the municipalities and district heating entities.
However, the municipalities participating in the project currently have limited borrowing capacity and it
was therefore agreed to allocate the bulk of the loan funds to maintaining and preserving the physical
systems, and to seek donor assistance in financing a large part of the institutional support. Such assistance
is therefore being sought, outside the scope of the project, through donor-funded twinning arrangements
- 4 -



with advanced district heating companies in Western Europe.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will finance investments in the rehabilitation and partial replacement of municipal heating
systems in about 9 cities. Components include boilers, transmission network, interconnection network,
distribution networks, substations, and heat metering. In addition, financing will be provided for technical
assistance in project implementation (procurement, engineering and supervision), for recurrent costs of the
Central PIU, for financial monitoring and audits, and for research on key issues related to the development
of the municipal heating sector.
At the time of loan negotiations, detailed investment components had been developed and appraised for 5
cities (Kostroma, Dubna, Mytishi, Nerungri and Syzran). In addition, detailed feasibility studies were
under way in a number of other cities, and were nearing completion in at least 4 (Krasnoyarsk, Volgograd,
Kazan, Tambov). The project therefore includes provision for sub-projects in a limited number of
additional cities, similar in nature to those identified in the initial 5 cities. However, financing of these
additional cities is linked to the satisfactory appraisal of the additional subprojects, and the completion of
subsidiary loan and guarantee agreements not later than March 31, 2002.
1. Sytem Rhabiitation          Other Power &       70.36       55.0     67.54       79.5
Energy
Conversion
2. Technical Assistance -                               4.10        3.2      4.10        4.8
Procurement, Engineering, Supervision
3. Central Project Implementation                       2.90        2.3      2.90        3.4
4. Institutional Support           Other Urban          2.50        2.0      2.50        2.9
Development
5. Taxes and Duties                                    23.02       18.0      0.00        0.0
6. Contingencies                                        9.54        7.5      7.11        8.4
Total Project Costs                  112.42      87.9      84.15      99.0
Interest during construction                 14.61      11.4       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                     0.85       0.7       0.85       1.0
Total Financing Required                    127.88     100.0     85.00      100.0
1.1 System Rehabilitation
The system rehabilitation component of the project includes a number of high-priority investments in
repairing and replacing sections of the district heating systems in the participating cities and upgrading
these sections to modem, more efficient technology. While the investments program varies from city to city
depending on needs, the projects generally include such investments as replacing central heat substations
- 5-



(CHS) with building-level individual heat substations (IHS) and converting from a four-pipe to a two-pipe
system, upgrading selected central heat substations (CHS) by replacing heat exchangers and adding
automated control systems, replacing sections of the transmission and distribution networks with
pre-insulated pipes, boiler replacement, metering, and network re-design to optimize the efficiency of
supply.
The investments in the first 5 cities will yield partly modernized systems including features such as variable
flow and consumer control, whose benefits in terms of improved energy efficiency and reduced maintenance
needs have been demonstrated in other projects in the region. Key indicators describing the size of the
existing systems in the five cities, the planned investments, and the proportion of the existing systems that
will be rehabilitated are summarized in the table below:
DHW Network, Elimination       km                                               13i6 .  _E
Central Heat Substations,      pcs   169    1    54        64      24    26    46   27%
Rehabilitation                                   ___ 1_5 35__9                         6
Central Heat Substations,      pcs                                               6    4%
Elimination                  l
Transmission Network           km    169  38.9  36.8 148.6    10.5  34.3  __
Interconnection Network        km                                                            5.5
Rehabilitation of Existing Boiler   pcs  143    5  61      45             32     4    3%
Houses
Ilnstallation of New Boiler Houses I pcs T  I   r       I        l      l      l     |        2
The total base cost of the investment projects in the appraised cities is $35.2 million (excluding
contingencies, taxes and duties). This represents half of the total amount proposed for investments in
technical components.
1.2 Technical Assistance - Procurement, Engineering, Supervision
This component will provide support to the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) in project
implementation. While the consultants will be expected to work in and together with the cities, their
primary responsibility will be to assist the CPIU in ensuring that the projects are carried out in a timely and
efficient manner, in compliance with procurement guidelines and with best practices for design, engineering
and installation. The Procurement and Engineering Group (PEG) will be selected in accordance with the
terms of reference attached in the Project Implementation Plan. It will assist in elaboration of the bidding
documents of all investments in the project, and in carrying out procurement functions in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines. Further, PEG will provide supervision of
construction services to ensure that the equipment and civil works meet adequate standards of quality and
that bills provided by suppliers and contractors are correct. PEG costs will be financed from the subsidiary
loans of each of the cities in proportion to the size of the respective subsidiary loans.
- 6 -



1.3 Central Project Implementation
The CPIU set up in the National Foundation for Housing Reform will manage and supervise project
implementation on behalf of Gosstroi, the federal agency responsible for the project. The CPIU will be the
main link with the Bank and fully responsible for ensuring that the project is implemented efficiently in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. The nucleus of the CPIU comes from the CPDU,
which has been in charge of the preparation of the project. This project component also includes financial
audit of the project accounts maintained by the CPIU, together with a review of the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditure. In addition, it includes funding for monitoring of the creditworthiness and the
solvency of the participating cities.
1.4 Institutional support
This component is targeted to support the overall development of the district heating and communal
services sector through focused research on areas of particular relevance to achieving desired sector
reforms. In particular, studies will focus on (i) options and actions necessary to improve pricing and
regulation; (ii) assessment of restructuring options for the sector (including the potential role of
competition and the promotion of greater private sector involvement), together with detailed action plans to
advance this process; (iii) assessment of financial structures and mechanisms which will ensure an
appropriate and equitable flow of benefits to investors in the sector (including municipalities); and (iv)
assessment of energy cost-related issues of social protection for low-income families.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is expected to support the following key policy and institutional reforms in the provision of
district heating services in the participating cities:
* Change in the pricing of district heating service to a transparent system based on cost-recovery
principles and including all cost factors;
* Change to metered heat supply for all classes of consumers in those substations to be rehabilitated;
* Change in the tariff subsidy policy to reduce the financial burden on municipalities and protect the
tuly poor rather than broad categories of preferred customers that do not necessarily need the
tariff subsidies heating companies are required to give them;
* Change in the sources of sector financing from government contributions to consumer tariffs; and
* Change in the criteria and approach to selecting investments in the district heating sector, from a
view that focuses only on capacity expansions to one that supports adequate maintenance and
improvements in operational efficiency.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits of the project-financed investments include: (i) extension of the life of heating network assets; (ii)
reduced fuel consumption through more efficient equipment and reduced losses; (iii) more efficient delivery
of heat through better temperature controls and upgrading of substations; (iv) reduced operation and
maintenance costs, as well as avoided investment in pipes and substations; (v) improved quality of heating
services; and (vi) ultimately lower heating costs to consumers and lower levels of heating-related costs to be
paid by municipalities. Benefits related to the institutional and policy initiatives include improved targeting
and delivery of subsidies to low-income households, and reductions in the overall cost of subsidies paid by
municipal budgets.
The target population includes specifically the heating customers (primarily households and institutions) in
- 7 -



areas of the municipalities which are being rehabilitated, and more broadly the population of participating
municipalities, which will benefit from the reduction in subsidy burdens placed on their municipal
administrations.
Additionally, the lessons learned during the implementation of the project over a wide range of local
conditions will be used to prepare replicable methodologies and case studies to guide the government
program of municipal services reform aimed at helping municipal local governments and heating companies
in rehabilitating the almost 99.8% of all DH volume remaining outside of the proposed project in Russia.
Reforms and methodologies developed and tested during project implementation (including tariffs, heating
company relationship with local governments, commercial systems, metering strategy, and network
management strategy) will support replication of the lessons learned during project implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agencies. The executing agencies include the municipal administrations in about 9 cities,
including Dubna, Kostroma, Mytishi, Nerungri, Syzran, together with a Central Project Implementation
Unit to be established within the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) under the auspices of
the State Committee for Construction and Housing Policy (Gosstroi) of the Russian Federation.
The Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, and for monitoring, jointly with Gosstroi, the financial situation of the cities and
the heating companies. Overall management and supervision of the project will be the responsibility of
Gosstroi. Day-to-day implementation and administration of the project will be executed on behalf of
Gosstroi by the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR). The NFHR is a Russian non-profit
organization that is supervised by a Council comprising representatives of key ministries and chaired by
Gosstroi, which is spearheading the government's program of reform in the communal services sector. The
NFHR already supervises the Bank-financed Housing Loan (RU-3850) Project and the St. Petersburg
Center City Rehabilitation Project (RU-4144).
During project preparation, a Central Project Development Unit (CPDU) was created within NFHR. This
unit will form the core of the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU). The CPIU together with NFHR
general departments will be responsible for all aspects of project administration, management, coordination,
project-related financial management, accounting, procurement, disbursement, engagement of outside
auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their dissemination, and preparation of
progress reports and annual reports for the project.
Municipalities would form local project management units (LPMUs) with representation from the local
administration and the participating Municipal Unitary Enterprises (MUEs) responsible for heating
networks. Technical aspects of project implementation would be delegated to these participating MUEs
under sub-project implementation agreements.
Financing Plan. The total cost of the project is estimated at $127.88 million equivalent. An IBRD loan of
$85 million would be provided to finance equipment and technical assistance procured in accordance with
competitive procurement procedures. The remaining $42.88 million would be financed by the municipal
administrations in participating cities, and by the MoF.
At present, five cities are in compliance with all of the prior conditions for Board presentation. The total
project size for these cities (including a provision for approximately $7.1 million in spending by the Federal
Government to finance implementation support) is $68.3 million, of which $44.9 million would be financed
- 8 -



by the IBRD loan. However, Kostroma was (at time of submitting this project to the Board) in arrears to
the Federal budget with respect to repayment of a loan, and the MoF has indicated that Kostroma will have
to clear these arrears before being allowed to participate in the Municipal Heating Project. Other cities
have proposed viable projects. Provisions are made within the loan to finance the projects of additional
cities, provided they have met all conditions, including signing of Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee
Agreements (SLAs), not later than March 31, 2002. It is expected that about 9 cities may be involved in
the project, although a maximum number has not been set. Subsidiary loan amounts shall not be less than
$3 million for any participating city.
Lending Arrangements. IBRD would extend a loan of $85 million to the Government on standard terms
for US$ Single Currency loans with a 17 year term including 5 years grace. The MoF would on-lend these
funds to participating cities in amounts sufficient to cover the loan-financed proportion of their investments
plus the cities' share of project management expenses.
The MoF would enter into SLAs with the cities and their oblast administrations. It has been agreed with
the MoF that funds would be on-lent at the IBRD lending rate plus a margin of 2.0 percent. Any
commitment fees incurred by the Govermment would be passed on to the cities in proportion to their
undisbursed balances. Repayment terms for the subsidiary loans would be 15 years, including up to 5
years grace period. Signing and effectiveness of at least four SLAs satisfactory to the Bank is a condition
of project effectiveness.
The Federal component of the project ($7.1 million to cover policy research, monitoring and administrative
expenses of the CPDU) would be administered by the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR)
on behalf of Gosstroi as the line agency in charge of the project.
With respect to the commitment fees for the funds which would be set aside for the cities that are unlikely
to be ready to sign SLAs at the time of loan effectiveness, the MoF has agreed to cover the fees on these
funds until such time as the additional SLAs are signed. Assuming that the other projects proceed, the
MoF could be reimbursed by the cities. If the cities fail to meet the required conditions prior to the
deadline, the cost to the MoF would be modest.
Project Financial Management Arrangements. A Financial Management Capacity Assessment (FMCA)
was carried out for the project and a summary of the report is attached in Annex 11. Necessary
improvements for strengthening the financial management capacity of the project entities to meet the Bank's
requirements were identified and discussed with the counterparts as part of the FMCA. These
improvements were implemented under a time-bound Action Plan (Annex 11), and the Bank's Financial
Management Specialist has now certified the project as meeting minimum financial management
requirements of the Bank and issued a 4-B LACI certificate.
Financial Management System: Project accounts and financial reporting to the Bank, both at the project
and the entity level, will be the responsibility of the NFHR. At the time of the initial assessment, the
NFHR's financial management systems, including internal controls, accounting, and reporting were not
meeting financial management requirements of the Bank. An action plan was prepared to ensure that a
Bank-compliant financial management system would be in place prior to Board presentation. The required
steps have now been completed. The system will: (i) have appropriate internal controls; (ii) reliably record
and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; and (iii) provide sufficient
financial information for managing and monitoring project activities. Project Management Reports
(PMRs) will be submitted by the NFHR to the Bank quarterly and annually. PMRs will not be used for
disbursement purposes of this project. Formats of the PMRs and the timing of submission of the first PMR
-9-



were confirmed at negotiations. The project accounts will be maintained by the NFHR on the basis of
information supplied by the LPMUs. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component, including
for individual subprojects, in accordance with a Chart of Accounts acceptable to the Bank. The LPMUs
will be responsible for maintaining satisfactory records (including a fixed assets register for project-related
investments in a manner acceptable to the Bank) related to their individual subprojects, and submit the
information to the NFHR for review and incorporation into the consolidated accounts. NFHR will upgrade
existing Platinum accounting software to enable the system to prepare the reports automatically.
Appropriate staffing for financial management functions (including training and technical assistance as
required) at the NFHR was discussed under the FMCA. NFHR has submitted a satisfactory draft
Operational Manual for the project, which details inter alia the financial management procedures and
practices to be followed.
Auditing: The project financial statements, the Special Account, and Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
will be audited annually during project implementation, in accordance with Intemational Standards on
Auditing (ISA), by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank. Since NFHR has already been
submitting audit reports to the Bank as required under the Housing Project, it is expected that the auditor
employed for this purpose will also undertake the auditing of the proposed project. The audit will cover
both the project and the entity NFHR financial statements, prepared in accordance with Intemational
Accounting Standards (IAS). The audit will include in particular: (i) an assessment of the adequacy of
accounting and intemal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions, and
ensure safe custody of the project-financed assets; (ii) a deternination of whether adequate docunentation
has been retained for all relevant transactions; (iii) a verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank
are eligible for financing; and (iv) identification of any ineligible expenditures. Copies of the audit report
will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the Borrower's fiscal year. Special attention
would be paid to confinn the transparency and accountability of the use of funds by the subborrower.
Satisfactory terms of reference for the audit have been prepared and submitted to the Bank. Terms of
Reference and selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank every year. Costs of project audit and
part of the cost of the entity audit (cost-sharing with other projects being implemented by NFHR) will be
financed from incremental operating costs category of the loan. The auditors should be under contract by
effectiveness of the project.
Project Procurement Arrangements. Civil works, goods and services of the Bank-financed components
will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. A qualified Procurement and Engineering Group
(PEG) will be hired to assist the CPIU and to ensure compliance with the Bank's procurement rules. A draft
TOR is included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The NFHR will have a senior procurement
specialist on staff to supervise the PEG.
LPMUs will work with the CPIU and the PEG in developing and evaluating bid packages for competitively
procured goods and services, and will assist in local construction supervision on behalf of the municipal
administration.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Reporting arrangements for the transition period have been discussed under
the FMCA. Initially, the financial statements to be submitted will include the following for the project: (i)
project sources and uses of funds; (ii) uses of funds by project activity; (iii) project balance sheet; (iv)
project cash withdrawals; and (v) Special Account statement; and for the entity NFHR (i) balance sheet;
(ii) income statement; and (iii) cash flow statement. The financial statements will be submitted quarterly
within one month of the end of the relevant quarter. Audit reports by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank will be submitted annually. The CPIU will also submit other reports in regard to progress of project
implementation as follows: (i) procurement (semi-annually); and (ii) project output monitoring indicators
- 10-



(annually). An Early Implementation Assessment will be undertaken in the first year of implementation.
The CPIU, with input from the LPMUs, will prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a
Project Mid-Term Review. The CPIU and the LPMUs will also prepare and submit an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan. Included in the ICR will
be an assessment of the execution of the project, its costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the
performance of the Borrower, the cities/heating companies, the Bank and other agencies involved in the
project regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project is aimed at reducing the financial burden on municipalities associated with the supply
of district heating to the local population. The selected alternative consists of supporting small and
affordable investrnents in sound long-term solutions to district heating rehabilitation in a number of
municipalities. A number of alternatives were considered. These, together with the main reasons for their
rejection, are summarized below:
- Provide support for the divestiture/privatization of municipal heating networks. This could have entailed
technical assistance in the development of appropriate legal and regulatory structures, as well as financing
of assistance in privatization. The option was rejected because it was considered that considerable time
would be needed in order to establish a regulatory framework which would be sufficient to attract credible
investors to the sector. In the interim, the quality and cost of heat supply would continue to deteriorate.
* Finance complete modernization and rehabilitation of the heating networks in a single city. While this
would have provided a comprehensive model for other cities, few cities had the financial capacity to
support an investment of this magnitude. In addition, the demonstration impact would have been lessened,
and the support for government reform initiatives would have been limited to a single city.
* Finance conversion of existing central heating systems to decentralized, multi-fuel systems in a city where
this represented a least-cost solution. While there are many instances where decentralized heating systems
might prove to be the least-cost solution, in most cities the rehabilitation and modernization of existing
district heating systems is both least cost and easiest to implement in an incremental and rapid manner.
* Undertake an APL (Adjustable Program Lending) with a limited number of cities, linking a program of
increasingly sophisticated investments with a deepening program of policy reforrn. The drawbacks of this
approach are similar to those associated with complete rehabilitation of the systems in a single city.
* Focus on demand-side rather than supply-side initiatives. This approach represents the core philosophy
of the ongoing Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project. It was not considered appropriate to replicate this
project at the present time.
It was therefore decided to pursue an approach of financing affordable and urgently needed investments in
a number of cities, each of which was self-selected by virtue of meeting a number of conditions for
participation in the project.
- 11 -



2. Major related projects fimanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Poland, Heat Supply       HS           HS
gas emissions, extending lifetime of    Restructuring and Conservation
fixed assets                     project,
3377/78/79/81/82-POL,
$165m, 1991
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Estonia, DH Rehabilitation  S           S
gas emissions                    Project, 3740-EE, $38m, 1995
Reduction of heat supply costs and    Latvia, Jelgava DH           S            S
emissions, corporatization of JDHC    Rehabilitation Project,
3890-LV, $14m, 1995
DH system rehabilitation after war    Bosnia, Sarajevo DH         S             S
damages                          Emergency Rehabilitation
Project, 1996
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Poland, Katowice Heat Supply  S         S
gas emissions, extending lifetime of    and Conservation Project,
fixed assets                     3809-POL, $45m, 1995
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Ukraine, Kiev District Heating  S       S
gas emissions                    Improvement Project, $200m,
1999
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Russia, Energy Efficiency  U            U
gas emissions                    Project, 3876-RUS, $70
million, 1995
Improved energy efficiency of divested Russia, Enterprise Housing  S            S
housing                          Divestiture Project, 4012-RUS,
$300m, 1996
Reduction of heat supply costs and  Bulgaria DH 1 Project (mainly
introducing DSM measures in buildings Sofia and Pernik, Sofia with
EBRD), $50m, 2001
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Latvia, Riga DH Project,
gas emission                      $37m, 2000
Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Lithuania, Vilnius DH/CHP
gas emissions                     Project, $35m, 2001
- 12 -



Reduction of heat supply costs and flue Poland, Krakow Energy
gas emissions, introducing ESCO   Efficiency Project, $15m, 2001
Other development agencies
Several studies by EBRD, EU, TACIS,
PHARE, bilateral donors, no projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The first five projects listed above (Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Bosnia and Katowice/Poland) are in the
completion phase and the three next ones (Kiev and both projects in Russia) are under implementation. The
remaining ones are either in the Appraisal or Loan Negotiation stage.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from other Bank-financed DH related projects under implementation in Poland, Estonia,
Latvia, China, and Ukraine include the findings that: (a) strong project ownership and advanced
preparation of project components is necessary for timely implementation; (b) the relationship between
prices and incomes changes rapidly in countries in transition, and the heating service which appears largely
unaffordable may become easier to afford in a relatively short period of time. Rising incomes also affect
the local costs, which should not be underestimated, (c) end-user efficiency improvements, which initially
appear difficult to support due to building ownership and affordability reasons, may be possible to support
on a pilot level; (d) strong support from municipalities is needed to resolve collections and payment issues;
and (e) decentralized project management (including management of procurement) usually is more effective
than centralized implementation arrangements. With reference to this last item, however, a centralized
project implementation unit (CPIU) has proved to be a sound solution in Russia when dealing with rather
small district heating enterprises and municipalities, based on the experiences from two ongoing projects:
the Energy Efficiency Project and the Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project.
Based on the experiences in Russia and Poland, the Supply & Installation method was chosen for major
joint procurement of goods and works, because (i) it ensures fast implementation of the project while
having an experienced contractor responsible for both supply and installation; (ii) it creates clear
responsibilities with the beneficiary city and the supplier in each city by eliminating possible problems on
the border lines of separate suppliers; (iii) it uses local labor and manufacturing resources in an economic
and efficient way while having the experienced contractor responsible for local work results; and (iv) it
helps cities in their financial contribution problems by allocating the impacts through the entire loan period
instead of requiring a bullet amount in the actual implementation year.
In Poland, all the four involved companies acknowledged the crucial importance of training provided by the
consultants and manufacturers in the course of the project. Training helped the management and staff to
focus on the right and efficient measures to improve the district heating system reliability, economy, and
performance, as demanded by the customers in a competitive business environment. Thanks to enhanced
management capability, the system performance was improved in the entire system, also in those areas
where no investments were done. While the borrowing capacity of the Russian cities is presently
insufficient to support an extensive training program, grant financing is being solicited to support twinning
programs with Westem district heating companies for the participating cities.
- 13-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Gosstroi's efforts in organizing the project selection seminar in June 23-24, 1997, and the continued
support during project preparation activities after the financial crisis of 1998, indicated strong public sector
support for the sector reform agenda. Also, the willingness of the government to assume loan repayment for
the activities of the Institutional Support Services and the financing of the CPIU indicate a keen interest by
the government to include the lessons learned from this project in the sector reform. Official commitment
and ownership by the Borrower is indicated by (a) an official endorsement of the project concept by the
Government (protocol, CO-P2-5pr, April 14/97); (b) the appointment of a Project Coordinator in the State
Committee for Housing and Construction Policy; (c) the appointment of counterpart personnel at the
National Foundation for Housing Reform.
Prospective municipal candidates for participation in the project, in full knowledge of future project
conditionalities, particularly as regards necessary increases in tariffs, have complied with a series of
performance benchmarks throughout the project preparation phase, including bearing responsibility for
preparation of feasibility studies, establishing counterpart project preparation/implementation teams,
reorganizing their heating departments into Municipal Unitary Enterprises, and adhering to increasingly
stringent financial performance targets. Their continued support, even after the significant reduction of
sub-loan sizes related to the smaller borrowing capacity of the cities, indicates a strong commitment to the
project approach. Moreover, additional cities continue to prepare projects and adopt reforms in the hopes
that there may be follow-on financing.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement is regarded as important in supporting the realization of priority programs under
the present conditions of severe resource constraints and minimal opportunities to attract private sector
capital. The Bank's involvement is also important to ensure the development of appropriate policies to
support sustainable operations of municipal services. Finally, Bank involvement will help support the
development of commercially based tariffs, which would reduce the barriers to private sector investment.
The fixed assets of district heating in Russia are deteriorating rapidly, largely because the local fnancing
resources are insufficient even to cover the relatively high maintenance demands. While this project deals
with only 0.2% of the district heating volume in Russia, it is the first comprehensive system-level
rehabilitation in the country and is therefore an important demonstration of commissioning of modem
district heating technology and know-how. In order to facilitate the demonstration, the Bank's support is
crucial. The project will also provide experience in the rehabilitation of a broad range of systems,
encompassing small-housing areas as well as large blocks of flats, in cold and arctic climates, and in major
and minor urban centers, as well as less-industrialized satellites to major cities.
The Bank is also playing an important catalytic role in attracting significant donor support for district
heating sector reform and rehabilitation. The Bank has been able to mobilize technical and financial
support from six bilateral donors (Finland, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the U.S.) in the
preparation phase, and has received indications of interest from donors in providing further assistance both
in training and in support for social programs.
- 14 -



Table 5.1: Donor support for Project Preparation
Inttutional, financial and technical analysis (CPDU)    PHDJapan
Fiacial analysisFiln
Technical analysis                                        SIDA Sweden, The
Netherlands, USTDA
Environmental analysis                                    Holland
Social Assessment                                         Germany
Preparation of engineering design docurnents for the first yeers    Finland
activ ities                                                      _ _ 
Technical seminar, June 23-24, 1997                       SDSwden
Financial seminar, July 14-16, 1998
Financial seminar, May 1998 in Finland                    Finland
Financial and technical seminar, May 1999                 Finland, SIDA Sweden
Because of the limited borrowing capacity of the cities, grant financing is being sought to support (i)
institutional development of the heating companies; and (ii) improved targeting of social protection
programs. Funding of twinning arrangements between the participating Russian and foreign District
Heating Enterprises (DHEs) has been discussed with EU/TACIS and other European govertnient agencies.
The government of Finland, together with the District Heating Association of Finland have expressed
interest in supporting twinning with at least two cities.
Financing from bilateral financing agencies will be sought for support to the Social Services Departments
in the participating cities, beyond the work that has been done in this area during project preparation. This
support would include technical assistance in carrying out continuing social surveys, in introducing better
procedures for targeting of benefits to low-income households, and in improving the operating effectiveness
of these departments through the acquisition of appropriate communications and computer hardware and
software.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Amnex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$21.7 million; ERR = 26.9 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
- 15-



The projects proposed by the cities focus mainly on rehabilitation of segments of existing heating systems,
together with investments to improve the overall efficiency of heat production and delivery. As such, most
of the infrastructure for heat supply is already in place, and the economic retums of the project are high.
A least cost analysis was carried out on all of the components. In all cases, it was concluded that
rehabilitation of the present system, provided it was combined with a shift to more modem technology, was
the preferred alternative. In cases where boiler and pipe replacement were proposed, a review indicated
that this approach would be less costly than abandoning the systems in favor of decentralized boilers at the
building level or rehabilitating existing boilers. Investments in rehabilitation of Central Heat Substations
(CHS), as well as proposed replacement of CHSs with Individual Heat Substations (IHS) were less costly
than the alternatives in the situations where these measures will be undertaken.
Benefits of the project-financed investments include: (i) extension of the life of heating network assets; (ii)
reduced fuel consumption and system maintenance through more efficient equipment and reduced losses;
(iii) more efficient delivery of heat through better temperature controls and upgrading of substations; (iv)
reduced operation and maintenance costs, as well as avoided investment in pipes and substations; (v)
improved quality of heating services; and (vi) ultimately lower heating costs to consumers and lower levels
of heating-related costs to be paid by municipalities. Benefits related to the institutional and policy
initiatives include improved targeting and delivery of subsidies to low-income households, and reductions in
the overall cost of subsidies paid by municipal budgets.
The Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRR) vary from city to city, and also among components within
each city. Of the five cities whose projects have been fully appraised, the lowest EIRR was for Mytishi
(20.3 percent) and the highest for Dubna (33.3 percent). The weighted average EIRR was 26.9 percent,
and the Net Present Value was $21.7 million (at 12 percent discount rate).
A sensitivity analysis of the project's EIRR shows that it would be robust under significantly more
pessimistic assumptions with respect to costs and benefits. The results of the switching analysis, indicating
the levels of benefits and costs which could be absorbed relative to the base case while at the same time
maintaining an overall EIRR of 12 percent, are summarized below. Note that a negative number implies
that benefits could be negative (i.e. could be incremental costs rather than benefits) without the EIRRs
dropping below the threshold value.
Capital Costs                                                 1.83
Economic Value of GaslValue of Gas Savings*               see Annex 4
Water Supply Benefits                                        -3.84
Electricity Supply Benefits                                  -17.77
Savings in Asset Repair and Replacement                      -0.87
Savings in Purchased Heat                                     0.11
Total Benefits
* Note - Because benefits in some cities derive from gas savings, and in other cities derive from converting to gas from less efficient fuels (and thereby
increasing gas consumption), a consolidated switching value for this variable does not yield a valid picture of sensitivities. A city-by-city analysis is
presented in Annex 4
The switching analysis suggests that the project's economic viability is sensitive only to relatively large
- 16 -



shifts in the basic assumptions. Capital costs can increase by up to 83 percent over the base case
estimates, while total benefits can decline by up to 45 percent. In terms of specific benefits, in almost all
instances the value of a benefit can decline to zero without jeopardizing economic viability. However,
among the individual benefits, the analysis appears to be most sensitive to the value of savings in purchased
heat (in terms of the quantities saved and/or the associated price per Gcal), and to savings in asset repair
and replacement.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 37.8 million; FRR = 23.4 % (see Annex 4)
From the perspective of financial feasibility, the project and its components all yield high financial rates of
retum, despite the relatively low prices paid for energy supplies, and the low economic costs of supply
which will tend to temper future energy price increases. The weighted average FIRR for the five cities
assessed to date is 23.4 percent, and the net present value at 10.5 percent (weighted cost of capital) is $37.8
million. Among cities, the FIRRs range from a low of 19.2 percent for Mytishi to a high of 30.0 percent
for Nerungri.
The cities' capacity to finance the project and to meet future debt service obligations was evaluated through
credit-worthiness assessments of their current financial status and through projections of municipal
budgets, taking into account both the positive and negative financial impacts of the proposed projects and
related changes in cost recovery requirements. The credit-worthiness assessments were carried out by a
Russian ratings firm based on 1998 and 1999 financial results. Briefly, while the consultants had several
valid concerns about the financial outlook for the cities (primarily due to the uncertainties with respect to
future revenues), they did not consider these to be a barrier to the cities' undertaking moderate further
obligations. The primary potential barrier to borrowing was the fact that the city of Kostroma was in
arrears to the Federal budget with respect to repayment of its loan for the IBRD-financed Urban Transport
Project. The Ministry of Finance has indicated that Kostroma will not be allowed to participate in the
Municipal Heating project unless these arrears are cleared.
An analysis of the municipal budgets and of the financial projections for the district heating companies
indicates that the cash flow requirements associated with the project (including both local cofinancing and
debt service obligations) are manageable provided that the balance of revenues and expenditures can be
maintained at or near its current level in real terms. The projected cofinancing and debt service obligations
of the municipalities under the project were compared with both projected total expenditures, and with
current expenditures on housing and conmnunal services. In Syzran, Kostroma, and Nerungri, average
co-financing (including debt service) over the 2001-2010 period is less than 5% of total budget
expenditures, and less than 15% of current expenditures on communal services. In Dubna and Mytishi, the
project obligations represent 10% of total expenditures, and 33% of expenditures on housing and
conumunal services. Annex 5 provides details of these calculations. While the burdens in Dubna and
Mytishi are greater than in the other cities owing to the relatively large size of the proposed projects,
expected savings are correspondingly substantial. Cumulative benefits are projected to exceed cumulative
costs by 2006 and 2007 in the two cities respectively. It should also be noted that current expenditures by
the municipalities on housing and communal services include new capital construction, asset rehabilitation,
and subsidies to households.  Since the project will provide a substantial portion of the required
construction and rehabilitation expenditures over the coming years, and since the cities are required to
reduce subsidies in accordance with the federal guidelines of 1997 (to 20% in 2001, and to 0% by 2003),
funds normally budgeted for these expenditures can be re-directed to cover co-financing and debt service.
While projections based on currently available information indicate that the municipalities will have
- 17-



adequate cash flow to cover incremental financial obligations, a number of conditions have been agreed
with the governnent and the municipalities to help ensure continued access by the municipality to sufficient
financial resources. From the general revenue perspective, most of the cities have managed to achieve a
satisfactory flow of revenues in the past. However, oblast governments have steadily been reducing the
share of tax revenues retained by municipalities under their jurisdiction. As a result, the municipalities are
increasingly reliant on transfers from the oblast in order to cover their expenditures. Oblast governments
have therefore been required to provide repayment guarantees to the Ministry of Finance for funds on-lent
to the cities. Execution of these guarantee agreements (incorporated into the SLAs) will be a condition of
Loan effectiveness.
A second condition requires the municipalities to establish heating tariffs at levels sufficient to cover all
prudently incurred costs of the heating company, including a level of profits sufficient to provide a
reasonable return on assets, and to maintain tariffs at compensatory levels throughout the duration of the
project. All appraised cities have complied with this condition for the 2000 heating season, as a condition
of Board presentation. Ongoing conformity would be incorporated as a condition of the SLA. This
condition will (i) help to ensure that, over the long term, the municipalities recover the investments made in
system  repair and rehabilitation (through adequate depreciation and profitability);  and (ii) ensure
realization of the overall objective of the project, i.e. to reduce the financial burden on municipalities
associated with the supply of municipal heat. Annex 5 presents pro forma financial projections for the
district heating enterprises, and indicates the tariffs that would be required in order to maintain full cost
recovery during the course of the project. The computed required tariffs presume that the municipality will
provide the funds required to cover capital contributions to the project and principal payments on the loan.
The heating enterprises are expected to cover the carrying costs (fees and interest) associated with the
borrowed capital.
In Nerungri, the required tariffs are lower, in real terms, than the tariffs which prevailed in 1998.
Moderate real increases relative to 1998 levels are required in Syzran, Mytishi and Kostroma (a maximum
of 11, 23 and 29 percent respectively). In Dubna, however, tariffs will have to rise, in real terms, by up to
65% relative to 1998 levels. Nevertheless, the absolute tariff would be only some 25 percent higher than
the tariffs in Kostroma.
As conditions of participating in the project, municipalities have been (and new cities will be) required to
maintain minimum target levels with respect to the share of heating tariffs paid by the population, cash
coverage of fuel and wage expenditures, and cash relative to total collections. In addition, as a prior and
ongoing condition of the subsidiary loan agreements, cities are required to segregate sufficient funds to
cover the equivalent of 3 months of local cofinancing.
Finally, the SLAs will incorporate financial conditions related to (i) ongoing conformance with Federal
Standards for communal services with respect to the share of heating tariffs paid by the population; (ii)
collections rates and the share of cash in total collections; and (iii) maintaining adequate cash balances on
deposit to cover the subsequent 3 months of project-related expenditures.
Fiscal Impact:
The project's impact on the federal budget is likely to be quite substantial, with the government receiving
VAT equivalent to approximately 16.7 percent of the incremental costs of the project as these are recovered
through higher heating tariffs, and also receiving approximately 15 percent of the cost of imported
equipment through customs duties. Federal financing under the project is limited to a relatively small
share, covering the CPIU operating expenses plus some training and studies of relevance to the sector as a
- 18 -



whole. The proposed repayment terms would yield a margin of 2.0 percent per annum on the outstanding
balances. On-lending would be recovered over a 15 year period, as compared with the 17 years allowed for
repayment by the Government to IBRD.
3. Technical:
The district heating (DH) systems in most cities are in dire straits. Due to lack of financial resources in
recent years, maintenance and re-investment in the networks have been well below the level that would be
necessary for sound and continuous operation. There are numerous leaks and frequent breaks in the pipes.
Repair of major leaks, however, requires a total shut-down of the system. Consequently, the companies
continue to operate the system despite the leakages. The leaked water is compensated by excess pumping of
make-up water that is generally of poor quality, since the water treatment capacity typically is insufficient
to process the volumes required. Thus, hard and corrosive raw water is added directly to the system, which
leads to further deterioration. DH systems are repaired in summer time, when the entire system is shut
down, or in the heating season when the pumping capacity is insufficient to maintain pressure levels in the
excessively leaking system.
High losses in the networks, together with generally inefficient heat production (boilers, burners and heat
exchangers) also result in a need to maintain (and operate) considerable excess heat production capacity.
In addition, the secondary pipes in buildings sometimes are blocked due to poor water quality and water
circulation is not able to provide sufficient heating to the flats and taps. Before any investments are made,
the DHEs will be responsible for flushing the blocked pipelines.
As a result of the poor condition of the facilities, losses in the DH supply systems typically exceed 50%, of
which 10-20% arise in production, 20-30% in transmission and 10-20% in consumer substations and
distribution pipelines. This compares with total losses in a modem gas-fueled boiler and DH system of
only 10-15%.
Technical rehabilitation measures are as follows: (i) replacing coal and mazut-fired old heat-only boilers
with modem gas-fired boilers of higher efficiency and reliability; (ii) improving quality of DH circulation
water, thus reducing internal corrosion of pipes and fittings; (iii) replacing badly deteriorated pipelines with
modem pre-insulated pipes and fittings; (iv) replacing underground domestic hot water pipelines and CHSs
with building-level IHSs; (v) replacing large tube-type heat exchangers in CHSs with advanced compact
plate heat exchangers and control systems in individual buildings; (vi) replacing hydroelevators in the space
heating (SH) circuits with weather controllers, pumps, valves and heat exchangers in order to enable the
customers to control their heat demand and prevent under/overheating situations; (vii) flushing the
secondary pipelines and radiators of buildings to clear blockages; (viii) balancing the SH system in order to
ensure equal heat distribution to room radiators; (ix) installing heat meters in a number of substations in
order to enable billing based on heat-meter readings; and (x) installing better gate valves as part of the
pre-insulated pipes, thus enabling pipeline rehabilitation almost any time of the year during normal
operations.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Central Project Implementation Unit: A Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) will be set up for the
project. It will be housed in the NFHR that already provides support to the Ministry of Finance and to
Gosstroi in the administration of the Bank-supported Housing Project (Loan 3850-RU). The Government
- 19-



has decided to use the project management already built up in the Foundation to administer the proposed
project as well as the Municipal Water and Waste Water Project (Loan 45930-RU). The nucleus of the
CPIU will be a group of Russian specialists who have been part of the Central Project Development Unit
(CPDU) under the coordination of Gosstroi. This group has gained considerable experience through their
involvement in the project from its inception. The project management capabilities of the CPIU core staff
has been assessed during project development and found to be satisfactory. The CPIU will be assisted by
consultants specialized in relevant areas of project implementation.
An important challenge of the proposed project is the limited executing capacity of the local administrations
and municipal heating enterprises, their lack of any previous experience with World Bank projects or those
of other international finance institutions, and in many cases their limited planning and administrative
capacity. The CPIU, with the assistance of its consultants, will provide guidance and technical assistance
to the LPMUs, as appropriate, and will monitor their compliance with the terms of the SLAs. However, to
ensure that all fiduciary responsibilities are complied with and to facilitate management and auditing of
accounts, the CPIU will maintain all relevant project accounts and records of the cities.
Local Administrations: The subsidiary borrowers under the project are the local municipal governments,
which own the heating assets which are being rehabilitated and are responsible for their operation. The
municipal administrations are also responsible for establishing end-user tariffs, for paying the difference
between household tariffs and the full cost of supply, for providing targeted subsidies to low income
households, for covering any operating losses of the municipal heating companies, and for financing capital
investments in system expansion and rehabilitation.
Actual day-to-day operation of the networks is delegated to one or more municipal heating companies,
which are municipal unitary enterprises (MUEs), wholly owned by the cities. Network assets are recorded
in the financial accounts of the MUlEs, but the MUEs have no power to sell or otherwise dispose of these
assets. The charters of the MUEs include service agreements with the municipal administrations, which
outline their rights and responsibilities with respect to operation of the assets. The Housing and Communal
Services departments in the municipalities are in most cases responsible for general oversight of the
activities of the MUEs. Responsibilities for day to day management lie with the MUE management, headed
by the Director, with the powers to select and appoint his management team and staff. Organizational
management within the MUEs is functional, with heads of sections responsible for technical operations,
commercial and financial operations, and human resources and administrative matters.
Technical operations management and staff are, in general, experienced and resourceful in operating and
maintaining their systems in an environment of increasing resource constraints, affecting plant and
equipment operation through lack of adequate maintenance and spare parts. They have had limited
exposure to modem developments and advances in the field, but are receptive to utilizing qualified, outside
experts to help improve operations. Other essential functions, including commercial billing and collection,
financial planning, and accounting, have traditionally received less attention. With the tight financial
situation in the face of difficulties in revenue collection, and reduction in financial support from the
municipalities, the municipalities and the MUEs have been forced to start improving their capabilities in
these areas. Nevertheless, substantial more progress is needed to develop adequate commercial and
financial management capabilities. Accounting information and recording is primarily in the form of
bookkeeping for administrative purposes, and does not provide timely, reliable and accurate information
either for internal management decision-making and control, or for external reporting for investors and
creditors.
- 20 -



4.2 Project management:
An inter-ministerial committee was created by the Government, including representatives of the MoF, the
Ministry of Economy, Gosstroi and other federal agencies, responsible for the overall direction and
strategic oversight of the project. The MoF will be responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and for monitoring, jointly with Gosstroi, the financial position of the
participating cities. Overall management and supervision of the project will be the responsibility of
Gosstroi. Day-to-day implementation and administration of the project will be executed on behalf of
Gosstroi by the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR).
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement will be executed centrally by the NFHR. Each of the participating cities will send their
representative to the NFHR to assist in technical bid preparation and bid evaluation work. The
procurement team of NFHR will work in close cooperation with the World Bank Moscow office
procurement staff.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within the Russian Federation is
currently the subject of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment which will be prepared in FY
2001. Primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the
financial management capacity in Russia have been mitigated by having the NFHR manage the project
together with other World Bank projects, drawing on NFHR's experience in project implementation,
including financial management. Audits will be coordinated. The specific project management weaknesses
of NFHR were addressed in an action plan which was completed prior to Board presentation of the project.
Audit Compliance: The NFHR is in full compliance with audit covenance in existing Bank-financed
projects (Housing Loan, Wastewater and Sanitation Grant and District Heating Grant). All audit reports
due from NFHR were submitted to the Bank on time.
Banking Arrangements: The NFHR will open a Special Account in a financial institution satisfactory to
the Bank. The Government has advised that, under current Russian legislation (Budget Code), it may be
necessary to open the Special Account within the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance. It was mutually
agreed during negotiations that the Bank could accept this arrangement provided it did not hinder the
effective disbursement and management of Special Account funds under the project. The issue is being
reviewed by MoF from both the legal and the operational perspectives. It is expected that the amendments
to the Budget Code would be processed soon to allow the opening of Special Accounts with state
commercial banks authorized by MoF. The participating cities will not have separate special accounts.
However, under the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements local project accounts will be established
for counterpart financing and for debt service.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project has been classified as Category B. A review of potential environmental impacts of the
proposed investments has been carried out during project preparation for each of the participating cities
with the assistance of local and foreign consultants.  Environmental Assessment/Environmental
Management Plans dated July 2000 are available in the Project Files. The concept of the project has also
been discussed with the municipal and oblast committees of ecology.
- 21 -



The project is not expected to have significant negative environmental effects and will not raise any
resettlement or property rights issues since it focuses on rehabilitation of existing network and facilities. All
work will be executed either within the premises of existing facilities or the rights of way of public street
networks. Nevertheless, the project may cause some mitigable environmental impacts, mainly related to: (i)
disposal of excavated materials, construction debris, and small quantities of hazardous wastes and
materials related to construction activities; (ii) potential environmental damage caused by contractors
during construction activities; and (iii) nuisance during construction (noise, dust, and traffic disruption).
The contract documents will include provisions acceptable to the Bank for avoidance and mitigation of
these impacts. None of the cities has indicated any existence of asbestos in the facilities of the DHEs. In
case some asbestos may be found, an asbestos management handbook is stored in the Project Files.
The project is expected to bring substantial environmental, as well as health benefits, because: (i) modem
high efficiency natural gas-fueled boiler plants will replace old coal and mazut-fired boilers operated at low
efficiency, thus drastically reducing total use of fuel, as well as emissions of greenhouse gasses and
particulates; (ii) modem pre-insulated pipelines have 4-6 times lower thermal losses than the existing ones,
further reducing the need for fuel combustion; (iii) modem substations will allow better control of heat
supply and adjustment to ambient temperatures, reducing over- and under-heating, with associated health
and comfort benefits; and (iv) rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance of the water
treatment plants will assure better circulation water quality, thus reducing corrosion and preventing
frequent pipeline replacements.
Review and approval of the individual investments that require their review, particularly those that require
an Environmental Impact Assessment (OVOS) under local regulations, will take place prior to initiating
construction. During project construction, supervision of compliance with the Environmental Management
Plan will be carried out by the procurement, engineering and management consultants.
During appraisal, the five municipalities agreed to disclose information to the public by issuing - via local
newspaper and other media - a two-page project description covering environmental impacts. An officer of
the municipality, who will be responsible for disseminating additional information when requested by the
local stakeholders, shall be nominated. In the future, the CPIU will be responsible for ensuring that new
municipalities to be included in the project meet these requirements.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP address the construction phase of the project. Issues include dust, noise and
proper disposal of non-hazardous wastes. The EMP includes testing for hazardous materials (asbestos)
and, if found in levels exceeding standards, appropriate measures for management are to be taken. During
operation, there are minor issues associated with emissions of SO , NO, CO,, and leaks/spills of water or
fuel oil. These aspects are the appropriate ones to be considered under the project. Their proposed
management seems reasonable and entirely adequate.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: July 2000.
A final draft of the Environmental Management Plan was submitted by the Borrower on July 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 22 -



The project design was based on the results of the Social Assessment, taking into account the primary
concerns of the consumers (largely cost and reliability of supply ). Environmental issues are limited as the
project is confined to repairing and upgrading existing assets. The key features of environmental protection
and mitigation were taken into account in project design (particularly with regard to decreasing air
pollution impact by improving boiler and burner efficiency). Public Consultations about the subprojects
will be held in the involved cities no less than two months prior to physical activity on the work sites, and
the results of these consultations (including date and location of consultation, list of participants, and
summary minutes) will be provided to the Bank no less than one month prior to physical activity on the
work sites.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The monitoring plan has been designed in a manner consistent with the mitigation plan. Issues which are to
be mitigated during construction include dust, noise, and materials disposal (hazardous and non-hazardous)
and issues to be mitigated during operation include emissions of SO2, NO., water leaks, and fuel oil spills.
The monitoring plan addresses all these issues. During construction, monitoring is the responsibility of the
Chief of Construction Department of the DHE, and during operation, it is the responsibility of the Chief of
Production Department of the DHE. Monitoring results are normally reviewed and analyzed monthly by
the Production Department of the DHE. If the data indicate abnormalities, a report is sent to the Chief of
the Technical Department of the DHE. Any necessary actions are the responsibility of the Technical
Director.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
See summary social assessment report in Annex 12.
The share of full tariffs that is currently billed to the population is significantly below a level needed to
sustain the operations of the municipal heating companies. Additional funding on a large scale comes from
municipal budgets, both in the form of subsidies to make up the difference between collections and supply
costs, and in the form of capital contributions to fund major maintenance and expansion. The project itself
will contribute to holding heating costs down. However, due to the need to charge the population for an
increasing share of heating costs, according to federal guidelines and as a condition of participation in this
project, the population's direct heating expenses will increase over the near term. Ensuring that these tariff
increases do not lead to undue hardship among the poorer segments of the population will require increased
funding for - and effective delivery of - subsidy programs such as housing allowances, which are designed
to ensure affordable housing and communal services for low-income households. The social assessment has
focused on measuring the likely severity of the impact of higher tariffs, and on assessing the adequacy of
social protection programs in the project cities.
Under the project, social assessments have been carried out in Mytishi, Syzran, Nerungri, and Lytkarino
(the latter is no longer among the first five project cities). These assessments are based on qualitative and
quantitative research using in-depth interviews, focus groups, and questionnaire-based surveys. The issues
addressed in detail in the assessments are: (i) quality and reliability of the provision of heat and hot water,
(ii) level of satisfaction and hardships due to insufficient provision of heat and hot water, (iii) patterns of
supplementary heating and other coping strategies, (iv) physical conditions of heat and hot water
installations, (v) metering and conservation of heat and hot water, (vi) household budgets and expenditures
for heat and hot water by different income groups, (vii) collections, cost recovery, and indebtedness, (viii)
poverty of residential customers based on detailed data regarding household incomes and expenditures, (ix)
- 23 -



affordability, willingness to pay, and (x) effectiveness of the social assistance in place.
The survey reveals that there are significant quality problems both with heat supply and hot water supply.
For the average farnily, expenditure for heat and hot water is modest (2 - 6 % of a households' real
expenditures), but for the poorest part of the population, these expenditures are several times higher in
relative terms. Importantly, the assessment shows that targeting of needy beneficiaries in existing housing
allowance programs is grossly deficient. In the worst case, Nerungri, only 22% of allowances goes to the
poorest quintile households, according to the study. For the other cities, the corresponding percentage is
26% in Mytishi, 37% in Lytkarino, and 46% in Syzran. Allowance sizes vary substantially (from 40 to 355
rubles/month). Percentage of households being beneficiaries varies from 6% (Mytishi) to 20% (Syzran).
The cities are aware of the problems with leakage and lack of coverage in their programs, and plan to
improve the situation. However, resources are scarce, and effective means to assess eligibility of allowance
applicants are not in place.
Improving cost effectiveness of the heating systems, as well as ensuring that the population (except the
poorest) pay an increasingly higher share of the real cost of heat, is important for freeing up means to
provide better social assistance to the poor, and better communal services like health and education.
Currently the five project cities spend in excess of 30 percent of their municipal budgets on housing sector
services, of which approximately one quarter is untargeted heat and hot water subsidies.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders' planned involvement is described below as: information sharing (IS), consultation (CON), or
collaboration (COL)
Beneficiaries/community          COL/IS/CON         COL/CON             COL
groups
Intermediary NGOs/Academic            IS              COL/IS            COL
institutions
Local government                    COL/IS          COL/CON             COL
Other donors                        COL/IS            COL/IS            COL
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
In the context of the social assessment, in-depth interviews and focus group discussions have been carried
out on a wide variety of project-related social issues. Discussions involved residential district heat
customers, local social workers and poverty specialists, universities, staff from district heating companies,
city representatives, housing maintenance organizations, municipal social assistance offices and other civil
society stakeholders.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project's social development outcome is primarily based on a successful district heating investment that
can help hold down the cost of heat and hot water to the population. The project will further help reduce the
- 24 -



drain on municipal budgets from heat/housing subsidies, as participating cities reduce untargeted heat
subsidies, thereby freeing up funds for better social support to the neediest and for crucial municipal tasks
like health and education.
As mentioned above, during project preparation comprehensive social assessments were undertaken based
on qualitative and quantitative research in four cities. The results have been discussed with the project
cities, and the report forms a good knowledge bank and reference point for further municipal work. During
supervision, the project will maintain a dialogue with participating cities in the area of improving coverage
of social assistance programs to low-income households and reducing leakage of program funds to
ineligible households.
Outside the formal scope of the project, Bank staff will assist the CPDU and the cities in applying for grant
funding for new surveys to monitor developments, and for training of social assistance staff,
computerization of social assistance programs, communications and data exchange between social
assistance offices, municipal housing maintenance organizations, providers of utility services as well as
other government agencies such as tax authorities, in order to improve program efficiency.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will monitor impact of project investments on heat production costs and the manner in which
these are translated into tariffs for the population. Further, the project will ensure that the cities adhere to
commitments of reducing and abolishing untargeted heat subsidies, thereby freeing up municipal funding
for social development and targeted assistance to the poor. Finally, outside the formal scope of the project,
Bank staff in cooperation with social science consultants (subject to grant funding) will maintain a dialogue
with the municipalities related to high heating costs, and review steps taken by the municipalities to ensure
better coverage and better targeting of subsidies (housing allowances) to the poor.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followig safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environental Management Plans have been developed for each city, and reviewed by the Bank. Technical
specifications for all works contracts will require adherence to planned mitigation actions, and work will be
monitored by independent consultants. The local population has been informed about the planned project.
Further information on work-site environmental impact will be communicated to the population closer to
time of local works implementation.
- 25 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the project depends on (i) improvements in the financial viability of the heating enterprises
to ensure that their dependence on municipal budgets is reduced; and (ii) achieving political support for the
project from the heating customers, the local population and the municipal administration.
The ability of the heating companies to sustain a level of cash collections sufficient to cover local costs and
ensure project sustainability is a key risk factor. Expectations of low cost energy are an integral part of the
Russian culture, and political opposition to the program of increased cost recovery may derail attempts to
improve the finances of the heating enterprises. Risk mitigation measures include substantial up-front
action by the municipalities with respect to increasing cost recovery and improving cash collections.
To achieve support from the customers, the population, and the municipal administration, social surveys
were performed in several of the cities to identify the key concems of the local population, and to better
advise on useful changes in the system of subsidizing low-income households. While the social surveys to
date indicate that customer willingness and ability to pay for reliable heat supply is significantly greater
than current tariffs, measures must also be taken to ensure that low-income families are protected from
unaffordable increases in tariffs, in order not to undermine political support for the project and the
associated reforms.
There is also a risk that the Federal Government's commitment to reforms in housing and municipal utilities
(including increased cost recovery, commercialization of municipal service enterprises, and a shift from
universal to targeted subsidies) will falter, which would strengthen the position of those customers and
municipal officials who oppose the reforms. This risk has been mitigated insofar as possible by
incorporating related conditionalities into adjustment lending (SAL III, operation ended), and by selecting
cities based on their ongoing conumitment to implementing reforms.
On the implementation side, the project is complex, covering a number of different types of small
investments in about 9 different cities, none of which have significant experience with World Bank projects.
Efficient management of procurement, disbursements and project financial management will require
significant oversight, and also a high level of co-operation among the cities and willingness to subordinate
individual interests to the interests of the project as a whole. A number of mitigation measures have been
taken to address implementation risks. Technical specifications and draft tender documents for initial
procurement are being prepared and are ready for circulation at the time of Board submission. A central
project implementation unit, already experienced in implementation of Bank projects, will handle
procurement, disbursement and accounting activities for all cities. In addition, the CPIU staff have been
closely involved with the cities during the project preparation stage and are fully familiar with the project
components, issues and core team members.
- 26 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rfsk    OiI~iW Risk Mi                                n Measiure
From Outputs to Objective
Municipalities are not willing to ensure   M          - Up-front condition to increase tariffs to
the heat company's financial viability                demonstrate commitment to financial principles
through tariff increases and (any                     of the project.
necessary) budget transfers.                          - Intensive monitoring of compliance with
financial covenants and prompt action in case of
non-compliance. City's subsequent years'
procurements to be canceled if loan conditions
not met.
- Physical investments designed to have a rapid
and visible impact that make tariff increases
more acceptable to the consumers.
- Measures taken to protect low-income
households from unaffordable tariff increases.
Fiscal situation continues to deteriorate  M          - Intensive monitoring of financial performance
affecting payment of domestic hot water               and prompt support to heating companies to find
and heating bills by budget organizations             alternative approaches to secure financial
and state industries.                                 viability.
Budget organizations and state industries  M          - Upfront condition to increase cash collection to
do not pay in cash.                                   demonstrate commitment to financial principles
of project.
- Dialogue between Bank and municipalities to
support heating companies' efforts to increase
cash collection.
- Intensive monitoring of compliance with
financial covenants and prompt action in case of
non-compliance.
Potential corruption may erode project      M         - Commercial and Financial Management
benefits.                                             systems for the project will provide more
transparency and improve possibilities for
adequate audit and control.
From Components to Outputs
Project management competence of the        M         - Propose adjustments to staff.
CPIU is unsatisfactory.                               - Adjust consulting services to the specific
needs.
Managerial, financial, and technical       M          - Further project support through the CPIU and
capacities in municipal heating companies            involved consultants.
are not adequate.                                     - Focused twinning efforts (trust-funded).
- Cancel future components, as necessary.
- 27 -



Cooperation between the CPIU and             M         - Ensure that learning experience from the
municipal heating companies does not                   Russian EHDP Project and the Russian Energy
function satisfactorily.                               Efficiency Project is fully utilized.
- Revise responsibilities between CPIU and
LPMUs as necessary.
Slow or ineffective implementation of        S         - Use of supply & install contracts
components                                             - Procurement and Engineering Group to assist
in project supervision
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The following issues will affect the preparation and future implementation of new projects financed by the
Bank in Russia:
*   All taxes and duties are ineligible for financing from loan funds. On an exceptional basis the Bank has
agreed in ongoing operations to continue disbursements against partial withholding of incomes for
future income tax liabilities of individual consultants and project implementation unit staff in Russia.
As for this Municipal Heating Project, the parties agreed during Negotiations that, subject to the results
of an ongoing review by the Bank, financing from the Loan for consultant services and the NFHR
(CPIIU) staff would be 100% of costs, net of VAT. The Bank representatives informed the Borrower
that the issue of profit and personal income taxes liabilities for consultants and NFHR staff financed
under the project was still being discussed by senior management in the Bank. Changes in the
mentioned percentage may be necessary before presentation of the Loan to the Bank's Board of
Directors, if the Bank decides that the current structure of income and profit taxes in Russia makes it
impossible to finance consultant services and NFHR staff costs from the Loan at the indicated rates.
* In accordance with a new budgetary code, all loan funds as well as other budget funds should be held
in the Treasury of MoF. There is a risk that NFHR, as a non-governmental institution, will not be able
to authorize payments of budgetary funds and therefore be restricted in functioning as an implementing
agent of the Government.
These issues are subjects for discussion between the Bank and MoF, who is the legal representative of the
Borrower. However, given the seriousness of the issues to the future of the NFHR activities, the Russian
Government together with NFHR's management should acknowledge the risks and take every step possible
to minirmize them.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversial aspects have been identified. However, as conditions for participation in the project,
cities have been requested to improve cost recovery and cash collection. Improvements in these areas are
essential for the cities and their district heating companies, with or without the project. As heat prices
increase, it is essential that the municipal administrations improve targeting of housing subsidies to the
poor (as commented on in Section E of this report).
- 28 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness are given in the draft Loan Agreement's Section 6.01:
"The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
NFHR;
(b) the Borrower, Participating Cities and Participating Subjects of the Borrower, and Participating
District Heating Enterprises have executed Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and related
Sub-Project Implementation Agreements in respect of a minimum of four (4) Sub-projects, and all
conditions to the effectiveness of such Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements and Sub-Project
Implementation Agreements have been fulfilled."
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements with the cities and oblasts will, among other items,
include the following conditions:
* A satisfactory Local Project Management Unit (LPMU) is in place;
* Tariffs shall be established and maintained at levels which: (i) allow the heating enterprise to cover all
prudently incurred costs of operations, including local costs of the project and a reasonable level of
profit/retum on investment; (ii) fully cover depreciation on revalued assets. The city will further
ensure that tariffs are adjusted in a timely manner to reflect changes in operating costs. Tariffs will be
adjusted at a minimum on an annual basis, and will be further adjusted if the prices for any single
major input (fuel, wages, electricity, water, purchased heat) increase by 25 percent and/or if the
weighted average cost of supply increases by 10 percent.
* The heating company, city and oblast shall annually review whether the heating company would be
able to meet the financial covenants of the project and promptly take all necessary measures in order to
meet such requirements;
* The share of full cost recovery tariffs paid by households is not less than 80% in 2001, 90% in 2002
and 100% in 2003 and thereafter;
* The ratio of collections to billings is not less than 75% in 2001, 80% in 2002, 85% in 2003, 90% in
2004, and 95% in 2005 and thereafter;
* The share of cash in collections (collections may also contain barter, offsets, and other non-cash
transactions) is not less than 60% in 2001, 70% in 2002, 85% in 2003, and 100% in 2004 and
thereafter;
* The city and oblast shall ensure that the heating company is not required to finance mandated benefits
to preferred customers.
- 29 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
___                                                                  .1 .                       -
Bj H msor Hossein Razavi                                             Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Manager
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*To improve subnational   *Municipalities are able to   *Local govermment accounts  *The municipal resources
fiscal management and    increase financing for     and budgets.              released by the reform in the
policies and increase the  essential public services                           financing of communal
efficiency of government  other than heating (including *Financial and operating  services will be used in part
expenditure; to contribute to  social protection programs)   data of the municipal  to implement financially
an improved standard of   without having to increase    heating companies.    sustainable programs of
living in selected cities.  the burden on the tax base or                     targeted assistance to low
incur additional debt.                              income households.
*The cost-effectiveness and                         *The general standard of
quality of heat supply to                           living will be improved by
local customers are                                 access to an adequate and
improved.                                           affordable level of heat
supply.
*A decrease in the share of
municipal budgets which are                        eMunicipalities use the
allocated, either directly or                       additional funds in a prudent
indirectly, to the provision of                     manner to benefit the local
municipal heating services.                         population.
Municipalities are allowed
by oblasts to retain
additional funds for
spending within the local
community.
- 31 -



Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Alleviate the financial burden
on municipal governments by:
*Improving the operating   *Reduced fuel and water    *Semi-annual progress reports eSatisfactory execution of the
efficiency of district heating   consumption.         and completion report.     technical project.
systems.
oReduced heat losses.
*Promoting sound cost      *The participating heating    *Semi-annual progress reports *Reform of the financing
recovery policies and      companies collect for each    and completion report.   mechanisms for communal
commercial practices.      fiscal year during project                             services continues to be a
implementation sufficient                             priority objective of federal
revenues to cover their                               and local governments.
operating costs, adequate
maintenance expenditures
and project-related expenses.
*Over an agreed time period,
collections directly from
customers shall reach 100%
(municipal budget transfers
0%).
*Supporting government     *Better targeted and more    *Municipal statistics of  *Political willingness to cut
efforts to improve the     adequate subsidies.        subsidies.                  privileges/subsidies to
cost-effectiveness of subsidy                                                     undeserving households.
programs through better
targeting and delivery of                            *Household surveys (require  *Resources, human and
subsidies to low-income                               grant or local funding).    technical, made available to
households,                                                                      improve targeting of
subsidies.
*Municipalities retain a
sufficient share of revenues
to ensure full funding of
subsidies to low-income
households.
- 32 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
*Improved and more         *Energy consumption.       *Semi-annual progress reports *Satisfactory project
affordable heating and hot   *Heat and hot water losses.    and completion report.  execution.
water services in 8-9 Russian oTariff development.
cities.
*Improved commercial       *Financial performance     *Detailed financial statements eMunicipal willingness to
performance of heating     indicators of heating       of heating companies.      ensure the heat company's
companies.                 companies (e.g. debt service                           financial viability through
coverage ratio, profitability,                         tariff increases and (any
collections).                                          necessary) budget transfers.
*Heating company's
insistence on payments, in
cash.
*Budget organizations (public
buildings) and state
industries' preparedness to
pay their heating bills,
unlike in the past.
*Potential corruption not to
erode project benefits.
*Improved municipal        *Reduction or reduced
finances.                 increase in subsidies paid
with respect to supply of                            *Municipal willingness to
municipal heating.                                     increase tariffs generally and
cut subsidies to undeserving
heat customers.
- 33 -



Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. System Rehabilitation  Total costs: $59.07 million.
*Detailed designs and bidding *Baseline data prior to  *Satisfactory project
documents.                investments.               management competence
oContracts signed for the  *Bidding documents,        within the CPIU.
procurement of goods,     including designs that meet  eAdequate managerial,
equipment and civil works.   international standards.  financial, and technical
oEquipment received,      *Contracts for the          capacity in municipal
installed properly and work   procurement of goods,  heating companies.
completed according to    equipment and works.      eSeamless cooperation
specifications.          *Installation reports.      between CPIU and municipal
heating companies.
2. Technical Assistance   Total costs: $3.13 million
* Engineering Designs    *Detailed designs and bidding oBidding documents, with
and Bidding Documents  documents.                detailed designs that meet
international standards.
*  Supervision of       oContracts signed for the  *Contracts for procurement of
Construction          procurement of goods,      goods, equipment and works.
equipment and civil works.  *Installation reports.
*Equipment received,
installed properly and work
completed according to
specifications.
*  General Procurement   *Procurement activities   oActivity reports of the
assistance             carried out according to  consultant.
Bank guidelines.
3.Central Project         Total costs: $2.5 million.
Implementation Unit (CPIU)
*CPIU staffed with competent
personnel.
*Satisfactory technical and    *Feasibility studies
financial documentation for
projects in eligible cities.
oSatisfactory project     *Periodic project
implementation.           implementation reports (to
Gosstroi, MoF, the Bank).
4. Institutional Support  $1.0 million.
*  Institutional        *Contracts signed for      * Activity reports of
Development Studies    consultant work.            consultants.
*  Financial Audit      *Accounts of the project   * Audit Report
audited.
- 34 -



*  Creditworthiness         *Creditworthiness analysis of *Creditworthiness reports.
the cities and the heating
companies performed.
*The cities' ability to service
the loan and provide local
contribution investigated.
- 35 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
The overall objective of the Municipal Heating Project is to alleviate the financial burden on municipal
governments associated with the supply of district heating to the local population by (i) improving the
operating efficiency of district heating systems through investments to save energy and reduce heat losses;
(ii) promoting sound cost recovery policies and commercial practices; and (iii) supporting government
efforts to improve the cost-effectiveness of subsidy programs through better targeting and delivery of
subsidies to low-income households.
While over 100 cities originally expressed interest in the project, to date, only 5-10 cities have presented
acceptable feasibility studies, combined with near adherence to all conditions for participation and an
acceptable level of creditworthiness. Five cities were selected for appraisal. A further 3-4 cities will be
included in the project provided they meet the specified deadlines for completing all prior conditions,
including signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The five appraised cities are Dubna, Mytishi,
Kostroma, Syzran and Nerungri. Kazan, Krasnoyarsk, Tambov, and Volgograd are the most likely
additional candidates for participation. Other candidates are Astrakhan, Vladikavkaz, and Vladivostok.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$70.36 million
System Rehabilitation
The investment projects in the cities focus on rehabilitation and modernization of networks with a view to
achieving relatively rapid benefits in terms of loss reduction, improved fuel efficiency, and asset life
extension. In some cities, it also includes metering, with a view to ultimately allowing customers to control
heat at the building level, and to be billed on the basis of actual consumption. A least-cost investment
program was designed by each city, with the assistance of consultants and the CPDU. The quantities of the
programs are presented in the table below:
..  I----   - ------ -W ------- --
nvidual Heat Substations              pcs      130      173       131      219               653
ce Heating Network (distribution &
transmission)                         km      21.4      12.3      16.4     9.0               59.1
HW network, rehabilitation            km       4.8      2.0       3.0 s9.8
DHW  network, elimination             km                8.5       5.1                        13.6
Central Heat Substations, rehabilitation    pcs           2       1e8       16               46
Central Heat Substations, elimination  pcs                                  6                 6
Transmission Network                  km
Interconnection Network               km                          4.8               0.7      5.5
Rehabilitation of Existing Boiler Houses   pcs  2        I                           I        4
Installation of New Boiler Houses     pcs                          I                 I        2
Typical features of the investmnent prograrns include:
(a) Replacing coal and mazut-fired old heat-only boilers with modern gas-fired boilers, thus raising heat
production efficiency from about 50% to 90% and reducing emissions of S02, C02, NOx, and
- 36 -



particulates;
(b) Improving the quality of DH circulation water by means of advanced water treatment systems in order
to prevent internal corrosion of the pipelines and armatures;
(c) Replacing those DH pipelines and armatures that are oldest and/or in worst condition with modem
pre-insulated pipes and fittings that are energy efficient and resistant to extemal corrosion;
(d) Replacing central tube-type substations and underground domestic hot water (DHW) pipelines with
advanced plate heat exchangers and control systems in individual buildings, thus preventing regular
replacements of the corroded DHW pipelines, reducing long delays in receiving DHW, and reducing water
consumption by providing proper quality DHW instantly;
(e) Replacing hydroelevators in the space heating (SH) circuits by means of weather controllers, pumps,
valves and heat exchangers in order to enable customers to control their heat consumption and prevent
under/overheating;
(f) Flushing the secondary pipelines and radiators of buildings in cases where they are blocked by
sediments in order to ensure proper hot water circulation in SH and DHW systems;
(g) Balancing the SH system in order to ensure equal heat distribution to room radiators; and
(h) Installing heat meters in a number of substations in order to monitor consumption, improve physical
accounting for heat, and facilitate billing based on heat meter readings. In total 761 heat meters will be
procured in the investment programs, thus raising the metering rate from 19% to 38% on average.
Total number of points needing   pcs   4,100      350      1,400     418       770      1,162
metering
Number of existing meters        pcs    782       100       400       159                123
Metering rate before project            19%       29%      29%       38%       0%       11%
Number of metering under         pcs    761       134       196       149      279       3
procurement
Metering rate after project             38%       67%      43%       74%      36%       11%
More detailed information, including in-depth assessments of the present institutional and technical
conditions, recommendation for improvement, the description, justification, and detailed cost estimates are
available in the Project Files and the project database.
Project Component 2 - US$4.10 million
Technical Assistance - Procurement, Engineering and Supervision
This component will provide support to the CPIU in project implementation. While the consultants will be
expected to work in and together with the cities, their primary responsibility will be to assist the CPIU (and
by extension, Gosstroi) in ensuring that the projects are carried out in a timely and efficient manner, in
compliance with procurement guidelines and with best practices for design, engineering and installation.
A Procurement and Engineering Group (PEG) will be selected in accordance with the terms of reference
attached in the Project Implementation Plan. It will assist in elaboration of the bidding documents of all
investments in the project, and in carrying out procurement functions in accordance with the provisions of
the Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines. In addition, the PEG will provide supervision of
construction services to ensure that the quality of equipment and civil works meet adequate standards of
quality and that bills provided by suppliers and contractors are correct.
- 37 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 2.90 million
Central Project Implementation Unit
This component will finance the incremental ongoing operating expenses of the Central Project
Implementation Unit (CPIU), including but not limited to salaries of local staff, consultants, travel
expenditures, office equipment, and office supplies. The CPIU will prepare an annual operating budget, to
be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
The responsibilities of the CPIU will include:
(i) preparing a detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP), detailed annual implementation programs and
procurement and disbursement schedules for project execution, and following their results;
(ii) coordinating the work of the Consultants and the Local Project Management Units that will manage the
project implementation on site and participate in the procurement process in the CPIU when critical
decisions are needed concerning the implementation coordination;
(iii) managing the procurement activities undertaken at the national level;
(iv) following up on the timely availability of counterpart financing of the project;
(v) overseeing management of the Special Account and sub-project accounts and ensuring timeliness of
disbursement to contractors and suppliers as well as periodic Special Account replenishments;
(vi) preparing project progress reports to be submitted, in accordance with an agreed scope and schedule,
to the Ministry of Finance, Gosstroi and the Bank and which will form the basis for periodic reviews of
progress in project imnplementation;
(vii) identifying possible gaps and problems in the project and needed actions to be taken for their solution;
(viii) monitoring financial targets stated in the PIP and the DHE's overall operational and financial
performance;
(ix) maintaining up-to-date infornation on all aspects of the project (financial, construction, procurement,
expenditures, etc.) and organizing required documents and data-recording systems;
(x) supervising execution of the project's audit by extemal auditors; and
(xi) maintaining contacts with executing agencies for similar projects being implemented in the Russian
federation with assistance of other bilateral or multilateral organizations.
Financial Audits and Monitoring (US$ 0.34 million)
This subcomponent of Project Component 3 includes the annual cost of carrying out the audits of the
project financial statements, the Special Account and statements of expenditure (SoE), in accordance with
intemational auditing standards and performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Since the
NHFR is already submitting audit reports to the Bank under the Housing project, it is anticipated that the
same auditor will undertake the audit in relation to the proposed project. Terms of Reference for the audit
and selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank every year (total estimate US$0.2 mill.).
The subcomponent also includes the cost of carrying out periodic updates (monitoring) of the assessments
of credit-worthiness of cities participating in the project (total estimate US$0.14 million).
- 38 -



Project Component 4 - US$2.50 million
Institutional Support
Sector Development Studies
This subcomponent includes a limited number of studies aimed at supporting the overall development of the
district heating and communal services sector through focused research on areas of particular relevance to
achieving desired sector reforms. In particular, studies will focus on (i) options and actions necessary to
improve pricing and regulation; (ii) assessment of restructuring options for the sector (including the
potential role of competition and the promotion of greater private sector involvement), together with
detailed action plans to advance this process; and (iii) assessment of financial structures and mechanisms
which will ensure an appropriate and equitable flow of benefits to investors in the sector (including
municipalities); and (iv) assessment of energy cost-related issues of social protection for low-income
families.
Other Components Contingent on Grant Financing
Grant financing is being solicited to fund (i) institutional development of the heating companies; and (ii)
improved targeting of social protection programs. Applications for funding of twinning arrangements
between the participating Russian and foreign District Heating Enterprises (DHEs) have been discussed
with EU/TACIS and other European government agencies. To date, the government of Finland, together
with the District Heating Association of Finland have expressed interest in supporting twinning with at
least two cities.
Applications will also be submitted to bilateral financing agencies for support to the Social Services
Departments in the participating cities. This support would include technical assistance in carrying out
continuing social surveys, in introducing better procedures for targeting of benefits to low-income
households, and in improving the operating effectiveness of these departments through the acquisition of
appropriate communications and computer hardware and software.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
3.1 Summary Project Financin  Plan US$ millions b Cate ory
Unidentified Investments in                        34.650                   0.597      35.157
Rehabilitation_
Individual Heat Substations         pcs    653      10.361                  0.640      11.002
DH+DHW Network Rehabilitation       km      68      11.918                  1.024      12.942
Central Heat Substations            pcs    52       2.765                   0.131   2_ 2896
Interconnection Network Rehabilitation   km  5.5    2.139                   0.303       2.442
Rehabilitation of Boiler Houses     pcs     4       2.736                   0.061       2.797
Installation of New Boiler Houses   pcs     2       3.056                   0.066       3.123
Technical Assistance - Implementation               4.100                               4.100
Technical Assistance - Institutional                2.500                               2.500
Support                                   _
PIU - Recurrent Costs, Including Audits             2.900                               2.900
and Monitoring
Sub-total                                          77.036                   2.822      79.858
Taxes and Duties                                                0.568      22.455      23.023
Fee                                                 0.850                               0.850
Total Base Cost                                    77.886       0.568      25.277      103.731
Contingencies                                       7.114                   2.431       9.545
IDC                                                             1.090      13.515      14.605
Total Project Costs                                85.000       1.658      41.224      127.881
3.2 Federal Government, Project Financin  Plan US$ millions by Categ or
Investment in Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance - Implementation                                           l               l
Technical Assistance - Institutional   2.500                                          2.500
Support
PIU - Recurrent Costs, Including       2.900                                          2.900
Audits and Monitoring
Sub-total                              5.400                                          5.400
Taxes and Duties                                       0.568                          0.568
Fee                                    0.055                                    |    0.055
Total Base Cost                        5.455           0.568                          6.023
Contingencies                                                                   l               l
IDC                                                    1.090                    l    1.090
Total Project Costs                    5.455           1.658                    |    7.112
- 40 -



33 Dubna, Project Financing Plan (US$ millions) by Category
Individual Heat Substations               pcs    130        2.419          0.051         2.470
DH+DHW Network Rehabilitation             km      26.2      2.602          0.060         2.662
Central Heat Substations                  pcs
Interconnection Network Rehabilitation    km       _
Rehabilitation of Boiler Houses           pcs      2        0.779          0.019         0.797
Installation of New Boiler Houses         pcs      _
Technical Assistance - Implementation          _            0.355                        0.355
Technical Assistance - Monitoring & Studies
PIU - Recurrent Costs
Sub-total                                                   6.155          0.130         6.265
Taxes and Duties                                                           1.853         1.853
Fee                                                         0.069                        0.069
Total Base Cost                                             6.224          1.982         8.206
Contingencies                                               0.659          0.181         0.840
IDC             -     e _       __                _                        1.200         1.200
Total Project Costs                      _       __ l_      6.883          3.363         10.247
3.4 Kostroma, Project Financing Plan (US$ millions) by Category
Individual Heat Substations               pcs    173        2.142          0.030         2.178
DH+DHW Network Rehabilitation             kmn    13.3       2.344          0.034         2.378
Ccntral Heat Substations                  pcs      12       0.620          0.009         0.629
Interconnection Network Rehabilitation    km
Rehabilitation of Boiler Houses           pcs      1        0.447          0.003         0.450
Installation of New Boiler Houses         pcs
Technical Assistance - Implementation                       0.361                        0.361
Technical Assistance - Monitoring & Studies
PIU - Recurrent Costs
Sub-total                                                   5.914          0.076         5.991
Taxes and Duties                                                           1.868         1.868
Fee                                                         0.070                        0.070
Total Base Cost                                             5.984          1.944         7.929
Contingencies                                               1.016          0.342         1.358
IDC                                                                        1 .394        1.394
Total Project Costs                                         7.000          3.681         10.681
- 41 -



3.5 Mytishi, Project Financin  Plan US$ millions) b  Cate orv
IndvdalHa Subttin                          pcs    ]31        2.043    |     0432.496
DH+DHW Network Rehabilitation              kmn ! 19.4        3.719    |     0.808         4.527
Central Heat Substations                   pcs     1 8 X     0.499    1    ().073         0.572
Interconnection Network Rehabilitation--__   kmn    4.8      1.936          0.299         2.236
Rehabilitation of Boiler Houses            Pcs                       t       _ I
Installation of New Boiler Houses  __ pc.                      .72          0.041          1.761
Technical Assistance - Implementation    0-6_0__                                          0.600
Technical Assistance - Monitoring & Studies
PIU - Recurrent Costs                    _               _
Sub-total                                       L            10.518         1.674         12.192
Taxes and Duties                        --                                  3.757
Fee                                                          0.116
Total Base Cost                                             10.634          5.432         16.066
Contingencies                                                I B.011    - 1.530            1.541
IDC                                       .                                 B 1816        1.816
Total Project Costs                   _                 L - _11.645         7.778         19.422
3.6 Nerungri, Pro ect Financin  Plan US$ millions) b Cate ory
Individual Heat Substations    ~~pcs     219  ____.56            ().107        3.863
DH+DHWNeworkRehailitatio         _knm        9 3      3. 2 53        0.121         3.374
Central Heat Substations                   pcs     22        1 646         01.049         1.695
Interconnection Network Rehabilitation     km'
Rehabilitation of Boiler Houses   __|      pcs                      L_                          _
Installation of New Boiler Houses   I      pcs                                           ____..____
Technical Assistance - Implementation   O--             -      527                        0.527
Technical Assistance - Monitoring & Studies    0-527- --                               _ -  
PIU - Recurrent Costs                     _       _      _        .                    _    _ _
Sub-total                                 -                  9.18t          0.277         9.458
Taxes and Duties                                                            2.649 2_ 2.649
Fee                                         0_ ____          ()102    I _                 0.102
Total Base Cost                                              9.283    _    2.926          12.209
Contingencies                       t                        0932       -   0.308          1.239
IDC                                     |       I       |          -        1.871          1 .871
Total Project Costs                      _              ]   10.215    I    5.105          15.320
- 42 -



3.7 S yzran, Pro ject Financin  Plan US$ millions by Cate ory
Indivi dual Heat S ubstations   __=pcs_=_ 
DH+DHW Network Rehabilitation             km_
Central Heat Substations                  pcs
Interconnection Network Rehabilitation    km      0.7      0.203          0.004         0.207
Rehabilitation of Boiler Hlouses          pcs      l        1.510         0.039         1.549
Installation of New Boiler Houses         pcs      I        1.336         0.025         1.362
Technical Assistance - Implementation          T __        0.192                        0.192
Technical Assistance - Monitoring & Studies _   l      _ l
PIU - Recurrent Costs
Sub-total                                                  3.242          0.068         3.310
Taxes and Duties                                                          0.917         0.917
Fee                                                        0037_                        0.037
Total Base Cost                               _            3.279          0.985         4.264
Contingencies                                  .           0.451          0.139         0.590
IDC                                    _         i                        0.650         0-650
Total Project Costs                                        3.730          1.774         5.504
3.8 New Cities, Project Financing Plan USS millions) by Category
Unidentified Investments in Rehabilitation    34.560              0.597             35.157
Technical Assistance - Implementation          2.065                                 2.065
Technical Assistance - Monitoring & Studies
PIU - Recurrent Costs
Sub-total                                     36.625              0.597             37.223
Taxes and Duties                                                 11.411              11.411
Fee                                           0.401                                  0.401
Total Base Cost                               37.026             12.008             49.034
Contingencies                                 3.046               0.931              3.978
IDC                                                               6.584              6.584
Total Project Costs                           40.072             19.523             59.595
- 43 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
Benefits                                    48.3                           73.6
Costs                                       26.6                           35.8
Net Benefits                                21.7                           37.8
IIRR                                       26.9%                          23.4%
Note: Present values calculated at 12 percent discount rate for economic cash flows, and 10.5 percent for financial
cash flows.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
a) Economic Benefits and Costs
Demand Forecasts
The cities prepared forecasts of future demand for municipal heating in the areas affected by the project. In
all cases, growth estimates were modest and well justified by building size, occupancy and historic
temperature records.
Boiler Rehabilitation/Replacement (Syzran, Kostroma, Dubna, Mytishi)
Savings in fuel consumption were computed based on the difference in boiler efficiency before and after
replacement/rehabilitation, and valued at the economic price of the relevant fuel. Savings varied among
cities, based on the capacity and current efficiency of the existing boilers. In general, efficiency was
presumed to increase from current levels of 50 - 60 percent to at least 90 percent as a result of the project.
Several of the rehabilitation measures imposed would also result in a reduction in the amount of electricity
consumed in the boiler house. Savings were calculated by comparing the consumption of new equipment
with that of existing equipment and valued at the economic price of electricity. In addition, boiler
replacement/rehabilitation was assumed to result in reduced expenditures on O&M. These were valued at
1 - 2 percent of the investment cost.
Rehabilitation of CHSs (Nerungri, Mytishi, Kostroma)
Savings in the required amount of heat and hot water supply were estimated and valued in terms of either
fuel and water equivalents, or avoided purchases of heat from a third party. Reductions in leakages were
based on the heating companies' estimates of current leakages at the CHS, and also valued in fuel, heat and
water equivalents. Savings in O&M costs were valued at 2 percent of investment costs.
Installation/Rehabilitation of IHSs (Dubna, Nerungri, Mytishi, Kostroma)
Replacement of CHSs with IHSs will reduce both heat and water losses in the pipes connecting the CHS to
the buildings. These savings were valued in terms of the economic costs of the inputs. In addition, heat
exchangers and pipes for supplying domestic hot water from the CHS to the buildings will no longer be
needed, leading to substantial avoided investment.
- 44 -



Pipe Replacement (Dubna, Kostroma, Mytishi, Nerungri)
Replacement of old existing pipes with new, pre-insulated pipes will substantially reduce network losses.
These savings were valued in tenns of equivalent savings in fuel, water and/or purchased heat. In addition,
the new pipes will significantly extend the average life of heating and domestic hot water supply systems.
Currently, the life of hot water pipes is estimated at 5 years, and the life of heating pipes is estimated at 15
years. The expected life of the new pipe networks is estimated at 25 years. The value of avoided
investment in future pipe replacement was included in the benefits of the project.
Consolidation of Heat Supply Points (Mytishi, Syzran)
Both cities propose to consolidate existing heat supply systems in order to improve heat production
efficiency and avoid heat and water losses associated with current distribution/transmission lines. Benefits
were assessed as the difference between the current cost of heat supply and the costs which will be incurred
to produce heat in the new facilities.
b) Details of EIRR Calculations:
The six tables attached at the end of this Annex give the detailed calculations of EIRR for each of the five
cities, plus the consolidated figures for the project as a whole.
Main Assumptions:
c) Main Assumptions - Economic Analysis
Price of Gas
Russia possesses an ample indigenous supply of natural gas. Proven reserves total over 40 trillion cubic
meters, while annual production is in the order of 600 billion cubic meters. The super-giant fields in the
Yamal Peninsula (Urengoy, Yamburg, Zapolyarnoe) represent a low-cost source of supply which, despite
their remoteness, allow Russia to compete effectively in European markets and also convey the benefit of
low-cost energy to domestic consumers.
Unfortunately, little information is publicly available on the long-run incremental costs of gas production.
Sources have cited the production costs in Yamal at as low as $5.00 per 1,000 cubic meters (MCM).
While existing wells are slowly being depleted, it has been estimated that step-outs from these fields could
be developed which could maintain current production levels at costs in the order of $7 - $10 per MCM.
The marginal cost of transmission to European Russia (a distance of approximately 2,500 km.) is estimated
at between $1.00 and $1.50 per MCM per 100 km. While this is relatively high given that an extensive
pipeline network is already in place, the transmission system crosses adverse terrain, and is reputed to be in
poor condition and costly to maintain. Assuming a marginal production cost of $10 per MCM, the
economic value of gas delivered to the city gate in Moscow and adjacent regions would range from $35 to
$47.5 per MCM, depending on the assumed transmission cost.
An alternative measure of the economic value can be derived by calculating the net-back for exported gas
delivered to European markets. Assuming a price of $90 per MCM at the German border (the price varies
with the European price for fuel oil) and deducting transit fees gives a value of approximately $50 - $55 at
the Russian border. Transmission costs from the border to the Moscow region would reduce the value to
-45 -



approximately $45 - $50 at the city gate. However, the quantity of gas which Russia can export is capped
by the desire of European countries to maintain diversified sources of supply. Hence, the netback figure
probably overstates the true economic value. In consequence, for purposes of this analysis, the economic
value of gas delivered to the participating cities has been conservatively estimated at $US 40 per MCM.
Price of Electricity
The economic price of electricity in Russia is depressed by the effect of current over-capacity in the system.
Hence, in calculating an economic price based on long-run marginal cost, the discounted value approaches
the short-run marginal cost of supply. The low cost of the primary thermal fuel (gas), together with the
prevalence of co-generation (CHP plants account for approximately 40 percent of total capacity) further
limit the economic value. Since no comprehensive analyses of long-run marginal costs of supply have been
carnied out in Russia, the economic value of generation has been taken as $25 per MWH (approximating
the marginal operating cost of a low-efficiency gas-fired thermal plant). Since there is less reserve capacity
in the transmission network, the economic value has been assumed to be $10 per MWH. Distribution has
been assumed to be $35 per MWH, based on high distribution losses and the relatively decrepit state of the
networks.
Price of Purchased Heat
The economic cost of purchased heat (as for example in the case where a heating company substitutes
purchases or heat through rehabilitation/replacement of its own heat sources) was estimated based on
production in a new boiler house using the cheapest available fuel. Two prices were calculated:
e   In cities where natural gas is available, the economic price of purchased heat was estimated at US$
10/GCal based on investment costs of $90/Gcal-hr, a levelized annual capital recovery rate of 15%,
3,000 load duration hours, and boiler efficiency of 90%.
* In cities where natural gas is not available: the economic price of purchased heat was estimated at US$
18.5/GCal based on investment costs of $200//Gcal-hr, a levelized annual capital recovery rate of
16%, 3000 load duration hours, and boiler efficiency of 85%.
Despite some existing over-capacity in heat generation and/or co-generation, capital costs have been taken
into account in the economic analysis for two reasons. Part of the over-capacity is associated with isolated
networks and/or abandoned industrial boilers that could only be connected to the load centers by extensions
to the pipe networks. The capital component of heat purchase prices is therefore a proxy for these
incremental investments. In addition, many of the other surplus heat-producing facilities are in a bad state
and/or need replacement. Their remaining economic life is short, and their costs of operation would be
considerably higher than those associated with new boilers.
Price of Water
The economic price of water was estimated to be comparable to financial prices in full market economies,
adjusted to reflect the shadow prices of local inputs.
Prices of Other Inputs
The economic prices of other inputs, including foreign currency, labor, local and foreign equipment
(competitively procured), and mazut were assumed to be equivalent to their financial prices. While local
labor is arguably used inefficiently (due to overstaffing), wages have not yet recovered to the levels that
- 46 -



prevailed prior to the financial crisis of 1998. Hence, current wages are assumed to be equivalent to the
economic value of the workers.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Switching values for assunptions with respect to key inputs to the EIRR calculations were computed for
the project as a whole and for each of the cities. Results are summarized in the table below.
Capital Cost Factor       1.83         2.19         1.52         1.496        2. 109        1.90
Price of Gas              NA           -1.26        -0.97        13.63         NA           NA
Price of Electricity     -17.77        -5.27        -6.36        9.50        -18.35         NA
Price of Water           -3.84         -0.65       -15.77        -2.11        -13.84       4.03
Price of Purchased        0.11         -8.85        -0.02        0.49         0.21         0.41
Heat
Total Benefits            0.55         0.46         0.69         0.69         0.46          0.52
Avoided Investment       -0.88         -1.17        0.20         -0.20        -1.80        -3.34
Note that the switching value for the value of gas in Mytishi is greater than the base case assumption.
Mytishi proposes to replace heat purchases by connecting settlements to an existing boiler house. Hence, a
large part of the project's benefits are in terms of savings in purchased heat and in asset repair/replacement.
Similarly in Mytishi the replacement of CHSs with IHSs will lead to a significant increase in the amount of
electricity  consumed.   However, this increase is offset by savings in heat losses and in asset
repair/replacement.
The switching analysis suggests that the project's economic viability is sensitive only to relatively large
shifts in the basic assumptions. Capital costs can increase by up to 83 percent over the base case
estimates, while total benefits can decline by up to 45 percent. In terms of specific benefits, in all instances
the value of a benefit can decline to zero without jeopardizing econornic viability. However, among the
individual benefits, the analysis appears to be most sensitive to the value of savings in purchased heat (in
terms of the quantities saved and/or the associated price per Gcal), and to the value of avoided investment.
- 47 -



Consolidated - Five Cities
All Components
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
jEIRR                                               28.%
Total Capital Coas                                35,478,795        US$
35,478;795        USS
P  adt Start Date                                   2001
Project In-Service Date                             2005
Paojed Useful Life                                   20.0             are
Reference Year for Investment Costs                  1999
EX enditures
2001           2002           2003         2004        2005
Exs ditures in p nr of total                         19%            2B%            27%         22%           3%
accumulated                                       19%             48%           75%          97%         100%
Expendsures in 1999 PrIces                         6,828,933      10.054,845    9,629,120    7,992,292     983,600
- fromfhts locall                                3.346.357      4.329,255      3t870,091    3435128      33t591
Savlnss                                             2001            2002          2003         2004         2005         2006         2011         2016        2021
FUel Cost
Natural gas cygate pice
- quant oYrJf fuel tGf aO i)                        7,204          16,435        -24,792      -57,480     -43,297      -43,297      -43,297      -43,297      43,297
-cost oflfuel (/GCal)5.00 5.00                                      9.00          5.00         5.00         5.00         5.00         5.00         5.00        9.00
-Subtotal                                          36,022          82,173       -123,959     -287,401     -216,486     -216,486     -216,486    -216,486     -216,486
Natural gas (smatf baler house pie)
- quanty of fue (GCal) 1                             0             18,807        49,483       63,487       65,623       659623       65.623       90,623      65,623
-ost of fuel ( I GCaO                              #DIV/O!          2.74          2.92         2.97         3.06         3.05         3.06         3.06        3.06
-SubtDtal                                            0             51,488        139,720      188,479     200.495      200,495       200,495     200,495      200.495
WMazu
- quanty of fuel (GCal) 1)                          -87            -6,527        -10,098      -6,763       -4.611       -4,611       -4611        4,611       4,611
-oDst of fuel (lO GCal)                             4.71            4.71          4.71         4.71         4.71         4.71         4.71        4.71         4.71
- Subtotal                                          4,135         -30,751        -47,576      -31,863      -21,727     -21,727      -21,727      -21,727      -21,727
Coa/
-quanty of fuel (GCal) 10                                            0            229          457          457          457          457          457          457
-cost of fuel I  GCal)                                                            6.37         6.37         6.37         6.37         6.37         6.37        6.37
-Subtotal                                            0               0            1,455        2,911       2,911        2 911         2,911       2,911        2,911
Total fuol costs                                    31 ,888        102, 909      -30,360      -127,873     -34, 807     -34,807      -34,807      -34, 07     -346807
o_       costs
Untsfafed Wafer
- quant  d water r3)                               45,179         125,450        166.870      199,343     217,584      217,584       217.584     217,584      217.584
- cost of water  rm3)                               0.65            0.65          0.65         0.65         0.65         0.65         0.65         0.65        0.65
-Subtotal                                          29,366          81,042        106,465      129,573     141,430       141.430      141,430     141,430      141,430
Tteated Wafer
- quanti of water (m3)                             29,946         107,990        190,221      264,917     306,267      306,267       306,267     306,267      306,267
-oDt of water  m3)                                  2.00            2.00          2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00        2.00
Subtotal                                           5892           215980         380,442      529,833     612,533      612,33        612,533     612,533      612,533
Tolta water                                         89,29          297522        488.907        95.406     753,963      753,963      753,963      753,963     753,963
-quaay  ofeledtriciMywh)                             71             137            138    1   2,060        3,280        30280                     3,280  3,280  320
1- o  of elecricK( / Mh)                            70.00          70.00          70.00        70.00       70.00         70.00        70.00       70.00        70.00
Total electric                                      4,956              ,590       9,633       144.233      229.607      229,607      229,607      229,607     229,607
Total opsrating costs                         |     94214          307,112       498,540      803,638      983.570       83.570      983,570      983,570     983,570
Mfaintenance andrepair sp'a    costs
numberol spare parts                                 1               1              1            1           1            1             1           1            1
-cost of spare ars (Jurit)                         42,780         154,727        297,799      428,913     493,073      493.073       493,073     493,073      493,073
-others                                              0               0             0            0            0            0            0            0           0
Total spae part costs                               42,780         104,727       297,799      428,913      493,073      493,073      493,073      493,073     493,073
Aiaintenance andirepair pronecodsts
-rmalntenance peronndl (man-mroth)                   0               0             0            0            0            0             0           0           0
-salriesof ersonnel                                  160            160            160         160          160          160           160         165          160
Total psronnal                                        0               0             0            0           0             0            0           0            0
Total malrtenance and ma ar costs                   42780          104727        297 799      428,913      493,073      493,073      493,073      493,073     493,073
Neat Purchaose
quantiy of urhased heat GCa                       35,523         97392         2099959      312_227      337,710      337,710      337,710      337,710     337,710
-heat radiate rica                                 14.07           13.64         12.39        1213         1221         1221         12.21        12.21       1221
iPumlrasedlreat                               i   499.639    |   1,338,123   |2,600,417  |3.76734.4   4.123,996        4,123,996    4,123,996    4,133,956    4,123,996
Asokied dtcesendt                                  243,539    |   816,890     | 1,461,597  | 2,030,720    2,261,1211  2,206,654| 1.564.442  | 1,573.772    1,932,530 ]
Rn/iduat Value of decommicsfsioned  aerec'mt          0               0             0            0            0            0            0           0      0           J 
Residual Vat  oftnvsntnrsfr 2020 afO                          |       O       | 0  0  0          0            0            0            0           0            0     J
Total Savlngs                                      1,045,308      3,131.183      5.414,793    7,519,99    8,424208     8.369,742     7,727,530    7,736,809    6,095,619 ]
|Nt cash flow                                     -5,783.625   |4,923,662       -4,214,327|  462,294      7,440,604    8,369,742     7,727,530    7,736,859    8,095.618
NPV buat CoSt savhngs                      |       -149,857
NPV eater savings (tread and untreated)           4,495,360
NW electrtiy savings                              1.149,480
NPVOW&M sar,gsv;                                  2,877,080
NPV heat purchases                               24,422,383
NNPV alechiy sales herm CHP       
NPVaddit$al heal sale                             3.9646539
NPV,tatcosts.sahg,r|    48260.577
NPv - Tota Captal Costs                          26,597,755
NPV - Nat Cash Flor                              21.662,822
-48 -



Dubna
All Components
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
IRR                                                 333%
Toat Capital Costs                                5,929.950         USS
5.929950         US$
P     Start Date                                    2001
Projed In-Servioe Date                        I     2005
Proic Useful Life                                    20.0            ea
Reference Year for Ivestment Costs                   1999
Expenditures
2001           2002          2003        2004       2005 1
Expendilures in Percent of total                     24%            27%           27%    |                0%
accumulated                                       24%             51%          78%         100%        1W0%
Exp  ditures in 1999 Prices                        1,409,617      1,609,864     1,582,860   1,330.609      0
- trom this local                                 612.377        7015,91       6932343     612,412       0
Savins 52001                                                        2002          2003       2004        2005        2006       2011       2016       2021
fftutt5 gas (ct ate Pm
gaus offetY gCat 1nc                          9,818          30,554        51,103     95,238      69,740      69,740     699740     69,740     69,740
- cost of fuel I OCel                 ~~~~~           ~~~~5.00  5.OD  5.00      5.00        5.00        5.00       5.00       9.00       5.00
Subtotal                                          493089         192,768       255,517     226        3486999    348,699    348 699    348,699    348699
Natural gas (smal bol/e how  pk)_
-  euaratitet ofuel (GCal 1)                         0              427          2,963       6,409        544       8,544       8,544     9,544      8,544
- coat of fuel (/GC                                 5.63            5.63         5.93        5.63        5.63        5.63       5.63       5.63       5.63
- Subtotal                                           0             2.403         14,419        047      48,062      48.092     48,062     48,092     48.062
Mrazut                                                                                                                       I                    I _
-qua   otf ueIGCal) 1)                               0               0             0          0           0           0          0          0          0
-oost of fuel ( GCal)                               4.71            4.71         4.71        4.71        4.71        4.71       4.71       4.71       4.71
-Subtotal    0,0                                                                   0           0          0           0          0          0          0
coal
quatt of fuel GCall 1                                0              0             0           0           0          0           0          0         0
-rostof fuel( IlGCal                                6               6.37 _ 9.3 7   9.37      6637        9.37        6.37       6.7        9.37       6.37
SUOrtaotl                                            0              0             0           0           0           0          0          0         0
TotalfueloDsts                                      49069          1269939                  362234      396,762     306,762    399,762    396762    396762
o -mgcosts
Ujntreuatd Waler
-squanty o water (m3)                                0               0             0           0          0           0          0          0     1    0
-cost of water (m3)                                 0.65            0.65         0.65        0.65        0.65        0.65       0.69       0.95       0.65
-Subtoal                                             0              0             0-          0           0          0           0          0-        0
Treated Water
* quanity d water (m3)                             36,621         112,588       1832175     242,786    271,157     271, 1515   7 2,157    271 157    271,157
-cest of water (m31                                 2.00            2.00         2.00        2.00        2.00        2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00
- Subtotal                                         73,241         225,175       366,349     485,572     542.314    542,314    542,314    542,314    542,314
Total water                                         73,241         225.175      366,349     485.872     5422314     542,314    542,314    542,314    542,314
* quantiY  electriciy (Mwh)                          0              117           699        174        2,331       2,331       2,331     2,331      2,331
- cost atelricity 1 I Mwht                          70.00          70.00         70.00       70.00      70.00       70.00      70.00      70.00      70.00
Total etecadcly                                       0             8,159        48,951     122,279     163,170     163170    163,170    163,170    163,170
Total oPrating costs                                73,241         233,334      4152300     907950      705.484     705.484    705.484    705.484    705.484
Mainteenance and nIar spwr part costs
- number of sDreDarts111                                                                       1          11                     11                    1
costpo a re part (/un41                            7,318          22,938       29169       5350        S9,b65      59.605     59,605     59,605     59.605
-others                                              0              0             0           0           0          0           0          0         0
Total sare part costs                               7,318          22,938        396168      53.350      59.605     59,605      59,605    59,605     59.605
Matentranc  nd Weir persoonne costs
maintenance peronnel (man-month)                    0               0             0          0           0           0          0          0          0
-salaries of Dsonnel(                                160            160           160         160        160         190        160        160        160
Total personnel                                       0              0             0           0           0           0          0          0          0
rotal malntenance and mpair costs                   7,318          22,938        39,168      53,350     S9,605      595605      59,605    59,605     59605
Heat Purchases
-      of purchsed heat (GCatyrl                   1,309           4,144        7197        9,724       8,724       6,724      8724       8,724      8,724
-heat purchase price                               10.00           1000          10.00        .00       10.         10.        10.00      10.00      10.00
Puahasod heat                                       13 086         41,439        71,973      87,239      87,239     87,228      87,239    87,239     87,28
Avoidedtinvestment                             1    63,468    1   1988616     1 337,2511 445.4621 48697181 486.7181 421.5381 228.920  1 486.718 1
Rteidual Valu ofdacommmsslodeulpment          I                      0                   0           0           0          0          0          0
ResIdual Value otftrrs_9nt aftr 2020                                                                                   0          0          0
E~~~~~~~~~ r                                                      I           I    ,                       ,                           I
TotalSa;ns a                                       206,202         951,498      1,133,628   1.5562326    1.735,80    1,735,808   1,70628  1,478,010  173508
Net ash flow                                      -1,200,414      -958,366      -449,232    225,927  | 1.35806   1,735,806   I 6,b70,628  1,47b,010  1 735.80
NotPrrentValue (dlsountrrte12%)                  US$
NPVfual cost aengs                                23856082i
NPV water savngs (hnaled and untFatea)            3,2698,O
NPV elricity sarings                              857,407
NPVO&Msavmgs                                       350,295
NPVheat aadrses                                    546,118
NPV eectdity sales sal CHP                              0
NPV adlendl heat sales h                                0
NPV total oosts savings                          89891,701
NPV - Total Caltal Costs                          4,5110,00
INPV - Net Cash Flkw                              5,380,14q
- 49 -



Kostroma
All Components
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
EIRR                                                  20.9%
Total Capatal Costs                          _       5,630.025         USS
5.630,025         USS
Proect Start Date                                      2002
Proiert In-Servire Date                                2005
Proiect Useful Life                                    20.0            years
Reference Year for Investment Costs                    1999
Expenditures
_     2001            2002      1   2003 1    2004           2005
Enpenditures in percent of total                        0%             37%           29%          17%         17%
accumulated                                          0%             37%       1   6%    I    3%            100%
xpenditaues in 1999 Pnces                        I      0        1   2,096 409 1a ,N408 1983,605             983,605
- fnm this local                                       0            0 65004sa       580459  1  33,594 .1 339,591
Savings                                                2001            2002          20D3         2004        2005        2000        2011       2016        2021
Fuel Coat
Natura/ gas (dh gate pnce)
-quanltt ottuel oGcal) 11                               0               0             0            0           0           0           0           0          0
cost of nuel (I GCal                                  5.00            5.00          5.00         5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00       5.00        5.00
-Subtotat                                               0               0             0            0           0            0          9          0           0
Natural as Isnat holer house ape)
- quanti   a o fuel (GCal) 1)                           0             10,390        46,919      57,079       57,079      57,079      57.079     57,079      57,079
-nst ofinet (IGOatj                                   2.67            2.07          2.07         2.07        2.07         2.67       2.07        2.67       2.07
cSubtDtal                                              0             49,095       125,301      192432      102.422   152.432       152,432    152,432    12,432 
Mazut
-uaraiyoftfuel GatsCal                                 0               0              0           0            0           0           0          0          0
- rant of fuel / GCal)                                 4.7             4.71          471         4.71         4.71        4.71        471        4.71        4.71
-Subtotal                                              0               0              0           0            0           00                     0          0
-antl ofhelc(CaO                                        0               0             0            0           0
c cost of fuel / GCal)                                 6.37            6.37          6.37        6.37         6.37        6.37        6.37       6.37        6.37
-Sototalf                                              0               0              0           0            0           0           0          0          0
T;otal felosts                                          0             49,095        1252301      152,432     152,432     19824S2     152,432    152,432    152,432
Operatr  cost.
Untreated Water
-quantity d water (m3)                                  0               0             0            0           0            0          0           0          0
-oost of water f / m3)                                 0.65            0.65          0.65        0.65         0.85        0.65        0.65       0.65        0.65
-Subtotal                                               0               0             0            0           0            0          0           0          0
Treated Water
qua    of water (03)                                   0             1,509         4.526        7,332       9,926        9,926      9.926       9,920      993
- ost of water / m3)                                   2.00            2.00          2.00        2.00         2.00        2.00        2.00       2.00        2.00
-Subtotal                                               0             3,016          9,003       140664      19,853      19,853      15,053     19,953      19,853
Total water                                              0             3O018         9,053       145604       1953        19.853      19893      19.853     19,953
quantiyof electriciwt r                                0               190           491         982          582         582         982        992        902
- oost of eloectricit (I Mwh)                         70.00           70.00          70.00       70.00       70.00        70.00      70.00       70.00      70.00
Totat electricit                                         0            13,290         330644      40.716       40.710      40,710      40,716     40.710     40.716
Total operating osts                                    0             16,304         42,697      55,380      60059        90,508       058       60,568     60,568
Maintenance and reoair sparear costs
-number ol sare parts                                  0                1             1           1            I           i           1          1          1 
-cont of spar  arts Oast                                0             19,205        S116         74,773      88,676      889676      88,676     88,676      80,676
-others                                                 0               0             0            0           0            0          0           0          0
Total spare pact oosts                                   0             19.205        53.116      74,773       88,676       88,676     90,676     88,676     98,676
Malntenance an    ,pir ersonnel costs
- maintenance nenronel (man-montb)                      0               0             0            0           0           0           0           0          0
-           Palaries   enonnets(                       160             160           190          190         190         100         10          160        160
otal Personnel                                           0               0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
Total maintenance and mparcosts                          0            19,205         53,116      74,773       88,676      88676      9870        98,676      8676
Host Purrhases
quan   o purcrhased heat (GCaOir                       0              2955          8,966       19,357       34,429      34,429      34,429     34,429     34,429
heat purohase pdce                                   10.00           10.0          10.00       10.00        10.00       10.00 I  10.00         10o 0.00
Punhased heat                                           0             29,553         88,509      192,570     344299      344,289     344.289    344,        344,288 0
Avoided Inrvestment                                   32.906          131,718       320,342     445,523      448,585     448,585    217.803    24.048    271,471
Relsdual Value of decromissioned equ)pment              0                              0           0            0           0           0          0          0 
Residual Value oafnvestment after 2020                  0                0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
Total SonIngs                                         32,906          245,865       630, 115    921 ,978    1 ,094,550    1094,50     63,768         1      97,436
Net cat flow                                          32,906        -1,910,043      -976,293     41,826      110,945    1094,560    86,766    96613         917,4
Net Present Value (disount rate 12%1               USS
NPV tcoStsatingas                                     9141195
NPV water savings (treated and untreated)             107,994w
NPV altreicity sawngs                                 244,6391
NPVO&MasMngs                                          501865|
hNWheat purhases                                    1.767.467
NPV elrc  sabstrom CHP                                    0
NPV additrinal heat saes                                   1
NPV total coss sawngs                               5.766,1141
NPV - Total COpital Costs                           3,065,987
INPV- Net Cash bFlw                                  1,800,1271
- 50 -



Mytlahi
All Components
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
|EIRR                                                  203%     3
Tetal Captal Coatsa                                 11,819,979 1       USS
1  11819979           USS
P   et Start Date                                      2001
Prolect In4Sersoce Date                                2004
Promect Useful Lie                                     20.0            years
Reference Year for Irnestment Costs                    1999
Expenditures
2001            2002      1   2003        2004         2005
Eoenritures in pw lot d total                          13%             30%           32%          25%          0%
accumulated                                          13%             44%           75%         100%        100%
Ex5end/tures in 1999 Prices                          1,575,09        3573,801      3,740,010    2.931,078       0
- fromm thisbal                                     549,731        1 194.009      1,371,462    1.229754       0
Savings                                                2001            2002          2003        2004         2005        2006        2011       2016        2021
Natural gas frit sate prce)
-quan   of fuel (GCal) I                             22,552          55.211        11,509      -34.886     -25,181      -25,181     .25,181    -25,181    -25,181
-ost of fuel (/ GCall                                  5.00            5.00          5.00        9.00         5.00       5.00         5.00       500         5.00
-Subtotal                                            112,709         276,057        57544      -174432      125,904    -125,904    -125,904   -125,904   -125,904
Natural gas famalf boier house ecq_
-quantf of fuel (GCll 1)                                0               0             0            0           0            0          0          0           0
-cost of fuel  I GCal                                  5.63            5.63          5.63         5.63        5.63        5.63        5.63       5.63        5.63
-SubtotaW                                               0               0             0            0           0           0           0          0           O
ubanitafuel  Cal 1                                     0               0            -602 -J 806            -24408                   -2406      -2,408     -2408
-osslttofuet (I Caf                                   4.71            4.71           4.71        4.71        4.71         4.71       4.71        4.7        4711
- Subtotal                                             0               a           -2.936      -8,909      -11.345     -11,345 .  ,            -11,34II
coal
- quarity of fel (GCal) 1)                              0               0            229          457         457         457         457         457        457
cost offuel   GCal)                                  6.37             6.37          6.37        6.37         6.37        6.37        6.37       6.37       6.37
-Subtotal                                              0                0           1455        2,911        2,911      23911        29191 1    11           911
Tot ftuel costs                                       112 ,759        276,057        56,163     -180,030    -134,339    -134,339    -134.339   -134,339   -134.339
Uptrng costs
Untreated Water
- quan  at water (m3)                                89241            45,975        83,781      100,120     108,289      108,289     108,289    108,299    106289
-cost of water( Im3)                                  0.65            0.65          0.65         0.65        0.65         0.65        0.99       0.99       0.65
-Subtotal                                             5,357  =        29884      -54,459        60,079       70,388      70,389      70,388     70,386     70,388
Treated Wafer
rueawte)Water s3)                                     7.327           31,424        49,376      60,854       71,269      71,269      71.269     71,269     71269
- cost of water m/ m3                                  2.00            2.00          2.00        2.00         2.00        2.00        2.00       2.00        2.00
- Subtotal                                            14,653          62.848        98,751      121,767     142,537      142,537     142.537    142,537    142,537
Total water                                           20,010          92,732        153,209      186,845     212,926     212,926    212.926    212929    212 926
- quarkfey of etekiv (Mh)              R52                            -201           -926        -1,36       1122        -1,122      -1,122     -1132       -1122
-oosteS of aletric(I Mw)                              70.00           70.00          70.00       70.00       70.00        70.00      M76.0       70.00      70.00
Toal at   cd                                          -3,631          -14,092       -64.786      -93,539     -78,511     -79,511     -78,511    -78,511    -79,511
Totdal opera t custs                                 168379           78,640        98,423      93,306      134,4414      13414     134414    134,414    134414
MfaInteance and repw sa-     wcosts
snuberdof spareIpat                                     1               1              1           1           1            1           1          1          1
-coDst    a spm carts (unit)                          11,642          53,937        112,507     159i771     17911        179,119     179,116    179,118    179,118
-others                                                 0               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
Total spare part Msts                                 11,642           53,937       112,507      159,771     179,118     179,118     179,118    179,118    179,118
Maantenarce and niad lr  rsonne cost
-mralrtenance      el man-mronth)                       0               0              0           0                        0          0 o         0          0
T-saarlesof   snnle                                     60              160           160         160         10          160         160        160        160
ITotal mersonadl                                 |       0    _  1 0     0             0            0           0           0           0          0           0
Total meltenanceand   aircosts                        11,642          53,937        112.507      15971                    791179      79,11      179,118    179,119
Het Purchses 
cquant  of Purchasad heat (GCeVyr)                    0              2,533         74,445     143,715      143606      143,606     14300      143,606    141306
-heel pucas price                                            10.00   10.0                 10.00 1900        10.00        10.00       10.0       10.00 I  10.00
Pu pchased heat                                         0             25,330        744,449    1,437,147    1,436,055    1,436,055   1.436.055  1,436,0 5
AvoihaesInatorient                                    65,766     1   245,803    1 411,1131  561,695  1 661,239  i  661,239  1 449,953 1 494,091    564,229 1
RoWesiu  Value of decommis/al/oned qu met               0                0             0           0            0           0           0          0          9
ResidUa/f Value ofinhrsasnree  after 2020                                                                                   0           0          0          0
otalSrtng a                                           206,546         679,767      1412655    2071,990    2,276499    2       499    065209  21069         2179,479
Mt cash flew                                        -1,368,543       -2,894,034    -2.327,355    -859,188    2,276,488   2,276,488   2,069208   2109,340  2,179,479
fItN P,natVaJUO Foeiatratlab12%)                   USS      I
NPVfrw COstsfoas                                     -3f1,524
NPVweder savigs (eated and useater O               1,263,001
NPV elecicrly evrgs                                  475271
NPV ODM sadngs                                      1045,45601
NPV hea purchases                                   7,961,0631
fNPV eledctly esafsrom CHP                                 0
NPV acdichate shrbs Ce   P
NPV total costs savngs                             12,807,128
|NPV - Total Capital Costs                           a,790,161
INPV - Net Cash Ftow                                4.026,961
- 51 -



Norungri
All Components
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
EIERR                                               33.2%     I
Total Capital Costs                               8,931,615         US$
8,931,615        US$
Peoi  Staul Date                                     2001
Project In-Service Date                             2005
Project Useful Life                                  20.0           yeas
Reference Year for Investment Costs                  1999
Expenditures
Expendtitures m percent ot total                    2001    r         2002        2003       2004        2005
En enditures in prcent of total                      33%            24%           22%         22%         0%
acumulatect                                       33%             57%           78%        100%        100%
Expendituresin1999Prices                          2,958,119-      2,110,662     1,931,417f  1,931,417'     0
. from this tocal                                t 771,539       1.462,B95     744,187     744.187       0
Savings                                             2001            2002          2003       2004        2005        2006       2011       2016       2021
Fuel CDst_
Natural gas lodv eate plneJ
-uantit of fuel (GCal) 11                             0              0             0           0          0           0           0         0          0
- cost of fuel (I GCal)                             5.00            5.00          5.00        5.00       5.00        5.00        5.00      5.00       5.00
-Subtotal                                            0               0             0           0          0           0           0         0          0
Natural gas (smal boler house pfo)
-quantit of fuel (GCalO 1i                           0               0             0           0          0           0          0          0          0
- cost of fuel (I GCal)                             5.63            5.63          5.63       5.63        5.63        5.63       5.63       5.63       5.63
-Subtotal                                            0               0             0           0          0           0           0         0          0
Mazat
- uantityoffeW LGCa.1I                               0               0             0           0          0           0           a         0          0
- coost of fuel I GCaI                              4.74            4.74          4.74       4.74        4.74        4.74       4.74       4.74       4.74
-Subtotal                                            0               0             0           0          0           0           0         0          0
-ouanty of fuel cGCal) 11                            0               0             0           0          0           0           0         0          0
- cost of fuel (I GCail                             6.67            6.67         6.67        6.67        6.67        6.67       6.67       6.67       6.67
-Subtotal                                            0               0             0           0          D           0           0         0          D
Total fuel msts                                       0               0            0           0           0           0          0          0          0
Op etlng Costa
Unheated Water
qUnt of ater m3                                    36,938          B6,189       106,569     132702      133775      132,775    132,775    132,775    132,775
- coatofwatert  m3-                                 0.95             65           0.65       0.65        0.65        0.85       0.65       0.65       0.85
-Subtotal                                          24,009          56,022        69,269     79,756      86,303      86,303     86,303     86,303     86,303
Treated Water
gmaityof waterm(3)                                   0               0            D           0           0           00                    0          0
- cost of water ( I m3)                             0.75            0.75          0.75       0.75        0.75        0.75       0.75       0.75       0.75
-Subtotal              _0                                            0             0           0          0           0           0         0          0
Total waser                                         24,009         56,022        69,269      79,756      86,303      86,303     856303     86,303    868303
- uantty f felecity Mwhll                            539            1,258         918         918         744        744         744        744       744
- cost of electritty (I Mwh)                        70.00          70.DO         70.00       70.56       70.00      70.00       70.00      70.00      70.00
Total electricitY                                   37,754         8,092         64,252      64,252      52,111      52,111     52,111      2111     52,111
Total oPerating costs                               61,763         144,114       133,521     144009     138,414     1384414       13,414    13414    138,414
Malntenance and repair spare par cost
-number of spare parts                                1                     1                  1           I          1           1                    1
-cost of sPare Parts (untll                        28,239          71,886       986245      120,145     131,095     131,095    131,095       0       131085
-othems                                                      0                    0           0           0           0          0          0          0
Totalhsre parcosts                                  28,239         71.866        98,245      120.145    131.095     131,095    1315D95    131.095    131,099
Meintenance and pair rosonnet cools
- mamcenance Personnel (man-ornoth)                                  0            0            0                0                 0          0         0
-salaries of pernonel                                160            160           160         160        160         160         160        1tO       160
Total pemonrine                                               0             0            0           0           0                0          0          0
Total maintennce and_   air costs                   29,239         71,886        9t,245      120145     131,095     131095      131,095    131,095    1310896
Heat Purchases
- quanty o purnasedr heat (GCalYr                  18566          45541          4469       95610       95,030      96,030     956030    986,030    96,030
- heat purdhase pnsa                               17.78           17.78         17.79       17.78      17.78       17.78      17.7B      17.78      17.78
Puorhased heat                                     330.069         809,617      1.146,121    1.520.172    1,707197    1.707,197   1,707,197  1,707,197  1,707197
Avrolded Investnent                                 64.241         192,724       327.892     469.147    5395875     539.875    404.906    539.875    539 875
Resfdat Value of decom.tsaloned equlpment                             0            0           0           0           0          0          0          0
Residual Value of lnvestnent after 2020                                                                                0          0          0          0
Total Sainga                                       484,313        1,218,341     1,705,580   2,253,473   2,515,581   2,516,581   2.31 613  2,516,581   2516,581
Net cash flow                                     -2,473.806       -892.321     -225,837    322,056    2,516,581   2,516,581   2,381,613  2516,86
Net Prneet Valee ifdlount rate 12%)              US$
NPV uel cost savings 
NPV  atIe saings (teated and untreated)            556.582
NPV ectricity saAings                              426,286
NPVO&M savings                                     821,964
NPV hetprchases                                  10,446,4851
NPV ateddrity mabs fnea  CHP                            0
NPV addilional heat sales r C
NPVIonacoests sErngs                             15,198,150
NPV - Total Cital Costs                           6,925,979
|NPV - Net Cash Fl^m                        I     8272,171f
-52 -



Syzran
All Components
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return
rEIRR                                                  28.3%
Total Capital Costs                                  3,167,227         US$
3,167,227         US,
Protle Start Date                                      2001
Project In-Service Date                                2005
Proect Useftl Life                                     20.0             ears
Referene Year for Investiment Costs                    1999
Ex enrditures
2001            2002          2003 1   2004            2005
Expenditures in perornt of total                       2B%             22%            24%         2S%          0%
accumulated                                         26%              50%           75%         100%        100%
Expenditures in 1999 Prices                          889,108          704,110       768,425     805 584        0
- from this local                                   412,710         320,302        480,641     509.184        0
Saig                           _                       2001            2002          2003         2004    1   2005        2006        2011       2016        2021
eatua os fel gate 1                                  -25.165         -69.331        -87,404     -67,831     -87,856      -B7,856    -87,856     -7,856     -87,856
-contof feel IGCaI                       0~~~     ~     ~~~~~          ~~.00  5.00  0.00  0.00  0.00        6.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
- Subtotal                                           -125,826        -346,653      -437,021     -3 6         439,281    -439,281    -439,281   -439,281   -439,281
Natura gas (smnall baiter house pnice)
quantityoffuel(GCal)1)                                  0               0             0            0           0           0           0          0           0
-costotfuel (I GCi)                                     63 5.63                      5.63         5.63        0.63        5.63        5.63 5.63              5.63
-Subtotal                                               0               0             0            0           0           0           0          0           0
-  anti ot fel (GCal 1 )378                                          - 6,527        -9,496      .4,957       -2 ,203     -2202       -2,203     -2 203
-cras rztoluelA / GCal)                                4.71            4.71          4.71         4.71        4.71        4.71        4.71       4.71        4.71
- Subtotal                                            -4,135         -30,751       -44,739      -23,353     -10.382     -10,382      -10,382    -10,382    -10,382
Coal
- quant o fuel (GCal) 1)                                0               0              0           0           0            5          0           0          0
-cent of feel I lGCal                                 6.37            6.37           6.37        6.37        6.37         6.37       6.37        6.37       8.37
Subtotal                                               0               0                          0           0                       0          0           0
Total fuel rosts                                     -129,961        -377,404       -481,760    -462,510    -449,663    -449,663    -449,663   -449,663   -449,663
Operating costs
Untrated Water
- quantity of water (m3)                                0             -6,714        -23,480     -23,480     -23,400      23.480     -23,480    -234,40     -23,480
- ost otwater( I m3)                                   0.65            0.65          0.60         0.65        0.60        0.65 6      065        0.65        0.65
- Subtotal                                              0             -4,364        -15,262     -15.262      15,262     -1 5,226    2 -21,262              -10,262
Treated Water
- quantb o water (m3)                                -14,001         -37,530       -46,856      -46,085     .46,085     -46,085      -46,085    -46,080    -46,085
-cos of water ( / n3)                                  2.00            2.00          2.00         2.00        2.00        2.00        2 00       2.00        2.00
-Sabtotal                                           -28,002          -75,061       -93.711     -92,171      -92.171     -92.171     -92.171    -92,171    -92,171
Total wate                                            -28.002         -79,425       -106.973    -107,432    -107.432    -107,432    -107,432   -107,432   -107.4.32
- quanly of electricb (Mwh)                           -417            -1,226        -1,035        149         745         745         745        745         745
- cst of electricb ( I Mwh)                           70.00           70.00          70.00       70.00       70.00        70.00      70.00       70.00      70.00
Total electricity                                     -29,167         -85.855       -72.429      10,426       52,121    52,121        52,121     52,121     52.121
Total operabnp cOsts                                 -57,169         -165,280      -181,402      -97,007     -55,311     -55,311     -55311    -55,311      -55311
MaSnttnance and, epir spre p,t costs
anum treo  Dre nit s                                   I                1                                                                           
coot d Spm e parts (/unt)                            -4,419         -13,240        -5,237      20,874       34,579      34579       34,579     34,079     34,579
-oft,e                                                 0                0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
Total spae part esto                                  -4,419          -13,240        -5,237      20,074      34,579       34,579     34.579      34,579     34,579
Malntenance andr rpaierponnel costs
maintenance personnel mran-maonth)                    0                0             0           0            0           0-          0          00
salares ot prsonnel                                   160             10            160          160         160         160         100         160        160
Total person.el                                          0               0             0            0           0           0           0          0           0
Total maintenance and mpair costs                     -4,419          -13 240        -5,237      20,874       34,579      34,579      34,579     34,579     34579
Heat Purchrses
- quanti d putchased heat (GCallyr)                  15,648          42,216         54,922      54,922                   54,922      54,922     34922      54,922
-heat purchase pnce                                   10.00           10.00         10 00        10.00                   10.00       10.00      1000        10,00
Purchased beat                                        156,484         422,185       549,216      549,216     549,216     549,216     549,216    549,216    549,216
Avoided Investm ent                                   17.157          48,029         65,19       10, 5903    124,704      70,238     70,238      70,238     70.238
Residual V.lue ofldcor nmissh- nedfaeup n2 t                             0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
ResIdual Vale. of dvest,mennfn aftr p02m,enc                                                                                0o                       
TotalSavin s                                          115,341         335,711       532,815      7i6,421     800,71      746,314     746,314    746314    7
,Net cash flow                                       -773,767        -36B.399       -235,610     -89,183     600,781     746,314     746.314    746,314    746.314
Net Preen Value disount rate 12%                   US$
NPV feel cost sa-ings                              -3.W08.305
NPVwater avirn,s (treated and untreated)             -720.254
NPV electrity savings                                 96W4191
NPV O&M nasings                                       151,4961
NPV heat prohses                                    3.701,250
NIV elertricityswles frsm CHP                        .   
NPV addbieonal heat sales                           3,s54,539
NPV total cDa  satArss                              4.s57.483
NPV - Total Capital Costa                           2.414.072
NIPV-TeCCastFFluw C                                 2,183,4111
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
a) Financial Rates of Return
From the perspective of financial feasibility, the project and its components all yield a high financial rate of
return, despite the relatively low prices paid for energy supplies - and the low economic costs of supply
which will tend to temper future energy price increases. The weighted average FIRR for the five cities
assessed to date is 23.4 percent, and the net present value at 10.5 percent is $37.8 million. Among cities,
the FIRRs range from a low of 19.2 percent for Mytishi to a high of 30.0 percent for Nerungri.
The six tables attached at the end of this Annex summarize the FIRRs for the project, including
consolidated figures for the five cities and separate estimates for each city.
b) Main assumptions - Financial Analysis
Inflation and Exchange Rates:
The table below shows the assumptions used in the financial analysis for Russian and international
inflation, and for Ruble/US$ exchange rates.
|Russin Inflation    27.7%   89.3%    32.4%    22.7%   15.7%  I13.8%   12.2%  I10.7%    9.4%    8.3%
|MWJ* Index      -3.9%    -0.6%    2.5%    2.5%    2.6%    2.5%    2.2%    2.2%    2.5%    2.6%
|RR/$US (ave)     9.74    24.63   35.66   40.97   44.45   47.43   49.90   51.85   53.23   54.07
*Manufacturers' Unit Value
For the FIRR analysis, an adjustment has been made to the real prices of local components to reflect the
disparity between inflation and exchange rates until such time as the ruble reaches an equilibrium exchange
rate. Prices originally denominated in rubles were first escalated at the Russian inflation rate, and then
converted to dollars at the projected exchange rates.
Financial Price of Gas:
In 1997, financial prices for gas to domestic customers in Russia averaged approximately $55 US
equivalent per 1,000 cubic meters (MCM), including VAT. This was some 10 percent above the
corresponding economic value. With the devaluation of the ruble in August of 1998, financial prices in
dollar terms dropped by two-thirds, and by 1999, averaged only $13 per MCM. Under strong pressure
from the government, Gazprom agreed to maintain gas prices in ruble terms, although they reached an
agreement with the governnent to reduce the excise tax component of the price from 30 percent to 15
percent. In late 1999, the Federal Energy Commission issued Resolution 46/5 which increased gas prices
by approximately 15 percent from an average of 320 RR/MCM to 375 RR/MCM effective November 1.
In mid-April, 2000, the FEC announced a further increase of approximately 21 percent in wholesale prices.
However, these increases have done little to offset the depreciation in real prices associated with the 1998
devaluation and the domestic inflation in the subsequent 18 months.
It is generally expected that the financial prices of gas will increase over the coming years to approach their
- 54 -



real values in 1997. The rate at which this increase takes place will depend on a combination of the rate of
economic recovery and political and social considerations. For purposes of this analysis, it lias been
assumed that gas prices will escalate more rapidly than inflation between 2000 and 2005, reachiing their
economic value by approximately 2008. The graphs below show the assumed relative rates of escalationi of
gas prices and the consumer price index, and also the absolute financial price of gas over the period of the
analysis.
Actual and Projected Gas Prices
60 00
50.00
40.00
E
o30.00
20.00
10.0 0     |||      _    |    
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
c) Financial Performance of the Municipalities
The following charts summarize the relative impact of project-related expenses on the projected budgets of
the municipalities. In all instances, the annual expenditures associated with cofinancing and debt service
constitute a small portion of total budget expenditures and are considerably less than the amoutnts currently
being spent on communal services (public budget support for housing maintenance, heat, water, trash
collection).
- 55 -



C     - FA  wt Expense Vs Mu icipkO Budge
30.0%
25.0%
20.0%                                                                                    ttt
150%
2000      2001      2002      2003       2004      2005      2006      2(07      2008       2009      2010
Kostroma - Project Expense vs. Municipal Budget
3.j
30 0%
2500°
20~0     4                                               _xc iner
'3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urrt Ex,O                                              o m nlSE ie
10 0%
'1 000
2(00'     2001      2002      2003      2(i04     "'1)05    2'-(A;    2007       2008      2009      2010
- 56 



Mytishi - Project Expense vs. Municipal Budget
35.0#%_
30.0%........................
25.0%
200>; | l l l _11 | | +I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ncl. Interest  X
re 1 5.0% 11|ll|1|Ii 
10.0%
0.0
2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010
Nerungri - Project Expense vs. Municipal Budget
45.0%_
40.0%
35.0%
30.0%
20 02                      20        2lncl. Interest    2
Excl. Interest
rL 200%                                                                               Current Expe On Cnmmunal Servvcei
15.0%
10.0%
5.0%
0.0%
2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010
- 57-



Syzran - Project Expense vs. Municipal Budget
50.0%
45.0%
40.0%
35.0%
25.0%
CL
25.0%
20.0%
15.0%
10.0%
5.0% lll|ll|lll|_~
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
d) Financial Performance of the District Heating Enterprises
The accounts of the district heating enterprises are generally satisfactory. The companies were either
profitable, or incurring small losses in 1998. 1999 results were less attractive, although in most cases the
lags in the prices of major inputs relative to overall inflation served to protect the companies from some of
the losses that they may have otherwise incurred.
The municipal administration is required to set heating tariffs at levels that will insure full cost recovery for
the heating companies. Financial projections have therefore been carried out on this basis, and the required
tariff increase computed, both in nominal and in real terms. The detailed pro-forma financial statements
are included in the Project Files. The tables below summarize the key findings in terms of required nominal
and real increases in tariffs, as well as key highlights of financial performance of the municipal heating
companies.
In calculating the required tariff, it was assumed that the municipalities would provide funding for the local
components of project costs, and would repay the principal on the loan. The municipal heating enterprises
were required to generate sufficient revenue to cover prudent operating expenditures, interest and fees on
the borrowed money, and a 10 percent markup on total operating costs as a contribution to profit. In
addition, on completion of the project, the heating enterprises were expected to fund ongoing capital
expenditures equivalent to their prior year's depreciation expense.
- 58 -



Dubna - Required Tariff
1998     1999      2000     2001      2002      2003       2004     2005       2006       2007
Tanff(RRIGcal)                                     106       119       183      289       494       704       798       833       858        902
Real Increase vs 1998                                       -41%     *31%      -12%       30%       63%       65%       56%       47%        42%
Net Profits (million RR)                           (2.0)    (1.5)      0.1      (4.1)      1.3      3.6        7.2      10.9      14.7       18.8
Cash Flow (million RR)                             -        (3.2)      3.0      (1.6)     5.8      13.9       2312     12.2       13.5       19.6
Long Tenm Debt (million RR)                        -         -         -        66.7    153.1    250.7       343.5    356.9      329.8      297.7
Short Term Debt (million RR)                       -         5.6       4.5       9.2      9.1       6.4        3.7      2.1        0.5        0.0
Gross Capital Investment (million RR)                                           8 *  07.4    106.9    114.0  104.2     23.5       30.4       33.3
Debt Service Ratio                                0.01      0.02       -        0.10     0.31      0.56       0.83      1.04      1.14       1.26
Net Fxesd Assets (million RR)                     77.2      74.1      94.3    190.4    326.5    470.1        600.0    666.1      726.0      703.1
etm onNRFA                                       -2.6%    -2.1%      0.1%     -2.1%     0.4%      0.0%       1.2%      1.6%      2.0%       2.4%
Kostroma - Required Tariff
1998     1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004       2005       2006        2007
Tariff(RR/Gcal)                                   109       125      153       253       393      557        64S        711        769         828
Real Increase vs 1998                                      -39%      -44%     -24%        1%      26%        31%        30%        28%        28%
Net Profits (million RR)                           4.0     (7.6)     (5.1)     6.1      15.7      30.1      47.5       50.9       69.1        79.0
Cash Flow (million RR)                            31.2    (39.8)    (31.1)    (10.5)    (8.1)      7.0      34.5       40.4        59.6       70.2
Long Tem Debt (million RR)                                  .         -         6.1    121.4    212.6      285.7      363.0      335.3       302.8
Shorn Tem Debt (million RR)                       -        39.6      65.0     71.8      81.6      74.5      46.4       26.3        12.8        3.5
Gross Capital Investment (million RR)              -        0.0      11.4       6.4    143.3    122.3       82.2      100.0        26.6       33.5
Debt Serice Ratio                                 0.09    (0.03)     0.03     0,22      0.43      0.80       1.16       1.39       1.50       1.86
Net Fixed Assets (million RR)                     04.0     87.4      93.8    116.9    272.6    419.0       531.2      669.5      725.6       783.0
Return on NRFA                                    4.7%     -8.7%    -5.4%     5.2%      5.7%      7.2%      0.9%       8.8%        9.5%      18.2°
Mytishi - Required Tariff
1998     1999      2000     2001      2002      2003       2004       2005       2006       2007
Tariff(RRtGcal)                                   105       104       140      213       348       507        585        622        656        690
Real Increase vs 1998                                      -47%      47%      -34%       -7%       19%        23%        18%        14%        12%
Net Profits (million RR)                         (25.7)   (15.6)     10.3       9.3     12.7       22.5      28.5       36.7       45.2       54.2
Cash Flow (million RR)                             -       15.4       0.9       9.9     19.3       41.3      65.2       52.3       53.8       61.4
LongTermDebt(millionRR)                                     -         -       67.9    220.5       412.3     581.1      603.8      557.9      503.7
ShortTerm Debt (million RR)                        1.9      0.2      11.7     10.4       9.2        6.4       3.7        0.9        0.5        0.2
Gross Capital Investment (million RR)                       -         -       103.5    233.1      262.2     219.4       39.6       53.5       58.5
Debt Seice Ratio                                 (0.16)   (0.09)     0.14     0.16      0.33       0.66      0.97       1.23       1.36       1.49
Net Fixed Assets (million RR)                     95.1    113.3    107.5    230.0    487.7        792.9   1,069.0    1,169.6    1,274.7    1,375.0
Return on NRFA                                  -26.6%    -13.3%     9.2%      4.0%     2.6%       2.8%      2.7%       3.1%       3.5%       3.9%
Neruagri - Required Tariff
1998     1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004       2005        2006       2007
Tariff(RR/Gcal)                                   21S       219      222       275       319      356       390        415         439        469
Real Increase vs 1998                                      -47%      -591%    -59%      -59%      -6/o     -61%        -62%       -63%       -64%/
Net Profits (million RR)                          19.8     (3.3)     15.3     21.1      33.9      45.5     52.8        61.2       70.5       81.4
Cash Flow (million RR)                            -         2.0      28.6      0.1      52.8      73.5     91.6        97.2       82.3       90.0
Long Temnt Debt (million RR)                      -         -         -       140.3    258.7    380.3    509.7        529.6      489.4      441.9
ShortTermDebt(millionRR)                                    1.0       1.0       2.2      2.1       2.0      1.9         1.9        1.8        1.8
Gross Capital Investment (million RR)             -         -         -      182.5    138.6    139.9    147.2          10.4       46.8       50.4
Debt Service Ratio                               0.26      0.04      0.21     0.39      0.69      1.00      1.27       1.52       1.66       1.83
Net Fixed Assets (million RR)                    131.S    124.8    159.0    369.7    547.9    736.1    936.0    1,007.8    1,099.1    1,185.6
ReturnonNRFA                                     15.1%    -2.6%      9.6%     5.7%      6.2%      6.2%     5.6%        6.1%       6.4%       6.9%
Syzran - Required Tariff
1998     1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007
Tariff(RR/Gcal)                                      96       106      155       219       316       423       487       528       564       613
Real Increase vs 1998                                        -42%     -36%      -26%        -8%       8%       11%        9%        6%        7%
Net Profits (million RR)                           (9.4)     (3.5)      4.7       7.6      10.8      14.9      17.8     21.2      24.8      28.7
Cash Flow (millionRR)                               -         1.1      (0.3)      8.3      15.1      23.6      30.4     25.4      27.3      29.4
Long Temn Debt(million RR)                                    -                  33.1      79.2    130.0    185.8    193.1       178.4    161.1
Short Term Debt (million RR)                        -         5.4       6.7       5.1       3.6       2.0       0.5      0.0       -         -
Gross Capital Itnvestsment (million RR)                       ,         -        43.8      57.8      59.6      63.9      15.0     19.2      21.1
DebtServiceRatio                                  (0.17)    (0.01)     0.23      0.39      0.65      0.98      1.28      1.55      1.71      1.89
NetFixedAssets(millionRR)                          71.8      68.7      87.5     146.8    220.3    299.3    384.6    421.5    459.3    495.5
RetumnonNRFA                                     -13.0%     -5.2%      5.3%      5.2%      4.9%      5.0%      4.6%     5.0%      5.4%      5.8%
- 59 -



Consolidated - Five Cities
All Components
Value added lao                                      20%
Custom duDes0                                        1 5%
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
Total Ca ital Costs                               46 203 062        USS
Project Start Data                                  2001
Project In-Servlce Dale                             2005
Prolect Useful Life                                   20
Reference Year for Innestment Cost.                 1999
Currenc exchange ret.                               24.630         Rbh/USS
Currency exchange rate & Inflation                   2001           2002          2003         2004         2005         2006         2011         20,16       2021
Accumulated ination                                 1.324           1.624         1.879 1   2.139    1   2.399           2.656        3.795       4.608        4.98Y
Fuel Price lnrease                                  1.800           2.790         3.767        4.896    1   5.876        6.522        9.321       12.240        6.07:_
Currency eocheqe rate                               35.657         40.970         44.450      47.430       49.900        51.850       53.840      53.840       53.84(_
0.037          0.040         0.042        0.045        0.048        0.001         0070        0.086       0.093=
0.050          0.069        -0.005  -1 0.103           0.118        0.126        0.173      _0227         0.299-
Expenditures
Expenditures  1  2001  1  2002  2003      2004         2005         Total
Expend8ures in percenst of total                   219.25%          8.34%        27.14%       22.50%       2.77%
Expenditures in 1999 Prices in US$                8,821,583       13,096,421    12,591,570    10,397,240    1.296,248    46,203,062
Loca in US                                       4,015,629     0,195,105       4,644,109    4,122,153    407.509     18,384,505
Etennat in USS                                   4,805,904       7.901t315     7,947461     0,275,087    6888,739    27,818,556
Totai Espedilute in Current Prics is US$           0.821.583      13.096,421    12.591.570    10,397.240    1,296.248    46.203.062
irom this VAT                                    1.470,264      2.182,727      2.098,595    1.732.873    216.041     7,700,510
Vron. his Custom Duties                          5223            8060839       8638654      6823075      960602      3.0233756
Savings                                             2001            2002          2003         2004         2005         2006         2011         2016        2021
Fuel Cost
Noaturl Oas (c lv ata rfice)
- fquanblv of hel (GCal) 1)                    7,204          16,435        -24,792      .57.480     43,297       -43,297      -43,297      43,297       -43,291'
uosti of fuel (GCai) 1                           16.475          50,698        -95,164     -268.809     -230,951     -246,714     -259,793    -259.783     -259,763
gmurali of fuel bGile 1 p                            0             18,607        49,483       63,487       65,623       65,623       65,623      65,623       65 62
- Subtotal                                          0             58,487        160,201     212.888      228,496      231,607       240.594     240,594      240,594
V#zut                                                                                                                             I                        I
- uanti(y of fuel (GCa) 1)                         -878           -6,527        -10,098      -6,763       -4,611       -4,611       -4,611       -4,611       - 4,611_
- cst of fuel (/GCal)                               2.95           3.98           4.95         5.65        5.65          5.65         5.65        5.65         5.65_
Subtotal                                          -2,588         -25,967       -49,989       -38,235     -26,073      -26.073      -26,073      -26,073      -26.07 3
.Subtotal                                            0               0            229          457          457          457          457         457          457_
-cost of fuel (GCal)                                                              7.64         7.64         7.64         7.64         7.64         7.64        7.64
- Subtotal                                            0              0 1          1.746        3,493       3,493         3.493        3,493       3.493        3,493
Total fuei                                          13,587         83.218         116794    --90.604       -25,035      -3,6          41.769     .41.769      -41,761
OpentIng colstI
Untreated Water
- quanti of ate (m3)                               45,179          125,450       166,870      199.343     217.584       217,584      217,564     217,504      217,584
-cst of "ter 1m3)                                   0.38           0.41           0.46         0.53        6.59          5.6          0.86        1.15         1.36
Soubtotal                                         17i276          516887        77022       104.988      127i338       135,923      1867074     240,301      300,395
Treated Water
- quandty of water (m3)                            29,946          107.990       190,221      264.917     306,267       306,267      306,267     3061267      300,367
- cost of iater I m3)                               0.31            0.33          0.35         0.37         0.40         0.42         0.58         0.70        0.76
- Subtotal                                          9,149          35,238        66,190       98,325      121,182       129,103      177,688     215,745      233,547
Total water                                         26,425         87,123        143417       203,313      248,521      265,026      364,762      456,047     533643
- unty of eecitricity (MWh)                            71             137          138        2,060        3,280         3.280       3,280       3,280        3,200
-costoelectrncity/MWh)                              14.80          13.74          11.11        29.01       33.03         35.26        48.52       62.33        77.92
Total electricit                                    1 048           1,882         1529         59773       100338       115641       159,160      204445      255 572
Total opertin costs                                 27,472         6 005         144646       263.087      356,858      380,667      523,922     680,492      789,515
aintfenane, and repar, sare part costs
-        pae rt(unit                                  1              1              1           1            1            1             1           1            1
-cosl     o sPae  rts usit)                       49             181 307     372,135         571.702     700,643      746,438      1,027,341    1,247.381    1,350,316
Iolhers                                               0              0             0            0            0            0             0           0 I
Tofatspare part costs                               46,938         181.307       372,135      571,702      700,643      746,438      1,027,341    1,247,381   1,350,3)6
MMaiotenan coadrosd air eo'n"i cosIi
- maintenance peronnel (man-month)                    0              0             0            0            0            0             0           0            0
-seades of Personnel) 
Tofal osonnel                                 |                       0             0            0            0            0            0           0            0
Total maitenance andre pr costsT    46,938                         181,307   r   372;135      571,702    700,643        746,438      1,027,341    1247,381    1.350.0)
Hoat Purchases
q- ubty oft urchased heat (GCalr                   35,523         97,392        209,899      312,227      337,710      337,710      337.710      337,710     337,715
-heatturchaese  ce                                  7.86            9.32          9.91        11.16        12.56        13.40         18.45       23.70       29.62
Purchasoed eat                                     279.268         907.473      2,059,139    3,485,601    4,240,894    4,529,797    6,230,343    8,003,025    10,004 p .03
|Aottfd inrestment                                 363,367         957.221       1,826,439   2,706,767    3,212,987    3.340.538     3.259,588    3.961,341    5,292,3F9
Residual vlaie of dacommisseoned eqcuipment           0               0             0            0            0            0            0           0            0
Residal Valeu.of lnsest.entafte,20208                 0               0             0            0            0            0            0           0            0
Total savings                                       791,633        2.4540335     46807.023    7,397,176  1 9,001,362    9,506.489    11.756.040   14,822,360   18,609,;20
Net cash lw                                        -8,029,950  +   -10,642,085    -7.784.547   -3,000,065    7,705,115  i  9,500,489   1 ,756,040 1 14,822,360   158,09 ',
Not Present Vas. Idisount rte 10.5%)                 USS
NPV fuel cost savings                                  -177,125
NPV water savings (Imeted end untreated)              2,187,914
NPV electridly savings                                 864,304
NPV O&M savings                                       5.969,819
NPV heat purchases                                   36,982,091
NPV eltrcity sales from CHP                                  0
NPV additionalthteatsates                             4.745.464
NPV total c5sts savings                              73.600.372
INPV - Total Capital Costs                           35,802.100
INPV - Net Cash Flow                           |     37,803,271 j
- 60 -



Dubna
All Components
Value addd tax                                         20%
Custom dubes                                           15%
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
IFIRR                                                 21.6       1
Total Capital Cots                                  ,7711,780          OSS
Proaict Start Data                                     2001
Project In-Service Date                                2005
Pro ect Useful Life                                     20
Refernce Year for Inveatment CostsI                    1999
Currency earchane rteb                                24.630          Rbl/USS
Currency exchange rate & Inflation                     2001            2002          2003         2004        2005        2008        2011       2016        2021
Accumulated Inlatlon                                   1.324           1.624         1.879   1   2.139        2.399       2.656       3.795      4.608       4.989
Fuel Price Inrease                                     1.800           2.790         3.7B7   I   4.896        5.876       6.522       9.321      12.240     16.073
Currenc exchang rate                                  35.657          40.970         44.450      47.430      49.900       51.850      53.840     53.840     53.B40
0.037           0.040         0.04        0.045 1  0.048           0.51        0070       0.086       0.093
0.050           8.068         0.085       0.103        0.118       0126        0.173      0.227       0.299
Expenditures
2001            2002          2003         2004        2005        Total
E penditures in percent of total                      23.72%          27.15%        26.69%       22.44%      0.00%
Expenditures in 1999 Prices in USS 1$,30,803                         2.095,326     2,059,545    1.726,006       0       7,711.780
Locat In USS                                        734,853         841 910        832,012     734,894        0        3,143,669
External In USS                                    1096B051       1,253 416      1,227,533    991,112        0        4,568,112
Total Espendituro in Curnt Prices in USS             1.830,903       2,095.326      2,059,545    1,726,006      0       7,711,780
from this VAT                                       305,151         349,221       343,257     287,669         0       1,285,297
from this Custom Duties                             119136          136,241       133.427      1107730        0        496,534
Savin g                                                2001            2002          2003         2004        2005        2006        2011       2016        2021
Fuel Cost
Nafumi gas (rit gate OM)
-uany  of fuel (GCa) 1)                               9.818           300554        51,103       65,238      69,740      697740        67       6740        69,740
- coso tf fuel ( / GCal)                               2.29            3.08          3.84         4.68        5.33        5.70        6.00       6.00        6.00
quanb of fuel (GCai) 1)                             22,451           94.254        196.162     305,087     371,998     397,389     418,439    418,439    418,439
Nafomi gas (smel Wortr Susa pdce)
nbuanit  of fuelt (GCal) 1)                             0              427           2,563       6,408       8       ,544  85544        54        544       8,544
cost of fuel I GCal)t                                  2.29            3.08          3.84         4.68        5.33        5.70        6.75        6.75       6.75
-Subtotal                                               0              1,318         9,839       29,969      45,577      48.688      57.875     57,675      57,675
Mazuf 
-quanut of fuel (GCai) 1 )                                              0              0                       0            0                      0          0 i
-cost ot fuel I GCalt                                  2.9S            3.98          4.95         5.65        5.65        5.65        5.65        5.65       5.65
-Subtotal                                               0               0              0           O           0            0          0           0          0
Coat 
-Subtotal                                               0               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
-cst ao fuel /GCaO                                     4.69            6.32          7.64         7.64        7.64        7.64        7.64        7.64       7.64
Subtotal                                                0               0              0           0           0            0     U                0          0
Total fuel                                            22,451          95,572        206,001      335,056     417,575     446,077         114    476,114    476,114
o eetlng castsII
Untrsated Wafer                                                                                           I                        I
-uantyof water m3)                                      0               0              0           0           o0           0 o        0           0          0 
-cotlmater IIm3 I                                      0.09            0.12          0.14         0.16        0.18        0.19        0.26        0.33       0.42
-Subtotal                                              0                0             0           0            0           0           0          0 
Treated Water
- quantib ot water im3)                               36,621          112,588       183.175     242,786     271,157      271,157     271,157    271,157    271,157
-costo1 wler  m3;                                      0.31            0.33          0.35         0.37        0.40        0.42        0.58        0.70       0.76
-Subtotal                                             11,188          36736         63738        90111      107290       114303      157318    191 013    206774
Totalwatwe                                            11,186          36,736         63738       90,111      107290      114303      157316    191 013
- quansty of electricity (MWh)                                           117         699        1,748       2,331        2.331      2.331      2,331       2
-cost of elec1ddty (I MWh)                            17.92           22.04          25.99       30.35       33.93        36.22      49.84       64.03      80.04
rotailesectricit                                         0             2,569         18173       53,088      79.087       84,419     116,187    149,246    186,569
Total peraIns costs                                   11,188          39,305         81911       143,169     186,377  119,722        273 505    340,258    393,342
Maintenance adreparspa r     t errcosts
I -   parts (c ltI                                      1               1              1           1           1            I           1 1        1
costot sre parts unit)                               8,029           26,879        48,945       71,111      84,697      90,232      124,189    150,788    163,230
-others                                                0                0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
Totalspar part costs                                   8,029          26,879         48.45      71,111      94,697       90,232     124,189    150.788    163.230
Maintenance and repr aer-s,-t costos1
i- minltenance personnel (man-month)            i                       0              0           0           0                      0           0          0
a-sariesfPersonnel 0                                  146.29          156.24        163.62       177.72      189.46      201.85      277.81     337.31      365.14
Total personnel                                          °               0             0           0            0                      0          0           0
Total aintenamceandre  Ircosts                         8,029          266879         48,945      71,111      04,697       90,232     124,19     150,708    163,230
Heat Purch ass
Q ueat iyof  haurcsed healtGCalyr) C21|309                            4.144         7,197        8,724       8,724       8724        8,724       8.724      6,724
h eat purctlOe  toec                                  5.24            6.44          7.59        8.86         9.91        10.58       14.56      18.70      23.38
Purchasedheat                                          6,851          26,682         54,630      77,332      86,453       92,281     127,008    163,146    203,945
AvoldedInvestmentl                                    94,697          232,738       421,435      593,761     691,612     733.817     878,293    579,125   1,332,901
ReoSdual Voiue of decommissioned equlpmeat       I                       0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
Residue Value oflnsasftmntafterr2020                    0                0                   0            0           0i                0          0          0
fstal sangs                                      |    143,216         421,174       812,923    1,220,429   1466,714    1,564.129   1,879,111   1,700,432  2.569.533
Net cash flow                                       -1,687,687       -1,674,153    -1,246,622   -505,577    1,466,714   1,564,129   1,879,111 I 1,700,432   2589,533
Net Present Value (dso.nt rate 1l.5%)                  USs
INPV ul cost savings                                    2,904,353
NPV mater savings (treated and untreated)                 931,859
NPV electrcity saWings                                    650,194
NPV O&M savings                                           732,128
NPV heat purchases                                        775,238
NPV electnclity sales from CHP                                  0
NPV additional heat sales                                       0
NPV total costs savings                                10,941.631
INPV -TotalCantl Costs                                    6,057.114
INPV - Net Cash Flow                                    4.884,517
- 61 -



Kostroma
All Components
cVrDlue relded tax                                    20%
ICusom  duties                                          15%
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
otal Capi Coats                                      7425617           USS
Pro act Start Date                                     20
Projc ln-4ervlce Datse00
Prolot Useful Lifb                                      20
lRenc.Yesrtorlnvestesnt Costs                          1999                      I
Canre n xchang atrts                                  24.630          RbUUSS
Currency exchange rate & Inflation               1     2001            2002          2003         2004        2005        2008        2011   |  2016         2021
Accumulated inflion                              I     1.324     1     1.24      1 1.79           2.139       2.399   1 2.65          3.795      4.608       4.989
Fuet Pfie lnrearse                                                                    1.800  42.790  3.787  4.896  I5876  6.522      9.321      12.2i    16.073
Currency a.chanac rete                                35.657          40.970         44.450      47.430      49.900       51.850     53.840   _ 53.940      53.840
0.037           0.040         0.042       0.045        0.048       0.051       0.070      0.088       0.093
0.050           0.068         0.085        0.103       0.118       0.126       0.173      0.227       0.299
Expenditures
2001            2002          2003        2004         2005        Tobl
Expenditures in percnt of total                       0.00%           36.53%        28.53%       17.47%      17.47%
Euendlures in 1999 Prices in USS                        0            2,720,781     2,112,361    1.296,248    1,296,248   7,425,617
Local in USS                                           0            780.549       896.549      407,509     407,509    2,292.117
Extmal in US                                           0           1,940,211      1,415.811    8688739     889,739    5,133.500
Total Exgandltureln Currnt Pdces hUS                    0            2,720 781     2,112,361    1,296,248    1,296,248    7425617
from this VAT                                          0            453.460       352.060      216,041     216.041    1,237,603
from this Custom Duties                                0            210 893       153.893      968602      98.602      557.989
Savin s                                                2001            2002          2003         2004        2000        2006        2011       2016        2021
Fuel Cost
NatunrJga 0( sabte ccJ' 
-w n offuel(IC)l                                        0               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
-costorfueel  GCat                                     2.31            3.11          3.87         4.72        5.38        5.75        6.00       6.00        6.00
-eOcuns Otf,=elGCM       I                              0               0              0           0           0-           0           0          0          0
Netuntl as .msl/ oier house oice,?
- ucn   Offuele(GCal 1                                  0             18,380        48,919       57,079      57.079      57.079      57,079     57.079      57.079
.cost of fuel ( I GCel                                 2.31            3t.11         3.20         3.20        3.20        3.20        3.20        3.20       3.20
-Sublotal                                               0             57.169        150.361     182.919     182919       182.919     182,919    182,919    182,919
Mczut
uZt ty       ( f   GCa)                        I       0               0              0           0 I0                     0          0           0          0
- cost of tuel (I GCal)                                2.95            3.98          4.95         5.60        5.65        5.65        5.65       5.65        5.65
-Subtotal                                               0               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
Coal
-Subtrotal                                                              0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
|costof fuel GCal|                                     4.69            6.32          7.64         7.64        7.64        7.64        7.64       7.64        7.64
-Sublotal                                               0               0              0           0o          0            0          0           0          0
Total fuel
Io e,ant castsTT7                                                                             r                   
.tuarl Sod waber(m31                                    0                0             0            0           0           0           0          0           0     
-coastufwater Im3T                                     0.08            0.10          O.12         0.14        0.16        0.17        0.23        0.30       0.37
-Subtotal                                               0               0              0           0           0            0           0          0          0
Treated Waerr
ueo9  Of waler m3                                     0             1.509          4.526       7.332       9,926        9,926     9.926        9,926      9,926
cosMwabter(lm33                                        0.31            0.33          0.35         0.37        0.40        0.42        0.58       0.70        0.76
Tol water                                                0              492          1.575        2.721       3.928       4.184       5.759       6.992      7,569
-uan0t8 of electrcicl(MWh)                               - .             190         481          562           2           2 582     582        582          2
. coDt atreclcdtv/ MWhT                               15.77    T      19.39          22.88       26.70       29.95        31.86      43.85       56.33      70.41
Totatl eehdbici                                          0      T      3,681         10.989 1  15.530         17362       18,532      25506       2763r  40 957
Totd o0eratint costs                                                                                                               I
Mahi                    arance ndre  arspae prt coals
I- So reparb(unliOI                                     O11  0          1              1           1           1                                   1 1  1     1
-costaof re prts lunitiI                                0             22,505        66,375       99.665      126,006     134,242     184.761    224,334    242,844
I - otrs0                                                               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
Total  Ire   rIcosts                                     0            22.505         66.375      99.665      126,006     134.242     184.761    224,334    242,844
Mootooc ndre 1lr cssoooc costs
-maintenance ssonnel (man-month)                        0               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
-saleiesof Pesonel                              1    146.29           156.24        166.62       177.72      189.46      201.85      277.81     337.31      365.14
ITotsl rsontnnedt                                        0               0             0            0           0           0           0          0           0
TotMl MMatoteec and     r costs                          0 °           22,505       966375       99,665      126,006     1 34,242    184,761  I 224,334    242.844
mHat Purchases
- 060n8  ofu rchasedheat (GCatvr)                       0             2,955            .866     119.357      34429       34.429      34.429     34.429      34.429
I     -heal   chase c                                 4.94            6.08           7.16        8.37         9.35        9.98       13.74       17.65      22.06
Purchwed hem(                                           0             17,959         63,512      1861941     322.002     343,710     473,056    607,652    759,612
Avoidedin,restment                                    49.097          154.346       400,306      594,242     637,426     679,089     453.802    609,793    743,436
IRealduatValueof otdscoemissonedequapmtet               00                                          0           0           0           0          0           0
ResIdualValueofinvestmenteftt.r2020,                    0                0             0           0            0           0           0          0           0
Total d  si                                      |    49,097          256,151       893_117    1057018    1,2899642    1.362.6760   1325,803   1. 63 453  1977336
Nt catsh flow                                    |    49,097         -2,464,610    -1.419,243   -239,230  | 8,606        1,362,676   1,325,803   1,663,453   1977.336
Net Present Values dlountl at 10.5%)                   USS
NPV fuel cost savings                                           0
NPV wster savtngs (treeted and untreated)        |         32,095
NPV  ecricIty seags                              I        153,080
NPV O&M savings                                  I      1.000'198
INPV heal purchases                                     2.09,357
tNPV electridS sales from CHP                                   0 
NPV addItional heet sales                                       0
NPV total costs savings                                 9.515 389
NPV. Total Capiial Costs                                5,4840122
INP. Net Cash Flow                                       4.05,267
- 62 -



Mytlahi
All Components
iValue adided tax2%
Custom duties                                          I5
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
1.2%
Total Capital Costs                               1015529.479 1        US$
Project Start Date                                     2001
Prjoect In-Sarest  Date                         I      20 
Project usefut Life                                     20 
Raferauce Year fo, tinvestment Costs                    99
Curreo exchane rote                            1     24.630     1    RblIUS
Currency exchtange rote & Inflation                    2001            2002          2003        2004         2000        2000        2011       2010       2021
Accumulated inflation                                  1.324          11.624         1.879       2.139        2.390       2.006       3.795      4.0        4.989
IFul Price Inrease                               I     1.000           2.790___   3.707  4I 8.96              5.876       0;.522   I .321   I12.240  I16.073
Currency e"chang orate                                35.607          40.970        44.400       47.430      49.90       S1.0        53.940     0340        3.0
0.037           0.040     1 0.042         0.045        0.048       0.001      0.070       0.6        009
0.000           0,000         0.005       0.103       _.118        0.126       0.173      0.2        029
Expenditures
2001            2002          2003        2004         2005        Total
0E,pnditures is prcent ut ltOal                       13.33%          30.24%        31.&64%      24.80%      0.00%
Eupenditures In 1909 Prices in USS                   2.074,672       4,716,924     4.014.301    3,823,532      0        15,520,479
Local In US$                                        6590677        1,4320810     10645,704    1,470,700       0       502130946
Exlemnal In US$                                    1,414,995       3,204114       3,205096    2,3470827       0       10,315,532
Totat Eupediture is Current Pricew is US$            2.074.672       4.710.924     4,914.351    3.823,532      0        15.529,479
from this VAT                                       345,779         786,154       019,058     637.255        0        2,588.246
from this Custom Dut,es                             1530804         356,909       355 282     255 199        0        1,121,202
Savinga                                                2001            2002          2003        2004         2005        2000        2011       2010       2021
Nacuri al (city gate prica)
uanOty of tuel (GCal) 1)                            22,552          50,211         11,500     -34,886      2510        -25 101     -25 101    -250101    -25,101
-cost of loot (I GCaI)                                2.29            3.08          3.04         4.60        5.33        5.70        6.00       6.00        0.00
quan000y of fuet (GCa1t 1)                           51,572          170,320       44.177      -163,148    .134,317    .143.485   .151,055    4I05 -151.005 -11,0
Afeturegas (5small ailer hous  rice)
qanut f fluelGCal,l1                                  0               0             0            0           0           0           0          0          0
- cst of fuel I GCaSI                                 2.29            3.00          3.04         4.69        0.33        5.70        6.75       0.70        6.75
.Subtotat                                              6               0              0           0           0            0          0           0          0
quantity of00 fe GCoI) I                               0               0            -602        .1,800      -2,409      -2,400      -2,400     -2,400      -2 400
-cast of fuel I GCalI                                 2.00            3.90          4.905        5.65        5.65        5.05        0.65       a.Oa        9.05
Subtotal                                              0               0           -2.900      -021         -13.614     -13.014     -13.0!14    -13,014    -113.014
-Subtotal                                              0               0             229         457         457          407        457         457        45
-cst of fuel  I GCOI                                  4.69            6.32          7.04         7.64        7.64        7.64        7.04       7.04        7.04
-Subtotal                                              0               0            1.746       3.493        3.493       3.493       3,493      3,493      3,493
Total fuel                                            51,572          170,320       42,943      -169.8661 -144.430    -1536000    -161.207   -101.207  -101,207
Operating costs
Urt,reafed Wotre
- uanlty at water (m3)                                8.241          45,970        83,781      100,120      100.209     1GB020       00 10     100289     100,209
-costof water (Im3)                                   0.09            0.12          0.14e  0.18  0.0                      .9         0.24       0.24r       0.24
-Subtotal                                             773             5,300        11,306       150891      19,214      20,510      20,2208     68         45,327
Treated Water
q uantity atwater (m3)                                7,327          31,424        49.376       60,004      71.269      71,269      71,209     7129         1,6
-cast of water (  .3)                                 0.31            0.33           0.35        0,37        0.40        0.42        0.04       0.04        0.44
-Subtotal                                             2,239          123            '1711       225697      291099      30,042      41,340     000         54,347
Totalwwter                                             3,011          1054           2 7         38,400      47,414       500052     60,5706     06         09074
q uantity ofelectricit (MWh                     -        52             201      -    2      -1,3 691.122I-1,22                    1,2        -1.122    -11322
-cst of electricity I MWhr                            17.92           22.04         259          0.306       33.93       3622        40.75       07         07
Total electricity                                      -030           .43           -24052      -400054      -380054     -40,019    -55.900    -71 O81     -077
Total operatin coats                                   2,081          111             510        -2,006       93600       9.933      1306711  140053        90
Mlaitatenace and reaaIspare partcosts
spare prtas (ut)                                       1                1             1           I           1            1           1          1          I
-cost otspare parts (/unit)                          12,774          03,203        140,000     212.9605     204,522     2710        373,202    403,135    490,525
-others                                                0               0              0           0           0            0          5           0          0
Total spare p0 casts                                  12,774          03M0          140.590     212,900      254.022     2110        373.202    453.135    490.525
Maintenance ande aoIr pronannel corst
-malnteoaoc personnel jrnah-moth)                      0               0              u           0           0            0          8           0          0
-saarlesof per0on001                                 146.29          156.24        100.02       177.72      100.46      251.05      269.59     200.59      2606.09
Total personnel                                         0                0             0           0            0           5           0          0          5
Total malnte-aca and repair costs                     12,774          83.203        140.090     212,900      254.522     210         370 202    453,135    4900525
Moat Paedtaess
g-  ntlty of purchased heat tOCally                    0             2S533         74,445      1375        143,600     143600      1436000    143,000     143.600
h eat pSass pice                                     5.24            8.44           7.59        0.00        9.0         110.00      13.60      13.e        13.60
Purhcseedhest                                           a             16,309        565,070     1.234        423,110    1,519,050   2,090,700   2000.5052   3,357,161
Avoldedflosnenbet                                     90.`125         200,029       513,735     7.09         939,001    1,001.015    037,500    1,24990551050
Residual Value of decommlasloned   ofu ment             0               0              0           0           0            0           0          a          0
lReslduat Vofue ofinvsestmeat after 2020                 0               0             0           0            0           0           0          0          0
Total Savinsn1605                                                     040.977      1,260.854    20300       2,482.155    2,647.550   3,253.881  4.242,009   5,241.553
iNat cash flowm                                     4.191020        -4167,947 1 -3,647,497   -1,759,072   2,402100    28647,550   3,2030081  4 242,000 021 
Not PieaotVatae (dteou.t mote  10.0%                   US$
NPV fuel coot savings                                    -722,70
NPV moter sovings (treated and tetreated)                 41 4.0359
N4PV electricity savings                                 -337,735
I4PV 00,1 savings                                       2.170,149
NPV heat purchases                                     12,065,700
N4PV etectrcicty sales from CHIP                               0
NPV additional heat sales                                      0
NPV total costs savIngs                                20,301,706
NPV - Total Capitol Cools                              11,947,023
INPV - Not Cash Flow                                    8,354,183
- 63 -



Nerungri
All Compoonents
Value added tax 20
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
Totat a itel -Costa                                   11.470 523 1        us$
Proleet Start Date                                       2001
IProject In-Service Date                           I      20015     I
Projact Ueeful Life                                        20
Raefernce Year for tnavetment Costsa                     19099
currency exchen a rats                                   24.630     I    RbSIUUO
Cuffency exchange rate & tnf lotion                      2001             2002           2003         2004         2005         2000        2011        2010        2021
Accumulated Inflation                                    1.324            1.624          1.879        2.139        2.399        2.656       3.795       4.008       4.989
Fuel Price lnrease                                 I     1,000      I     2.790      I   3767 I   4.896 I   5.876               0.522       9.321      12.240  I116.073
Currnecy e.chge  a rte                                  3567             40.970        44.450       47.430       40.900       51 .000      53.840     53.840      53.040-
0.3         0.040          0.042       0.045         0.0480       0.051       0.570       0.000      0.003
0.090           0.060          0.005        0.103        0.110        0.126        0.173      0.227       0.299
Expendituras
2001       __2002              2003         2004         2005         Total
E.xenditurasxix prcent of total                         33.12%           2.3            21.62%       21.52%       5.00%
Eupendituresxic 1999 Prices inUS$                      3.763.327        2,645,393      2.531,402    2.031,402        0       11.475.523
Local in US5                                         2,125,947         1,795.474      593,024      893,024         0        5,667,365
Exfermat InUS$                                        1,637,455        593 910i       1,0638378    1,630 378       0        5,089154
Total Eupnoiture is Correct Prices in US$5             3.763,327        2.640.393      2,531,402    2,531,402        0       11,475,023
fr..mthisVAT                                          627,221          441,565        421.905      421,900         5        1.912,587
from this Custom Duties                               177 507          97,165         175 065      178,085         0         631,321
Savings                                                  2001             2002           2003         2004         2005         2000        2011        2016        2021
Fool Coat
Natura gas (cit gala riceo
-uanxtyoflfuel GCall 1                                    0                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           0
-coot of fuel (I lGCal)                                  2.42            3.27           4.07         4.50         5.65         6.00         6.00       6.00        6.00
qanttyof fuel (GCalII1                                  0                0              0            0            0            0           0           5           0
Natural gas xsmaS boiler house rice)
quantityoffuel GCall 1                                    0                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           5
cost of fuel I lOGCal)                                  0.00             0.05           5.0          0.00         0.50         0.00        0.00        0.05        0.00
-Subtotal                                                 5                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           0
tlazxt
titaeoxffueaGCall 1                                     0                0              0           0             5           0            5          0           0
-coatuffel lOGCal)                                        5.44            5.60          5sea          0.00         5.66         sea8        5s8         5.00        5.60
- Subtotal                                                0                 0             0            0            5            0            0          0           0
Coal
-Subtotal                                                 0                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           0
-costlof fuel lGCal)                                     1.04             2.49          3.09         3.77         4.30         4isO         5.93        5.93       5.53
-Subtotal                                                 0                0              9            5            0            0           5           0           0
Total fual                                                 0                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           0
opareatin costs
Unrtraated Walr
-euaxtityofwater m3)                                    36.930           866.180       106.560_   122,702        132,775      132,775      132.775    132,775     132.775
-coat oftwalr ImO 53 .45                                                 0.55           0.65         0.76         0.05         0.90       _1.17         1.17       1.17
-Subtotal                                               16,503          47,360         69,032       920824       112,290      119,860     164.967     211,904     2640896
Treated Wafer
q-taty of water m3)                                       0                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           0
-cstof water f InS                                       0.35             0.40          0.43         0.46         0.49         0.52         0.07       5.67        0.67
-Subtotal                                                 0                0        1     0            0            0            0           0           0           0
Total mater                                              16,503           47.360         69,032      926824       112,290      119,a60     164,967    21194        24 096
q uaxtity of electricity MWh)                              0 39           1.5            918         918           744          744        744         744         74
-cot of elacricit   IMWhb                               17.51            21.54'         25.39        296          33.0         353         45.69       45.69       458
Total electricit                                         9,446            2  O           23.300      2 79 220      2343600     2365 344     36,258     4654         021
Total aperatin costs                               1     25,949           74,460         92,340   1120,044        136,9701  746,204 1201.224           2047        3317
Maet.eoaaoce ande pafro sare part costs
-parepartsounxO                                           1                1              1            I            1            I           1           1           1
-coat of pare prts (..lt)                              30,903           84,235         122,769      160,143      156.202      190.458     273,143    331,845    359.010
-others                                                   0                0              0            0            0            0           5           5          0
Total apare part costs                                   30,903           84,235        122,769      160.143      186.202      108.450     273,143    331,545    359.010
Maloteoooue aod reaar prsonnoel cools
-malntexaxce pesonnel (man-muth                           0                0              0            0            0            0           0           0           0
-salaies of persooel                                    146.29           156.24         106.52      177.72       100.45       201.55       260.55     260.59      260.59
Total personele0                                                    0               0             0           0            0            0                 0           0
Total mainteanace and toDair coats                       30,903           84,235        122.769      160,143      156,202      190 450     273,143    331 645    359,010
Heat Parchaseao
-etity of purochad boat (GCallyr)                    10 566           45,541         64,469      85 510        96,030       06,030      964,30      98 030     9530
- beat  rchase price                                     10.26            12.62          14.88        17.37        19.42        20.73       26.76       26.78      2167.7
P.rchwsad heat                                          190,490          574,685        959,048     1,485,539    1,065,065    1,990,790    2,739.987   3,519,570   4,399,746
AvIoidd fn-est,met                                       95,050          225,831        409,491      625,331      767,146      017,250     843,640    1.356,700   1,478,473
Restiduaf Value of decaaotfaslaoed eqatpmeat               0                0              0            a            0            0           0           0           5
RelalVlu  flrentet after 2820                       5                0              0            0            0            0           0           0          0
ITotal Sect a 5                                         343,277           9,20          153,647  I2.301.057    2.950,463    3.152,750   4.057.994   5,470,401   6,560,347
INet case flow                                         -3,425 650 1   .1.650,173        -947.754     -140,345    2.9505,463    3,152,7500   4,057,994   0 '475 401   6.560,347
Not Prese.nt V.tae (dlseut rota 18.510                        us55
NPV fuel oxat -ainga                                                   0
N4PV wateranig  ftreated and untneatedf                        1,017,674
NPV ala-tricity -aslga                                          203,216
NPV O&M ae-lnga                                                1,606,002
NPV heat purchases                                            16,478,947
NPV additional heal axles                                              0
NPV total coats aa_ings                                      25.380,186
NPV-: Total Capital Cools                                      9,149,614
INPV  . NtCanslo                                              16.236,572
- 64 -



Syzran
All Compoonente
IValue added tax                                           20%7
Custon dutlas                                              15
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
Total Ca teal Co.t.                                      4.060.663    1      US$
IPr.].ot Start Date                                        2001 
Project In-9e,vlc* Oato                                    2005
Pre act U.efal Life                                         2
R.f.renc. Year far .........et coste                       1699
Currsoy exohanga ate                                      24.630           RIU
Currency exchang crate & Inflation                         2001              2002           2003         2004         2005          2006        2011        2016         2021
lAcc.mulated Infletion                              I      1.324      I       .624      I 1.879   I 2.139    I 2.399   L 2.656.....   3.795                  4.608       4.8
Fuel Pr4ce Inreses                                         1.900            2.79 go         2.767        4j.8960      5.8706        6.522       9.321       12.240      1.7
Curren..o eschanga rate                                   35.657            40.970     144.450          47430         48.900       01.950       53.840      53.640      5.4
0.037            0.040      I 0.042           0.045    1   0.048        0.061        0.070       0.068       0.093
0.053            0.068      1 0.095           0.103        0.118-       0.126        0.173       0.27        0.298
Expenditures
201            2002            20 03        2004         620052        Toa
E0pendlture. In percent of tota                           28.07%           22.23%          24.26%       25.43%         0.0%
ttE=dlt.urUe,sin 1998 P40ces In3U$                       1,152,681         914,018         973,912     1,020,053        0        4,060,663
LooxIlnUS                                ~~~~~~~          ~~~~~495,253  364.382  576.768  811.021       0         2.067.404
External In 00$                                         657,428          529,656         397,143      409,032         0         1,893,258
Total Ep nditure In Current Pri.e. In US$                1.152 661         914.018         673,912     1.020.083        0         4,068.663
fronthSl6VAT                                            192,113          162,336        162,319       170,009         0 -    678,777
trots thI. Custom  [utall                               71,460           57.571          43.166       44.460          0         2166599
Savings                                                    2001             2002            2003         2004         2005          2006        2011        2016         02
Maet CoI at  .1  ."l"
quaentlty of fual  Oal" 1,                               -25,1t5          -69,331        -07,404       -87,831      -67,856      -67,656      -87,858     -07,8556     6  5
c 56of tO (I GCalI                                        2.29              3.08           3.64         4.68          0.33         5.70         6.00        6.00        6.00
aa6.ntit' of' foal GCaI 1~                             -57,584          -213,676        -335 503     -410,748     -469 633     .5000 619    .527,137    -527,137    -2   3
NHt., ssml bIe house rIce)
-urtttulC."                                         a                0              0             0            0            0            0           0           0
c00s1 of fuel 1 GOal)                                     2.29              3.08           3.84         4.69          5.33         5.70         6.70        6.75        6.75
-Subtotal                                                   0                0               0            0            0            0            0           0           0
u aentit, off,uel 1GOa'l1 1                               .878            -80527          -9,456       -49g57       -2,203       .2,203       -2,203      .2203       2.,203
-. ooto foau     Oa                                       2.95              3.98           4.95         5.65          5.65         5.65         5.85        5.65        5.65
-Subt.tal                                                -20608           -25,667         -47.009      -26 024      -12,458       -12,458     -12.458     -12.456     -12,458
Coal
-S.btotal                                                   0                0              0             0            0            0            0           0           0
-00606foal IGlCal                                         4.89              6.32           7.84         7.64         7.64          7.84         7.84        7.84        7.84
-Sobtotal                                   ~~~                       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~~           ~      ~     ~     ~     ~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0
Total fuel
operaft    ot
Z-funilyfwte   6                                            0              -6,764         -23 480      -23,490      -23,460      -23,400      -23 480     -23,490     .23 490
- oo of Wae  Im                                          0.05              0.12           0.14         0.16          0.18         0.19         0.26        0.33        0 42
-Subtotal                                                   0               -774          -3,191        -3,727       -4.188       -4,447       -6,120      -7,882      -9,929
Treated Watar
- uantity of water 6.13                                 -14,001           -37,530         -46.966      -46.065      -46.095      -46.085      -46.085     -46,085     -46.095
co0sf of atar (I 630.31                                                     0.33           0.35         0.37          0.40         0.42         0.5         0.70        0. 76
-Subtotal                                                -4.278           -12 24          -16 304      -17.155      -18 235      -669427      -26.737     -32.484     -35.143
Tota -ater                                                -4,279            -13 020        -15 495      -25 831      -22.401       -23,874     -32,658     -40,326      -44.871
u aanth o earlolty MWh                             -        417             1.I226    -    035          149          745          745         740          745         745
-006oeeorotIMI                                            1 7.92           22.04          25.99g        30.35        33.93        36.22        460          40          0.04
ToaZeatn     t                                             -46             -7,038          -609          420          25.263       26.966       37 114      476173      59596
-soot of  are art. lanit                  -~~~~~~J.464      -15,564         .80644       283          49 136        539         72,047      849          940697
-athare                                     ~~~~~                                   ~     ~~            ~~           ~      ~    ~      ~     ~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0    -
Tsa  aaat oa                                     -4 046           -15 514         .6,544       2763         49,130        02346       72.047      67.479      94 897
- mintnan. aeoral   ar-ont                             0                0               0            0            0            0            0           0           0
- alrl. of aasnn,l 11149.29                                           159.24          1666.2-      177.72       109.46       201.80       277.61      33.1        386514
Ta tat ara onnal                             ~~~~~                                  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~~0  0  0  0  0  0   0    0           0
Total1            -denno   .64rasi Cat                    -49848           -15 514         -9 044       279823        49.13t       02.348       72.047      97.479      940697
-u 061ofrotad Seat (O511Y 1r 6046                                         42,2ff         54,922       64,922        54 822       04,922       54.922      64.922      540922
- heat uroSsas  rloa                       ~~~~~            ~~~~~5,24  8.46  7.58         9.66         9.9I6.5                  1456         6.70        23.30
Psrohaaad Seat                              9~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~1,923  271.838  4168979  48 9846   544.265       580.957     799.598    1.027.097   6.283.938
A-1tdadfsat t206598                                                         082680         96 473       1d44744      677.206      108_329      148 344     1770698    692.350_
aadsat Vle.o  aaahotedaa  a                               0                0               0            0            0            0            0           0           0
Iaada   2ae  fteatas  f.292                                                0               0            0            0             0           00                      0
Teta1 S-Ing.                                              916491           268,914        45048 dOt     88  Ot        0736        779,384           1      ,2926 1736 895   2,260,951
Ca.t ...a ft.ew                                          -1 081 100        -645 203       -243         -5501         6739           7934       13951 1731 055   2 280 951
Nat P.r.a.eI V.I.. idia ...t rat. 10.5%                         US$
.47V toolIC.at  0130
NPV  atoreomno  Itr-ato  and untreeteal                           -20 7.7 53
NPV ala-t-ity savngs                                               645, 55 0
N"V 061  a ng.                                                     355S. 752
NPV heat Orhae5,054,750a
NPV dadxitiooal           CHol000                                4.745,464
NPV total -ostae-mog                                             7.480.456
NPV   TotlCptal 00.10                                            3.197.72
NPV  Nat Cash F10-                                               42 62.7 32
-65-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods (including incidental services) and works under the Bank-financed components will
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999.
Procurement of consulting services will follow the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, and January 1999. Total
estimated Project costs by type of expenditure and procurement methods are summarized in Table A while
Consultants selection arrangements are presented in Table Al. Infornation with respect to contract
thresholds, prior review, capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GPN
and other relevant information on the Bank's review process is presented in and immediately after Table B.
The procurement plan detailing the packaging of contracts and estimated schedule of major procurement
actions under the Project is presented in Table B 1.
Procurement: All goods, works and services contracts under the Bank-financed components will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. A qualified Procurement and Engineering Group (PEG)
will be hired to assist the CPIU and to ensure compliance with the Bank's procurement rules. Draft TOR
for the PEG are annexed in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The NFHR will have two procurement
officers to supervise the PEG. LPMUs will work with the CPIU and the PEG in developing bid packages
and evaluating bids for competitively procured goods, works and services and will assist in local
construction supervision o.a behalf of the municipal administration.
Works: (US$ 0.503 million). Baik-financed works contracts (basement reconstruction works) are for: (i)
installation of safety doors; (ii) construction of new floors; (iii) construction of new walls; (iv) painting;
and (v) installation of power supply and power distribution sub-center. There may be about three small
works contracts (each 1.ss than US$ 200,000) made during the second phase involving cities not yet
identified under the Project. Contracts will be procured in accordance with national competitive bidding
(NCB) procedures using ECA sample documents. Each contract is likely to have several sites widely
spread over the territory of each city.
Goods: (US$ 101.035 million) The Bank will finance investments in the rehabilitation and partial
replacement of municipal heating systems in up to 8 cities (5 cities have so far been identified to take part
in the Project. Detailed investment components comprise: (i) installation of individual heat substations; (ii)
rehabilitation of existing central heat substations; (iii) rehabilitation of existing boiler houses; (iv)
installation of new boiler houses; (v) replacement of wom-out district heating and domestic hot water
networks and (vi) installation of new interconnection networks. Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
will be followed for all contracts during the first phase; about seven of these contracts will be "goods
supply" while approximately another 21 contracts will be "goods supply and install". Shopping procedures
are provided for in the Loan Agreement but no such contracts have so far been identified.
Services: (US$ 8328 million). All bank-financed assignments above US$ 200.000 advertised in the UN
Development Business. All consultants contracts now identified for Bank financing will be selected
following Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. Short lists in respect of contracts
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent may comprise entirely national consultants. Individual
consultants will be hired for a limited number of small contracts: typically construction or installation
- 66 -



supervision contracts.
Incremental Operating Costs: (US$ 2.560 million). The salaries of the NFHR staff will be funded by the
Project. Selection of staff will be made on a competitive basis after comparison of several CVs. Staff
salaries will be financed 100% during the project period. Other operating expenses like: rent, consumables,
communication, travel, accommodation and subsistence during travel will be financed on the basis of a
bank review and approval of detailed annual operating budgets, also agreed upon by the Ministry of
Finance.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.50           0.00           0.00           0.50
(0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.30)
2. Goods                           101.04           0.00          0.00           0.00          101.04
(74.35)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (74.35)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           8.33          0.00           8.33
(0.00)         (0.00)         (6.94)         (0.00)        (6.94)
4. CPIU                             0.00            0.00          2.56           0.00           2.56
_    (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.56)             )         (2.56)
S. Interest during                  0.00            0.00          0.00           14.61         14.61
construction
1  °°0)        1° °°)  _      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           0.85           0.00           0.85
(0.00)    _ (0.00)  _         (0.85)         (0.00)        (0.85)
|Total                       | 101.04    |        0.50           11.74          14.61         127.89
(74.35)        (0.30)         (10.35)        (0.00)        (85.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii)
re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
- 67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
E~~~~~~~~~                                                                *
A. Firms           7.73      0.00     0.00      0.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.3^3
_   (6.44)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (6.94.)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.0(i)
Total   7.73     0.00      0.00      0.60      0.00     0.00      0.00      8.33
(6.44)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (6.94)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other Selection of individual consultants (IC) (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines).
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 68 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works               >0frtcontraty nec                 NCB                       0.50
2. Goods
Supply                           >100                     ICB                     14.25
Supply and Install               >0                      ICB                      86.79
3. Services                      >100                    QCBS                      7.73
4. Incremental                   N/A                      N/A                      2.56
Operating Costs                                                               :
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 111.83 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements:
Primary responsibility for overseeing procurement will rest with the Central Project Unit (CPIU) at the
National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR). The CPIU supported by qualified consultants will be
responsible for the preparation of bidding documents and specifications, evaluation of bids and awarding
contracts after approval of the participating cities. There are two procurement officers within the
procurement unit of CPIU. Capacity assessment of the CPIU has been carried out in July 2000. A Country
Procurement Assessment Report for Russia will be available in FY 01. The first-year bidding documents
will be completed by the time of loan negotiations. Consultants have been engaged (grant from Finland) and
are working in the field.
Training, Information and Development on Procurement:
Estimated date of project Launch Workshop : First supervision mission.
Date of General Procurement Notice publication: No. 540, dated 16 August 2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business Yes
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes
Domestic Preference for works, if applicable: No
Retroactive financing: No
Advanced Procurement: No
- 69 -



Brief description of the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
The CPIJ will maintain complete procurement files, which will be reviewed by the Bank's supervision
missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated regularly. Procurement information will be recorded by
the CPIUJ and submitted to the bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This infonnation
will include: (i) revised cost estimates for the different contracts; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions,
including advertising, bidding, contract award, status of contracts, completion time for individual contracts;
and (iii) compliance with specific methods of procurement.
Procurement Staffing. Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) in the project team: Karl Skansing, Head
Procurement Unit, Russia Country Office in Moscow. The Country Office will provide procurement
supervision on behalf of the Project Team.
Table B1: Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule
Goods: Supp ly                                                                                                               _        _____
Packages Years       Contracts     Type of Type o  PQ No of   No of        Estimated Cost (USS)   Bid         lnvitation to  id   Contract Contract Cortract
Contr   Doc        Bid   | Cont                               Preparation  |Bid date   Opening  Award   Signing  ICopI
_ j~packs                                           I _  Dat                         Date    Date     Dat
=   1            ~~~~~~Totat       8DT_
Sov of Dintrict Heating Pipes
Year2001        | MYT/MHP/014  [I1 ICB I    |  I   |  1  |   1,302,549                  813,280      Oct-OO   |an-01    Apr-I| May-O| May-01   D,,c-0 |
Year2002        [ MYT/MHP/015  [ G         ICB            1      1       3,256,373     2,033,201|  Oct-O1       Nov-01    Jan-02   Feb-02   Mar-02 r D:c-02
Year 2003          MYT/MHP/017       G            ICB     = l         11 3,295,612     2,150,000     Oct-02     Nov-02   Jan-03   Feb-03 | Mar-03   D:c-03
Year2004           MYT/MHP/016                                   I ICB    _  1  l  I  1,953,824  1,219,921  Oct-03  Nov-03    Jan-04   Feb-04 j Mar-04 jDrc04
of Automatio of Existing Central Heatii Subststious
MYT/MHP/018 |G           ICB           I      1        829,202    |  540,763   |  Oct-01     Nov-OI   Jan-02   Feb-02   Mar-02   D,-
Supplof Individual HeatingSubsbtions
Year2001           MYT/MHP/019   G          ICB r             l           902,600       560,015      Oct-00     Jan-01    AprOI| May-01   May-0       D
JYtar2002        I MYT/MHP/020 [  G         ICB           I I       1     2,707,801     1,680,045    Oct-01     Nov-01   Jan-02 I Feb-02 I Mar-021 Dm-04
SubTotal Goods Supply                                     7      7       14,247,961    8,997,225
- 70 -



Gos: Sup] ily and Installation of Platand Equipment                                                  _____                               ____
Packages Yearn         Contracts     Type of Type oiPQ  No of   No of          Estimated Cost (US$)     Bid          Invitation to Bid    CotatContract  Contact
Contr  Proc.me      Bid      Cont                                 Preparation   Bid date    Opening  Award    Signing   Compi
thod       packs                                         Date                    Date      Date   ~Date       Date
I                    Total~        ~~~~ IBRD   __  _  _     __   ___                _  _
Repiscement of Dilct Heating Pipes  ___                                                                                ___
Year 2001           DUB/MHP/001         G      iCB           5       2        1,921,353      1,453,215      Oct-00     Jan-01I    Apr-01   May-01   May-01   Dec-02
_________   ~~NER/MHP/024                     -.2,272,499                               1,766,200     Oct-00      Jan-01    Apr-01   May-01   May-O I   Dec-01
Year 2002           NER/MHP/025        (G      ICB           5       2        2,272,499      1,766,280     Oct-Di      Nov-01    Jan-02    Feb0    MAar-02   Dec-02
Year 2003           DUB/MHt?/002        0      ICB            1      1        1.921,353      1,453,215      Oct-02     Nov-02    Jan-03    Feb-03 Ma-3         Dc0
Year 2004           KOS/M11P1012        0      ICB           I       1         92,610         69,633       Oct-03      Nov-03    Jan-04    Feb-04 Ma-4         DcO
Installation of Automation oExalg Central Hteating Substain                                 _________________                                                  ___
FYear 2001        [ NER/HP01                    ICB           I n              1,803,289   [1,332,017  1Oct-00   (Jan-OS1I Apr-01 (May-01   May-0    Dec-011
lYear 2002        1NER/M8t/022          G      ICB            1        I       601,096        444,006       Oct-01     Nov-01    Jan-02    Feb-02   Mar-02   Dec-02
Coaverig of CHSssses  no2ppyts               wt  RaIdnrdsi reicnsaf wornust network
Year2003       KOS/"MHPIO7         G      5ICR           1 __    __      4,494,8        3,32,0         Oct-02     Nov-021   Jan-0      Feb-032MrOJe-5
E Year 2002    ~~KOS/MHP/006  I (G    ICB                                1    ,498196M  t1203 80       Oct-01      Nov-02t j Jan-02  IFeb-02    Mar-02  Dec-02
l.sstallation of Indivinal Heating Substa'tionas______
Year 2001           DUBIMHP/003   _0           1CB         ___     2_         1,061,592       799,990       Oct-00      jan-01    Apr-01I   May-01   May-01 IDec-01
Year 2002           DUB/MHOP/004        G      ICBR                           2,477,047      1,866,644      Oct-01   -Nov-01    Jan-02    Feb-02   Mar-02   Dec-03
KCOS/MHPI009                   I95 1,927                                 715,210       Oct-02     Nov-0       Jan-03    Feb-03   Mar-0    Dec-03
Year 2003           NER~/M1iP/023      G3      ICR    Y                       5,765,623      4,277,757  - Oct-02       No-2       Jan-03    Feb-03   Mar-03 jDec-04
FKOSi/(H6j010                                               951,927        715,210       Oct-02     Nv0        Ja-3      Feb-03    Ma-03 Dc0
Instssliation of new boilers or renovatIon of existingBoilers                                                         ____
Year 2001           SZIMHP/028          0      ICB           I       1        1,974,243      1,494,536  - Oct-00        Jan-01     -pr01   May-01   May-01   Dec-02
Year 2002           DUBI'MHP/O05        0      ICE           5       2        1,170,239       886,579       Oct-01     Nov-01    Jan-02    Feb-02   Mar-02   Dec-04-
SYZIMIIP/027                   1306,756                                  231,406       Oct-01     Nov-01    Ja-2       Feb-02   Mar-02   Dc0
Year 2003           SYZJMHPO026         (3     1CB           1   -3           2,305,208      1,774,504      Oct-02      Oct-02     an0      Feb-03   Mar-03   Dc0 
MOYT/MHtP/013                     Y[   2,521,859                         1,931,011     Oct-02      Nov-02    Jan-03    Feb-03   Mar-03   Dc0
JKOS/MHP/00                                           J     701,449        515.595  - Oct-02        Nov-02    Jan-03    Feb-03   Mar-03   Dc0
SubTotal ,                                                   14      22        37,157,964   28,046,640
New Cities Unideuntfed Compoents
LYea202-2005  7NC~/MHP/038-48           G      ICB            0    Ii1        49,629,296     37,309,628     Oct01I      Oct-01    Jan-02    Feb-02   Mar-02   Dec-OS
SubTotal Gooda Supply and Install                            22     33         86,787,260   65,356,267
SmabTotal Goods                                              29     40       101,035,221   74,353,492
Packages Years    1    Contracts     Type o  Tp01Q  Nof             aaf        Etimated Cast (USS)      Bi           tvtto  oBd~Contrat 1Contract
I              Coat,   Doe         Bid       Coa                                 Preparto    Bd dat    OpenTing  IACard    Signing  ICmpl
I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~pick                               iDate       I             Date   ~Date    iDate  ~Dte
Now Cities Unid.nitdCmoet
JYear20,01-2004     NCMI/3-7            W      NCB            3      3         583,018        296,500       Oct-01      Oct-0tI    Jan-02    Feb-02 IMar-02   Dec-O0
SubTotal Works                                               3       3        503,010         296,508
Consultant Services
Packages Years  ContTacesofIType ofPQNof   No af                      Estimated Cost (US$)     Bid         Invitation tolfBipd  JCnrat~ ontrat lContract
Packages Years  Contracts    I Contor   Doe P  IBNid      ConotfPeaainIBddt ~eing  IAward   _Sning  ICorpI
I                 I               I    packa       I   I                              Date        I                    IDate    lDate Dt     ae
Total         IBRO                                                   
Yearul2001  SrieI CIT/M8PIOt29  I S    QCBS                  5               4,320,000       3,600,006     Jan-01   IFcb-01      Ar0    A-1          Jn-1      DcO
Consulting Services / ProetA.P/.3liLC
JYear 2001CTOtPI3                               C             I  112  1        606,000        500,000       Jan-01t    Feb-01  IAp-0t IApr-0l Iun-01 IDec-O5
Consultiug,Services I Financial Audit
Year 200t      ~~~PIU/MHP/031      S   ICBS I       I       I I5         168,000    1140,000   1Jan-01   IFeb-01  IApr-0t IApr-01   Jun-01 IDec-OS
Consultinsg Sos-rices   "Montrn                                               24
lYear 2001           PIU/InHP/032       S   ICBS I        I      I I           240000         200,000      Jan-02   IPeb-02Z    Apr-02 IApr-02I Jun-02I Dec-05
Consulfang Services Iinstitutional Development
Year 2001           PIU/MHP/033  I S   ICBS I                1       51      3.000,000    12,500,000  1Jan-02   IFeb-02  IApr-02 IAp-02 IJun-02 IDec-OS
SubTotal                                                     5      86       8,328,000      6,940,000
*) See Loan Agreement Schedule 5 for description of monitoring.
ITrsod  generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Docum.entation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 71 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Works                                     0.30                  75% of expenditures
Goods, including local transportation    67.55          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
and related insurance                                  local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and
80% of other local expenditures
Consultants Services:
(a) for Part A of the Project             4.10                        100%
(b) for Part B of the Project             2.50                        100%
Incremental Operating Costs               2.90                        100%
Unallocated                               6.80
Total Project Costs                      84.15
Interest during construction      0.00                         0 %
Front-end fee        0.85                        100 %
Total                                    85.00
Financing percentage for Consultant Services and Incremental Operating Costs is pending a Bank decision
on financing rules relating to income taxes for these categories.
Table D: Bank Loan Disbursement Schedule (US$ Million)
Calendar Year   Year Tota      Quarter      By Quarter    Cumulative    Percentage
2001                          I            0.00          0.00           0%
II           0.85          0.85          1.0%
III          2.50          3.35          3.9%
8.65           IV           5.29           8.65         10.2%
2002                          I            1.11          9.76          11.5%
II           3.81          13.56         16.0%
III          6.29          19.85         23.4%
17.52          IV            6.32         26.17         30.8%
2003                          I            2.37          28.54         33.6%
II           5.17          33.71         39.7%
III          7.36          41.07         48.3%
22.37          IV            7.46          48.54         57.1%
2004                          I            3.38          51.91         61.1%
II           5.38          57.29         67.4%
III          6.50          63.80         75.1%
21.87          IV            6.60          70.40         82.8%
2005                          I            2.38          72.78         85.6%
II           3.62          76.41         89.9%
III          4.25          80.65         94.9%
14.60          IV            4.35          85.00        100.0%
- 72 -



Special account:
The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a financial institution acceptable to the
Bank. The financial institution selected for the purpose should be capable of providing efficient payment
and clearing facilities both locally and internationally. The SA will be maintained by the CPIU. The
authorized allocation for this account will be US$ 4.0 million. However, the deposit would be limited to
US$ 2.0 million initially, until the aggregate disbursements have reached US$ 7.0 million. In addition,
Local Sub-project Accounts, one for each participating city, will be established for depositing the city's
contribution towards the financing of its sub-project. The Local Sub-project Accounts would be kept either
in the local branch of the financial institution that holds the SA, or in an acceptable local bank. It may be
necessary to make payments in local or other currencies using the proceeds from the SA. Balances will be
converted only as payments are made in those currencies. All bank accounts and advances are required to
be reconciled and replenished at regular intervals but at least on a monthly basis. The minimum application
size for payments directly from the loan account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20% of the
special account authorized allocation. Minimum application size until aggregate disbursements reach
US$7.0 million would be US$200,000; thereafter, it will be US$400,000.
Documentation: Disbursements from the Bank loan proceeds for the following types of contracts will
require full documentation: (i) civil works contracts valued at US$ 100,000 or more; goods contracts
valued at US$ 100,000 or more; (iii) consulting contracts with firms valued at US$ 100,000 or more; and
(iv) consulting contracts with individuals valued at US$ 50,000 or more. The Bank may require all other
disbursements to be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Related documentation in support of
SOE will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the implementing unit for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and the Bank supervision missions. If
ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in excess of
agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the SA, the Bank will have the right to withhold further
deposits into the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts
involved, or (b) submitted evidence (to the Bank's satisfaction) of other eligible expenditures that the Bank
can use to offset the ineligible amounts. The project will be required to maintain all books and records for
post-review by the Bank's supervision missions and for the auditors.
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             03/17/97                     03/17/97
Appraisal mission departure                     06/30/2000                   06/30/2000
Negotiations                                    11/15/2000                   12/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/31/2001                   05/01/2000
Prepared by:
ECSEG
Preparation assistance:
ECSSD, INFEG
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Bjom Hamso                        Team Leader
Gary Stuggins                     Former Team Leader
Margaret A.Wilson                 Financial/Economics
Pekka Kouri                       Technical
Arto Nuorkivi                     Technical
Anke Meyer                        Economics
Raili Kajaste                     Environment
Karl Skansing                     Procurement
Clifford Isaak                    Financial Management
Lydia Petrashova                  Financial Management
Angela Gary Walker                Financials
Consultants:
Margaret A. Wilson                 Financial/Economics (1999/2000 as Consultant)
Eugen Finkel                       Social Assessments
Alexander Lega                     Technical
Yevgeny Guterman                   Technical
Wim Vijfvinkel                     Demand Side Management
Gerry van der Meijden              Environment
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Plan as of December 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Analyses*
Economic Analyses*
Handbook for Asbestos Removal (paper copy)
Back-to-Office Reports
C. Other
Feasibility Studies of Dubna, Kostroma, Mytishi, Nerungri and Syzran*
Prospectives for Demand Side Measures in Russian District heating Systems*
Least Cost Analysis of Dubna, Nerungri and Russia in general*
Dubna - Volga River West-bank Districts Least Cost Analysis of Heating
Dubna - Least Cost Analysis - Finnish area
Least Cost Analysis of the District Heating Network of the City of Lytkarino
Least Cost Analysis for the District Heating System of Nerungri
Least Cost Analysis for the District Heating System of Kostroma
Least Cost Analysis for the District Heating System of Syzran
Least Cost Analysis of Heating Options (Draft)
Least Cost Heating Systems in Areas with Low Heat Density
Demand Side Energy Components and Environmental Aspects
Environment Assessment Report, including Environmental Management Plan, covering, Dubna, Mytishi,
Kostroma, Nerungri, Syzran
Comparative analysis of creditworthiness of cities for the IBRD Municipal Heating project
Decree of the Russian Federation President on Reform of the Housing and Communal Economy in the
Russian Federation
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
Feb-2001
Difference betNeen expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'c
P008832       2001 MUN WATER & WW                                    122.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00     122.50      0.00       0.00
P053830       2000 SUST FORESTRY PILOT                                60.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      60.00      0.00       0.00
P058587       2000 REG FISC TA                                        30.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      29.20      2.30       0.00
P050487       1999 STATE STATS SYST                                   30.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     29.20       4.54      -0.16
P046496        1998 SOC PROT IMPL                                     28.60      0.00                  0.00       0.00      17.57      14.89      0.00
P050486        1998 COAL SECAL 11                                    800.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     150.00     150.00    150.00
P008825        1997 EDUC INNOV                                        71.00      0.00                  0.00       3.00      59.63     15.24       0.00
P042720        1997 ST PETERSBURG REHAB                               31.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      10.35     10.35       0.00
P044200       1997 BUREAU OF ECON POL                                 22.60      0.00                  0.00       0.00       7.66      1.25       0.00
P050891       1997 ELEC SECTR REF                                     40.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      40.00     40.00      14.00
P008814       1997 HEALTH REFORM PILOT                                66.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     50.95      32.62       0.00
P035761       1996 COMMUNITY SOC INF                                 200.00      0.00                  0.00      43.50     110.89    102.23      15.23
P045622       1996 COAL IAP                                           25.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      10.13     10.13       6.88
P035764       1996 BRIDGE REHAB                                      350.00      0.00                  0.00     158.00     75.82     222.16       1.87
P036973        1996 ENT HOUSING DIVST                                300.00      0.00                  0.00      43.61     222.08     149.69     -0.02
P042622       1996 CAP MRKT DEV                                       89.00      0.00                  0.00      33.75     38.74      67.09       1.22
P008801       1996 BIODIV CONSV (GEF)                                  0.00      0.00                 20.10       0.00       7.69      8.27      -3.16
P008800       1996 ODS CONSP PHASEOUT (GEF)                            0.00      0.00                 60.00       0.00     39.00      37.19      -0.05
P038571       1996 MED EQUIP                                         270.00      0.00                  0.00      37.70     26.92      64.63       0.25
P008831       1996 LEGAL REFORM                                       58.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      34.95     34.95      -0.56
P008837       1996 STANDARDS DEV                                      24.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      5.84       5.84       5.84
P008803        1995 EGY EFF                                          106.50      0.00                  3.20       0.00      52.94      89.44     5624
P008806       1995 URBAN TRANSPORT                                   329.00      0.00                  0.00      55.00     27.35      82.36       0.00
P040409       1995 EMG OIL SPILL MITIGATION                           99.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      13.70      13.70      1.06
P008821       1995 ENV MGMT                                          110.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      58.33     47.98       0.00
P008823       1995 PORTFOLIO DEVT                                     40.00       0.00                 0.00       1.81      16.54      18.35     11.32
P008827        1995 HOUSING                                          400.00       0.00                 0.00      30.00     203.25    233.25       0.00
P034579       1994 LAND REF IMPL SUPPORT                              80.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      50.77     50.77       0.76
P008839       1994 ENTERPRISESUPPORT                                 200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     160.10     160.10      0.76
P008828        1994 FIN INSTS                                        200.00      0.00                  0.00      59.50      66.49     125.99     -1.86
P008811       1994 AGRIC REF IMPL                                    240.00      0.00                  0.00     118.20       6.07     124.27      2.41
Total:    4422.20        0.00               83.30      584.08     1804.67    1919.59    262.03
- 76 -



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995              A.O.Volga                    24.81   11.00    0.00   32.55   24.81   11.00    0.00   32.55
1996/98           Alpha Cement                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99           Aminex                        0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
1999              Bitech-Silur                 17.50    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Borsteklo                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Campina                       7.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.98    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              DCC                           0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1995              Depsona Z.A.O.                0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998              DreVo                         0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00
1995              First NIS Fund                0.00    6.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.83    0.00    0.00
1994              Framlington Fund              0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Ikea MOS                      15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Mosenergo                    20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              OMGC                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Pan American                  0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Pioneer First                 0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Polar Lights                  4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              RTDC                          0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Rarnstore                    30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Russ Leasing Co               0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1995              Russ Tech Fnd                 0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Russia Registry               0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995              SCF                           0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00
1998              Toribank                      0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00
1996              UNEXIM Bank                   5.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              ZAO Pakenso                   6.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    6.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      142.06   92.77    0.00   32.55  115.76   92.76    0.00   32.55
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001              Ramstore II                  30000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              Russ Leasing Co              3000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              SCF - RI                         0.00    273.10     0.00     0.00
2001              Bema Gold                        0.00     0.00   1000.00     0.00
1998              Depository Clear               500.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              Dukat Silver                     0.00     0.00   4900.00     0.00
1998              Elcoteq                         0.00      0.00    100.00     0.00
2000              Pan American                     0.00     0.00   3500.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   33500.00    273.10   9500.00     0.00
- 77 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
0    0  f 0   ; 0  0 l02Eul*o *ie &    Lo qver
POVERTY so  SOC:iAL                              Rusels,    Cenra   mtdl..,
er9D1o       ;    0:   t 0 00A*b  lncom  Development dlamond'
Pootietlon,; mId-year (miNions)                       148.0000 0000009 ;0050CX fl0$Si20 0 047500   2.09tOlgi44400  Life expectancy
GNP oar ckaolt (Ages m  dSS) I*                       2.250      ,160      1I
GNP opftme.sm th  USS b5lUAlo                         3290    :1022$ t322513 f                         .
Avers" annalW awth, 103-09 
POOUi.onI% M0.3                                                    0.1       1.1     GN
Labor:forot 6                                           0;0        0.6       t.2     GNP                               Gross
per                        -         primary
lost recefit  tlma te0, 019934SI 0 0 0 00 (latest yea a   1003-01)                   capita                        enrollment
Povry %      oM ffIn oweln eJ Dotifyft) f ;X 3 0                     .0 AE V09, f?X
urban poculeon     Efoe p        oat)-                   73        07        43
Life esetnyat btldh y..};)                              80        89        89
Infant nsorfsllty (per 1,OOOlh bIrths)   ~16         22        33
0            g      ;    ;     r mi  miJon 0'% 0fdren under0 ;  ; 3  ;         t15              Access to safe water
96sf~~~~~~~~~~~X y(%ot   4ta*o age0 15+   t00    1 0        3 0;   01680 00
GrosSplment  t%ohooi: opuietlo?n                     10QU:t90$03  C001i00    11t4         -Russian Federation
EMS*f:X00: 00; 00 tt 00   t            :::   04: 0 $0001":;109  10        114               Lower-mtddle-income group
Fertile                                               108         0        1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIoS and LONG-ERMT REgDS:
GOP 0 i i     1  ion               J9113       2771      1$       8;; 84-A  Economic ratios'
Grass dotic nventnDIP                          ..    33.8       1I.7       15.5                     Trade
Exports of 9ood n; o     dse s                   . 4   21.9 11A   31.4      45.7
Gross natIonal set*losiGDP     .,        ..      10.0~~~It  26.7
Inuterest pavmenftslGnOP                        .         , $ib Xt90000: 0  0 0  V 0  t.  I0-3 A   0 0 18.2V; Domestics c
TIthlelestDP            0 0    :0 it \000 ;S0Quf:t0..00 Q00Vt  0w, ..  87.0014 0 00 tf tiS t;00i;f000 Savings A  1.   Investment
Total deb, se,c .t0  0,                                                     1 t      Savings
Presentvaueoelexgotls 00 ;00t0000t000 ..00000 0..                    187.0  00000* t0
illi0    1 0000 0000 00 0 l00$99 9itios t$  1101111,  191111111  Indebtedness
GOP                                  2.8      4.2      -4.9       .2     43                    Russian Federation
GNPO ercapitot                         .i     4.0       -.6        0. 7      4.8               Lower-middle-incomne group
ExD"r of 4o0ds and servlces           ..    t1         .2.3     :  .0        2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           10
Aariculture                                     ..    16.8         5.4       6.6
Industry                                        ..    50.2        36.4      37.7      o      s
Manufacturing                                                     .. ..   .10:                                    '
Services                                        ..    33.0        58.2      55.7    .20
Private consumption                             ..    45.1        65.8      54.5    -30
General government consumption                  ..    20.1        13.8      12.6                 GD           OGDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    21.0        26.6      28.3
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..    -7.0       -13.2       2.4    20
Industrv                                        ..    -9.5        -5.2       8.1
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..         ..  
Services                                        ..    -2.3        -2.5      -0.1                        9 96   97    9    99
Private consumption                             ..      1.4       -2.6       5      -20
General government consumption                  ..    -0.7         0.1       4.3
Gross domestic investment                       ..   -20.5       -26.0       5.6    4            Cxports   -:*Imports
Imports of goods and services                   ..    -3.9       -14.8     -29.9
Gross national product                          ..    -6.8        -6.8       0.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 78 -



Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                       1.000
(X change)
Consumer prices                                                    27.7      85.7      750
Implicit GDP deflator                                              14.4      63.3      soo
Government finance                                                                     20
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                      0E
Current revenue                                                    30.2      33,5               94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                                              -2.8      1.6           -GDP deflator            CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                             -8.3     -3.6
TRADE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                              74,888    75,306     100,00o
Crude oil                                                       10.276    14,089
Natural aas                                                    13,502    11.352       75,000
Manufactures                                                    9.000     8.609
Total imports (cif)                                              60,438    41,261            *      _         _         _
Food                                                           10,800     8,137      2s,000
Fuel and energV                                                 1,654       451
Capital goods                                                  15,856    10,167          0
93  94  95  98  97  Os  99
Export once index (1995=100)                     ..       ..         83        83
ImDort Price index (1995=100)                                        87        88                * Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..        .         95        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                    87,259    84,346     12
Imoorts of goods and services                                    74,013    52.288
Resource balance                                                 13.246    32.058      a
Net income                                                      -11,900   -11,900
Net current transfers                                              -409       534      X                          E
Current account balance                                             937    20,692
Financing items (net)                                           -11,701   -16,865               W     M A
Changes in net reserves                                          10,764    -3,827          93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Memo:
Reserves includina gold (US$ millions)           .,        ..    12,223    12.456
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                      ..        ..       9.7      24.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            186,114   176.898
IBRD                                                            6,424     6.809
IDA                                             .        ..         0         0               G:0,50865    es6ee C  5,3
Total debt service paid                                           9,100     9,834                                      D: 57
IBRD                                                              383       520
IDA                                             .        ..         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                    85                                     a    _
Official creditors                                                822      -707                           _68,696
Private creditors                                               9,657      -200
Foreign direct investment                                       2,764       746
Portfolio equity                                                  296       368
World Bank program
Commitments                                     .        ..     1,500       430      A -IBRD                      E - ilateral
Commisbuments                                                   1,22800       8      B -IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                                  .         ..     1,228       538      C- IFG-Sottr
Principal repayments                                               66       150      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       1,162       388
Interest pavments                                                 317       370
Net transfers                                                     845        18
Development Economics and Country Team.                                                                                   8/31/00
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 11
Financial Management Assessment
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
1. Oversight and Accountability Arrangements
The National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) is an autonomous, non-commercial
organization founded by OAO Institute of Housing and Communal Utilities Sector, ZAO Research and
Development Center " ZHilish'e", and ZAO Center for Assistance to Housing Reform. In accordance
with its Charter, NFHR's primary objectives are to develop the organizational infrastructure for
enabling housing reform in the Russian Federation and its territories; to promote reforms in the
housing and communal complex; and to promote sustainable development of populated areas in the
Russian Federation. The NFHR is the implementing agency for the Housing Project financed by the
Bank, and for two Japan PHRD grants applied to the preparation of the Bank-supported Municipal
Water and Wastewater and District Heating Projects. It is proposed that the NFHR will act as the
implementation agent on behalf of the Russian Federation for the Municipal Heating Project as well.
NFHR's Council is its supreme governing body. The Council shall ensure that NFHR comply with the
aims and objectives for which NFHR was established. Members of the Council are representatives of
Gosstroi, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Justice, and Federal Centre for
Project Finance. The Council is chaired by the Chairman of Gosstroi.
The Council's main responsibilities are the following:
*  Amending the Charter of the Foundation
e  Decisions on NFHR's reorganization and declaration of its liquidation, if required
* Approving NFHR's annual budget, including sources of financing
*  Approving selection and appointment of the auditors
*  Appointing and dismissing the NFHR Director.
A NFHR Board of Trustees has been established as required by Laws of the Russian Federation on
Establishment of Non-profit Foundations. The NFHR Board of Trustees plays a nominal role and
assumes only observing functions.
Science and Technology Councils (STCs) have been set up within the NFHR framework for individual
projects. The STCs are established for the purpose of defining the scientific and technological strategy
to be followed in preparation and implementation of projects assigned to NFHR, carried out by the
Government of the Russian Federation, state and municipal bodies, and international and other
organizations. The STC rules and procedures are defined by the NFHR Council.
The Director of the NFHR has overall responsibility for the day-to-day administration and supervision
of NFHR's activities. The Director is accountable for his/her work to the Council and the Supervisory
Board.
- 80 -



2. Regulations and Procedures
NFHR's activities are regulated by national laws and regulations. For implementation of the Housing
Project, Guidelines for Disbursement, Accounting and Auditing have been adopted. These guidelines
were developed for the use of the CPIU and the General Consultant for the Housing Project. For the
proposed Municipal Heating Project, an Operational Manual was prepared by NFHR.
3. Accounting Systems and Reporting Requirements
Under the prior financial management arrangements, the entity (NFHR) accounting and reporting was
handled by the Accounting Department, and project accounting and disbursement were handled by the
General Consultant. In accordance with the Bank's requirements for new projects, project accounting,
entity accounting and disbursement should be integrated into one financial management system.
Furthermore, NFHR should have the internal capacity to maintain accounting and financial reporting
systems adequate for providing the Bank with accurate and timely information regarding projects
resources, expenditures and the financial position of the NFHR.
A restructuring of the financial department of NFHR was discussed with the Bank. The Chief
Accountant submitted to the Bank a revised draft Accounting and Disbursement Manual which defines
new financial arrangements.
The NFHR financial department will prepare the following project financial reports for quarterly
submission to the Bank:
*  Project sources and uses of funds;
*   Uses of funds by project activity;
-   Project balance sheet;
-  Project cash withdrawals;
*   Special Account statement;
*   SOE withdrawal schedule.
*  Notes to project financial statements.
It was agreed that accounting software Platinum would be modified to generate these reports
automatically from accounting journals and ledgers. At present, there is a lack of interface between the
project and entity financial statements. This also can be addressed by integration of the two systems to
strengthen the internal control system and eliminate the duplication of duties. Methodology for
integration of Russian accounting, project accounting, and IAS accounting will be developed by
qualified consultants, and the software upgraded to include three separate Charts of Accounts with
appropriate links. The precise details and extent of the integration will be reviewed as part of the
proposed consultancy contract to be signed between NFHR and consultants to be engaged by it to
provide the necessary technical assistance. The following entity financial statements will be prepared in
accordance with IAS and submitted for auditor's review annually and to the Bank:
*  NFHR Balance Sheet;
* NFHR Income Statements;
* NFHR Cash Flow Statement;
*  Notes to financial statements
- 81 -



4. Internal Control Procedures
The main internal control procedures are defined in applicable Russian legislation. Guidelines on
Disbursement, Accounting and Auditing adopted by NFHR for the Housing Project have been revised
to reflect new procedures of internal control of NFHR after restructuring. The Operational Manual for
the Municipal Heating Project specifically addresses the procedures to be used by NHFR and the
Participating Cities for the implementation of the project.
5. Budgeting and Planning
For timely project monitoring and control, NFHR's financial management system should provide for
proper budgeting and planning functions. NFHR's annual budget is prepared by its management for
approval by the Council. This budget includes all operating expenditures financed from all NFHR
sources of financing (at present one loan and two grants). Annual project budgets should be approved
by the Council and the Bank. Quarterly budgets can be approved by the Board of Directors of NFHR.
It is proposed that the Municipal Heating Project will finance the incremental operating costs of the
NFHR for implementing the project. The costs of general departments of NFHR will be shared between
projects under implementation in proportions agreed with the Bank on an annual basis. Incremental
costs for the project are estimated at US$2.9 million. This amount should be properly budgeted
through all the years of project implementation and reflected as a part of the overall NFHR budget.
6. Audit Arrangements:
In accordance with the Loan Agreement for the Housing Project, annual audited project financial
statements were submitted to the Bank without delays during the four years of the project's
implementation. Auditors have not to date raised any accountability issues regarding NFHR's
operations.
Starting from the 1 "99 financial year, the auditor's opinion was expressed on NFHR financial
statements prepard in accordance with IAS, as required by the Bank. NFHR's financial statements
should reflect all its operational expenditures, allocated to the projects in accordance with the budget
approved by the Bank. For the 1999 reporting period, NFHR did not have the internal capacity to
restate the financial statements (balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement) prepared
under Russian regulations into IAS-compliant reports, so this task was performed by the General
Consultant. As soon as the integration of NFHR's financial management system is finalized, entity
financial statements prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) should be
an automatic output of the accounting software program. The Chief Accountant should be responsible
for preparation/restatement of the entity financial statements into IAS.
Project financial statements are to be audited annually by independent private auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The audit is to be performed in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA).
Project financial statements should include all financing and expenditures from Loan proceeds as well
as Borrower co-financing. NFHR will assume the function of consolidating financial statements
provided by the participating cities. The auditor will be visiting the participating cities during the
annual project audit. The terms of reference of the audit of the project were agreed with the Bank prior
to Board presentation.
- 82 -



7. Agreed Action Plan for Strengthening Financial Management Capacity of NFHR and
the Participating Cities
By the time of Board presentation, the following agreed action plan on strengthening
financial management capacity of the project had been successfully implemented by the
Borrower. The Bank's financial management specialist certified the project as meeting
minimum financial management requirements of the Bank. A 4-B LACI certificate was
issued, as no PMR-based disbursements are envisaged for the project.
Project Management Reporting (PMR) formats to be agreed  Board         NFHR and the Bank
with the Bank                                          Presentation
Completed
NFHR and the participating cities to agree on subproject  Board         NFHR and the
accounting and reporting formats required by the CPIU for  Presentation  participating cities
submission of PMRs to the Bank                         Completed
NFHR and the Participating Cities to agree on modes and  Board          NFHR and the
formats for maintaining Fixed Asset Registers and supporting   Presentation  participating cities
evidential documents                                   Completed
Accounting Procedures and Disbursement Manual of the   Board            NFHR
Foundation to be revised to reflect the new structure of NFHR   Presentation
Completed
NFHR to prepare a plan for training of participating cities'  Board     NFHR
staff in project financial management                  Presentation
Completed
NFHR's Council to approve an Operational Manual,        Board           NFHR
satisfactory to the Bank                               Presentation
Completed
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 12
Social Assessment
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Heating Project
Social assessments were carried out in the cities of Mytishi and Lytkarino (Moscow oblast) as well the
cities of Nerungri (Eastern Siberia) and Syzran (at the Volga River) to obtain feedback from households on
a series of issues related to the provision of heat and hot water. First, the assessments are based on
qualitative research using structured in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with residential
district heat customers as well as consultations with staff from district heating companies, City
representatives, housing maintenance organizations, municipal social assistance offices and civil society
stakeholders. Second, the assessments are based on quantitative research by means of questionnaire-based
household surveys administered in Mytishi, Nerungri, and Syzran to 500 randomly selected residential
district heating and hot water customers (in each city), and in Lytkarino to 150 heat and hot water
customers.
The issues addressed in detail in the assessments are: (i) quality and reliability of the provision of heat and
hot water, (ii) level of satisfaction and hardships due to insufficient provision of heat and hot water, (iii)
patterns of supplementary heating and other coping strategies, (iv) physical conditions of heat and hot
water installations, (v) metering and conservation of heat and hot water, (vi) household budgets and
expenditures for heat and hot water by different income groups, (vii) collections, cost recovery, and
indebtedness, (viii) poverty of residential customers based on detailed data regarding household incomes
and expenditures, (ix) affordability, willingness to pay, and (x) effectiveness of the social assistance in
place. Key findings of the social assessment are summarized below.
1. District Heating
Roonm temperature. Average room temperature in winter reported by households in Mytishi amounts to
19.1 degrees Celsius, in Lytkarino to 18.3, in Nerungri to 19.9, and in Syzran to 20.52 degrees Celsius. In
Mytishi, households consider 21.7 degrees as ideal room temperature, in Lytkarino 20.0, in Nerungri 22.1
and in Syzran they consider 22.8 degrees as ideal room temperature, on average.
Too cold. In each of the four cities, households complained that in winter it was too cold in their
apartments. Complaints were strong in Lytkarino and Mytishi, relatively moderate in Nerungri and Syzran.
In Lytkarino, respondents complained that in winter it was too cold in their apartment always (24%), often
(24%), or sometimes (31%). In Mytishi, households complained that in winter it was too cold in their
apartment always (15%), often (20%), or sometimes (27%). By contrast, in Nerungri only 22% of the
households complained that it was too cold, in Syzran, not more than 14% of the households.
Too hot. Few households in Mytishi, Lytkarino, and Syzran complained that in winter it was too hot in
their apartments. In Lytkarino, respondents complained that in winter it was too hot in their apartment
always (0%), often (1%), or sometimes (7%). In Mytishi, households complained that it was too hot in their
apartment always (1%), often (4%), or sometimes (10%). In Nerungri about 15% of the respondents
complained that it was too hot for periods of time ranging from one week to three months, in Syzran, 4% of
the respondents complained that it was too hot.
- 84 -



Heating interruptions.  In Lytkarino and Mytishi, reported heating interruptions are significant, in
Nerungri and Syzran interruptions seem to be moderate. In Lytkarino, 31% of the respondents reported l or
2 interruptions, 14% of the respondents reported 3 or more interruptions. In Mytishi, 23% of the
respondents reported 1 or 2 interruptions and also 23% of the respondents reported 3 or more interruptions.
In Nerungri, 9% of the households and in Syzran 6% of the respondent reported service interruptions,
mostly once or twice per heating season.
Supplementary heating. There is significant supplementary heating in Mytishi and Lytkarino. In these two
cities, more than 40% of the households use electric heaters for supplementary heating. A considerable
number of households in these two cities use network gas fired cooking ranges for supplementary space
heating, however to a larger extent in Lytkarino (45%) than in Mytishi (28%). In Nerungri, only a small
percentage of households (7%) use electric heaters for supplementary heating. Other forms of heating are
not practiced. In Syzran, 6% of the households use electric heaters and 5% use network gas fired cooking
ranges for supplementary heating. Other forms of heating are not significant.
Opening windows. Many households in Mytishi (55%), Nerungri (43%), Lytkarino (41%), and Syzran
(39%) open their windows during the heating season at least once per day. Primarily, they open the
windows to get fresh air. On the other hand, many households in Mytishi (366%), Nerungri (411%),
Lytkarino (47%), and Syzran (46%) never open their windows during the heating season. When they
intermittently open their windows, households keep the windows open for about 25 minutes, on average, in
all four cities.
Metering and regulating heat. In none of the four cities surveyed, is heat metered at the apartment levels.
Also, at the building levels heat is practically not metered in Mytishi, Lytkarino, and Nerungri. Only in
Syzran about 3% of the households have building level meters. A large majority of households in Mytishi
(78%) and Lytkarino (82%), Syzran (53%), and Nerungri (59%) would like to be able to regulate and have
metered heat in their flats. Many of these households believe that paying for heat regulated and metered at
the apartment level would lead to a reduction of their heat bills. Only a small percentage of households
believe that heating bills would increase. However, considerably less households in Mytishi (19%),
Lytkarino (23%), Syzran (34%) and Nerungri (37%) would like to have a heat meter at the level of their
building and pay for heat metered at the building level. A considerable nunber of households believe that
their heating bills would increase as a result of installing heat meters in the buildings and pay for heat
metered at the building level.
Insulation, conservation of heat. More than 80% of households in Mytishi and Lytkarino do weather
stripping of windows routinely. In Nerungri, 64% of households and in Syzran 34% of households carry
out draught proofing of windows, doors and joints between wall elements at home on a regular basis. Many
households in Lytkarino (55.3%) and Mytishi (45.8%) would like to replace windows in order to make their
flats better insulated. In Nerungri, most households see a need for repairing or replacing windows and
external doors in their buildings (53%). Significant numbers of households also see a need for repairing
engineering networks of common use (388%), leaking roofs (30%), for repairing or replacing windows and
external doors in their apartments (28%), and for draught proofing in general (17%). In Syzran, most
households see a need for repairing or replacing windows and external doors in their buildings (355%) and in
their apartments (29%). A significant number of households in Syzran also sees a need for repairing or
replacing radiators in their flats (27%), for repairing engineering networks of common use (23%) and
leaking roofs (18%).
- 85 -



Willingness to pay. Clear majorities of respondents in the four cities surveyed would not be willing to pay
more for district heating, even if the quality of service would improve (no interruptions, always ideal room
temperature, etc.). In Mytishi and Lytkarino, around 45% of the households would be willing to pay
between 16 and 18 percent more than what they are paying at present. In Syzran, about 11% of the
households would be willing to pay on average 65% more than the amount they are paying at present. In
Nerungri, about 5% of the households would be willing to pay 10% more than what they are paying at
present. The four cities should embark on an information campaign, explaining that price increases and full
cost recovery are necessary in order to maintain and improve the quality of heat supply.
2. Hot Water
Access. In Mytishi, 88.2 percent of residential district heating customers have access to hot water provided
in connection with district heating, in Syzran, 69% and in Lytkarino 47%. In Nerungri all district heating
customers have hot water in connection with district heating.
Availability. In all four cities, a large majority of households report either that water comes out hot
immediately when opening the hot water tap, or that it takes not more than a minute until water turns hot.
Too cold. There were numerous and moderately intense complaints in Nerungri that water was too cold,
less numerous and intense complaints in Lytkarino and Mytishi, and moderately numerous and moderately
intense complaints in Syzran. In Nerungri, water was too cold "always" according to 2% of households,
"often" according to 22%, and "sometimes" according to 29% of households. In Mytishi, water was too
cold "always" according to 4% of households, "often" according to 16%, and "sometimes" according to
26% of households. In Lytkarino, water was too cold "always" according to 4% of households, "often"
according to 21%, and "sometimes" according to 19% of households. In Syzran, water was too cold
"always" according to 1% of households, "often" according to 6%, and "sometimes" according to 19% of
households.
Too hot. Complaints that water was too hot were numerous and intense in Nerungri, numerous but little
intense in Lytkarino and Mytishi, and little numerous and scarcely intense in Syzran. In Nerungri, water
was too hot "always" according to 11% of households, "often" according to 15%, and "sometimes"
according to 19% of households. In Mytishi, water was too hot "always" according to 6% of households, "
often" according to 9%, and "sometimes" according to 20% of households. In Lytkarino, water was too hot
"always" according to 4% of households, "often" according to 9%, and "sometimes" according to 24% of
households. In Syzran, water was too hot "always" according to 5% of households, "often" according to
3%, and "sometimes" according to 15% of households.
Dirty. Complaints that hot water was dirty, contained rust or other particles were very numerous and
intense in Lytkarino, less numerous and intense in Nerungri and Mytishi, and moderately numerous and
intense in Syzran. In Lytkarino, hot water was dirty, contained rust or other particles "always" according to
37% of households, "often" according to 24%, and "sometimes" according to 28% of households. In
Nerungri, hot water was dirty, contained rust or other particles "always" according to 6% of households, "
often" according to 22%, and "sometimes" according to 35% of households. In Mytishi, hot water was
dirty, contained rust or other particles "always" according to 8% of households, "often" according to 29%,
and "sometimes" according to 19% of households. In Syzran, hot water was dirty, contained rust or other
particles "always" according to 3% of households, "often" according to 15%, and "sometimes" according
to 19% of households.
Interruptions. For non-scheduled works, respondents reported, on average, 14 interruptions in Mytishi, 13
- 86 -



interruptions in Lytkarino, 6 interruptions in Nerungri, and 8 interruptions in Syzran. The interruptions
lasted on average 24 days in Mytishi, 26 days in Lytkarino, 8 days in Nerungri, and 6 days in Syzran. For
scheduled works (normally in summer), households reported mostly 1 or 2 interruptions in Mytishi and
Lytcarino, lasting 24 days in Mytishi, 26 days in Lytkarino, 17 days in Nerungri and 23 days in Syzran.
Mostly, hot water cuts due to scheduled works are previously announced according to households
interviewed.
Metering and paying for metered consumption. In Mytishi, Lytkarino, Syzran and Nerungri, households
do not have hot water meters in their apartments. In Nerungri, a majority of households (60%) is interested
in installing hot water meters in their flats and paying for metered hot water consumption, in Lytkarino
46%, in Mytishi 43%, and in Syzran 30%/o of households. In Nerungri, not surprisingly, 54% of residential
customers would reduce hot water consumption in order to lower hot water bills if they had consumption
metered at the apartment level. In Syzran, 35% of residential customers would reduce hot water
consumption, in Mytishi 29%, and in Lytkarino only 12%.
Willingness to pay more. 38% of the respondents in Mytishi and, surprisingly, 57% of the respondents in
Lytkarino, are willing to pay more if the quality of the hot water service would be very much improved.
However, the amounts they would be willing to pay more are very small. In Nerungri, 13% of the
respondents would be willing to pay 30% more than what they are currently paying if the quality of hot
water service would be very much improved, in Syzran 5% of the households would be willing to pay 88%
more than what they are currently paying. The cities should embark on an information campaign,
explaining that full cost recovery is unavoidable in order to maintain and improve the quality of hot water
supply.
Households lacking hot water services. Households in Mytishi and Lytkarino that don't have hot water
services in connection with district heating, heat water with (network) gas-fired water boilers. In Syzran,
households that don't have hot water in connection with district heating, heat water with network gas-fired
cooking ranges (20%), network gas-fired water boilers (I 6%), and LPG-fired cooking ranges.
3. Household Budgets
Expenditures for district heating and hot water, shares of total household expenditures, shares of total
utility expenditures. Household expenditures for district heating and hot water are highest in Nenngri and
second highest in Syzran. Charges for district heating and hot water are relatively low in Mytishi and
Lytkarino.
Nerungri. Due to the extremely cold climate in Siberia, household expenditures for district heating in
Nerungri are very high as compared to charges for district heating in Syzran, Mytishi, and Lytkarino.
District heating charges in Nerungri amount to 324 Rubles, on average, 4.4%  of total household
expenditures, and 34% of total utility expenditures. Also, hot water expenditures are somewhat higher in
Nerungri as compared to charges for hot water in Syzran, Mytishi, and Lytkarino. Hot water charges in
Nerungri amount to 91 Rubles, on average, 1.2% of total household expenditures, and 10% of total utility
expenditures.
Syzran. Household expenditures for district heating in Syzran amnount to 55 Rubles, on average, 1.47% of
total household expenditures, and 27% of total utility expenditures. Hot water charges amnount to 22
Rubles, on average, 0.59% of total household expenditures, and 11% of total utility expenditures.
Mytishi. Household expenditures for district heating in Mytishi arnount to 46 Rubles, on average, 1% of
- 87 -



total household expenditures, and 22% of total utility expenditures. Hot water charges amount to 22
Rubles, on average, 0.54% of total household expenditures, and 17% of total utility expenditures.
Lytkarino. Household expenditures for district heating in Lytkarino amount to 38 Rubles, on average, 1%
of total household expenditures, and 22% of total utility expenditures. Hot water charges amount to 32
Rubles, on average, 0.82% of total household expenditures, and 11% of total utility expenditures.
Charges for district heating and hot water as shares of total household expenditures by per capita
expenditure quintiles. Households in lower expenditure quintiles spend larger shares of their total
expenditures for district heating and hot water than households in higher quintiles. In Mytishi, Lytkarino,
Nerungri and Syzran, households in the bottom quintile spend for district heating between 2 and 5 times the
share of expenditures that households in the top quintile spend. For hot water, bottom quintile households in
these four cities spend between 3 and 7 times the share of expenditures that the top quintile households
spend.
Total utility expenditures as a share of total household expenditures. Expenditures for utilities (heating,
hot water, electricity, water and sewerage, gas, garbage, housing, telephone, cable TV) as a share of total
household expenditures amount to 13% in Nerungri, 5.2% in Syzran, 4.6% in Mytishi, and 4.7% in
Lytkarino, on average.
Food expenditures as a share of total household expenditures. Food expenditures as a share of Total
Household Expenditures amount to 50%, on average, in Syzran, 60% in Lytkarino, 55% in Mytishi, and
47% in Nerungri.
Expenditures for food, non-food, and utilities by expenditure quintiles. Households in the bottom
quintiles use most of their expenditures for food and utility services. By contrast, households in the top
quintiles are able to use a much larger share of their expenditures for goods and services that are neither
food items nor expenditures for utilities. For very poor households non-food expenditures tend to shrink to
expenditures for utilities only. In extreme cases, the poorest of the poor may have to reduce their
expenditures for food in order to be able to pay charges for utilities.
Indebtedness. In Mytishi, 12.5% of the households owe for housing and utilities, in Lytkarino, 6% of the
households are indebted to providers of utility services. In Nerungri, about 17% of the households have
debts to service providers for district heating, hot water, housing, water and sewerage, and electricity. They
owe on average 7 monthly charges for each of the mentioned services. In these cities, indebtedness is
practically not related to poverty. Not significantly more poor households are indebted to providers of heat
and hot water than non-poor households.
Privileges. Discounts or "privileges" for housing and communal services are widespread in Mytishi,
Lytkarino and Syzran. In Nerungri, privileges for residential customers are marginal. In Mytishi, 57% of
the households get privileges, in Lytkarino 58%, and in Syzran 45% of the households. The large majority
of all privilege beneficiaries in these three cities get a 50% discount on their charges for housing and
communal services. Discount or privilege programs are not targeted to the poor.
4. Social Assistance to Low Income Households: The Housing Allowance Program
Improving cost effectiveness of the heating systems, as well as ensuring that the population (except the
poorest) pay an increasingly higher share of the real cost of heat, is important for freeing up means to
provide better social assistance to the poor, and better communal services like health and education.
- 88 -



Currently the five project cities spend in excess of 30 percent of their municipal budgets on housing sector
services, of which approximately one quarter is untargeted heat and hot water subsidies.
Russia's housing allowance program is the most important social assistance scheme in place in the energy
sector and a key component of the current system of social assistance.
Program size and average allowance levels. The allowance program in Mytishi is small in relative terms
as only 6% of the households are allowance beneficiaries. Also, the average size of the allowance
amounting to 40 Rubles/month is small as compared to the other three project cities. The allowance
program in Nerungri is moderate as compared to the other project cities, as about 11% of the households
get allowances. However, the average size of the allowance amounting to 355 Rubles/month is
extraordinary large as compared to all other project cities. The allowance programs in Lytkarino and
Syzran are relatively large, as they benefit 19% (Lytkarino) and 20% (Syzran) of households. The average
sizes of the allowance in these two cities are moderate, as they amount to 52 Rubles/month in Lytkarino
and 75 Rubles/month in Syzran.
Targeting. Targeting is deficient in all four cities. However, the extent and the type of deficiency are
different. In Lytkarino and Mytishi, lack of coverage is small but leakage of resources to non-eligible
households is a problem. Assumning that households in the two bottom per capita expenditure deciles would
be eligible, in Lytkarino, 63% of the program resources go to non-eligible households whereas in Mytishi
74% of the resources spent go to non-eligible households. Lack of coverage is marginal under these
conditions. Assuming that households in the four bottom per capita expenditure deciles would be eligible,
leakage decreases considerably. Under these assumptions, in Lytkarino, 18% of program resources benefit
non-eligible households whereas in Mytishi 40% of resources spent benefit non-eligible households. Lack
of coverage amounts to 5% in Mytishi and 3% in Lytkarino.
The severity of leakage in Lytkarino and Mytishi vanishes somewhat considering that only small amounts
of misdirected resources go to households in deciles 6-10 in both cities. In Mytishi, most of wrongly
charmeled resources (25%) go to households in decile 5. 15% of the resources leaking to non-eligible
households go to beneficiaries in deciles 6-9. In Lytkarino, between 2% and 5% of misdirected resources
go to households in deciles 5-9.
Targeting is particularly deficient in Nerungri. Program leakage is severe and also lack of coverage is
severe. Targeting issues in Syzran are similar to those in Mytishi and Lytkarino. Assuming that
households in the two bottom per capita expenditure deciles would be eligible, in Nerungri, 88% of the
program resources go to non-eligible households whereas in Syzran 54% of the resources spent go to
non-eligible households. Lack of coverage amounts to 15% of households in Nerungri and 10% in Syzran
under these conditions. Assuming that households in the four bottom per capita expenditure deciles would
be eligible, leakage decreases. Under these assumptions, in Nerungri, 52% of program resources benefit
non-eligible households whereas in Syzran 32% of resources spent benefit non-eligible households. Lack of
coverage amounts to 30% in Nerungri and 20% in Syzran.
The severity of leakage in Nerungri even increases when considering that large amounts of misdirected
resources go to households in deciles 5 (12%) and 6 (28%). In Syzran most of wrongly channeled
resources go to households in deciles 7-10, 15% of resources go to deciles 5 and 6. In Nerungri, 26% of
misdirected resources go to households in deciles 5 (9%), 6 (8%), and 10 (90/O).
- 89 -



5. Developing an Enhanced Strategy for Targeting Social Assistance to Low-Income Households
During project preparation, activities have been initiated in close coordination with Mytishi's housing
allowance department and other pertinent Russian authorities to enhance targeting of social assistance to
low-income households, and specifically reduce leakage of funds to non-eligible beneficiaries. The key task
is to identify suitable social indicators that allow distinguishing eligible from non-eligible households
among applicants to the housing allowance program more reliably than at present. These indicators should
be used as targeting criteria in addition to reported income, which does not sufficiently allow capturing
informal sector income. Their application should be systematically assessed and monitored over time.
Based on insights from this follow-up, the targeting strategy should be adjusted and refined. The
achievements of the housing allowance programs should be monitored annually or biannually based on
qualitative and quantitative assessments (household surveys). Training of housing allowance staff would be
required to implement the enhanced targeting strategy.
- 90 -



IBRD 31128
VUMOMOPAVIVACA
RMM FEDEZATON
K-                                                                                        MUNICIPAL HEAnNG PROJECT
RFhl ,', O'   o6g,
4pAl,, T.-, b.ckj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bing
A10JECTCM (popukitim in powimesl                                        AUTONaVO4 OMW ," T(A WWK BMNDAMW
CANDIDATEPROJECrCrM$(populaffonmpo-#mw5)
%
53 13-1-k-l-                                                    g)  NAT0,14CAPMAL                                                              ECCINOWIREGON"mum
2N.-              54 Ckdl,b ,k         UNTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                    96
5,                                                                    RfVERS
1NTEMWKM90UNDI1M
KNGDOM
A K-              5'  _bu,
5 M--k            57 F.-                                          Nb-.P,- S.
51 ,, 1, ,,k
,9
61 S-d
7 N,   ,I                                       S.
NO
61 A..                                          NORWAY
6,         .2 G.,,, Al,
11                 63
t   bl,,k                                                                                                                                                   61
6                                                                                  J
2B,,-k            66 0"'                                                     SWEDEN                           _j ,3
14 K.                Kh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
1 5K.0-,           11-11M'1111               "r     -         -
'7 MM.,:=  C 1,                        GERMXY U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7          CA
FINLAND
old             70 BI,,y.,
71 Ch,.
201                                          "i
21 T-              7
2 Tl.             74 U,I-ody
23 vlkd-,          75 K  rr,I,
2A Y-16            76
AH
Kh.k,                    POMD
x I
78T                                                                                                                                                  Z
79                                                                                                                                                                                                              89
Z                                                                                                                                                                        71
,5 K  d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                00-k
27 L p.            80 A-
28 T-b-            81 K-h.lk.                                  BELARUS
9V..-,                                                                               Nb4*0
1K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4t.
84 J- A AD                                                                                                                                                              A- C',
86 MA,.d                                                                     Kost'roma (300 i(l)
x
ST D.               ACh,k,                                                           Mytis 1-(180,001                                                                                                                                                              83  (LgV
ROMANIA
u"            7 "'-,zl,
S, Kb.,Im E.1k.r    .S.".
3K-,,.,           89 S.,h.  6,)
I                                                                                                  1     i i   _,                                                                                                                              Nerun
Al  y,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gri
21H
,7 R-IRF,                                                                                                                                                 I X
P
8S""  1                                                                                                           D)D)
39 K ..                                                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                     8D
14PAN
40                                                                         v
Al K. yk,. kk.l" T.g,k
Y
4P-
41 11
0
45 T.1,,I.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S.
Kras  yorsk                     "I
47 Ily.,.,,k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A"d
72
estok
41 K,,.,
50 =s, E                                   TURKEY
Ih,
5M                                                                                                                   KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                      GiNA
52 N Z  N.,g.,.d      -d--,
= .F-h                                                                              Ai
S--                      Yk    c
No                                                                                                                                                WCNOCUA
J
OCTOBER 2000



