World Bank Russia Municipal Heating Project
E-398
VOL. 1
Environmental Assessment for the Russian District
Heating Project
Central Project Development Unit
July 2000



Content
1.  BACKGROUND ..............................................3
2.   LEGAL FRAMEWORK RUSSIAN LEG'ISLATION .............................................3
3.   DATA SHEETS OF THE CITIES ..............................................7
4. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR RUSSIAN DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT12



1. Background
World Bank requirements
In accordance with the World Bank's Operational Guidelines (GP 4.01 Annex B, January
1999) District Heating projects are usually classified as Category B project on the purpose of
environmental issues. This is based on the definition of Energy efficiency and energy
conservation projects.
A limited analysis of specific environmental impacts is required for a category 'B' project, a
so-called Environmental Management Plan, not a full Environmental Impact Study. A
proposed project is classified as category B if the potential adverse environmental impacts on
human population and environmentally important areas are site-specific and few if
irreversible (OP4.01 January 1998 World bank). The scope of the environmental assessment
of a category B project will vary from project to project, but the study will contain the
potential negative and positive environmental impacts and the measures needed to prevent,
minimize, mitigate or compensate the adverse impacts.
The Environmental Assessment report of the Russian heating project consists of three
documents:
- Legal framework, this document describes the Russian Legislation with respect to the
relevant aspects (emissions to the air, waste disposal and labour safety). For environmental
aspects for which the Russian Legislation is not adequate, international (European) standards
are used;
- Data sheet of every city, which contains a project description, baseline data and the impact
of the project;
- Management plan for aspects which need attention in the implementation phase.
2. Legal framework Russian legislation
Emissions to the air
The approach in the environmental legislation of the Russian Federation to emission limits
from emissions to the air in the permnits of boiler houses is based on the effects of the
emissions on the air quality at ground level (contribution to the imission concentration).
Actual emissions of ambient air pollutants as a rule are calculated on the basis of fuel
consumption as well as on the fuel composition and the performance of the burners. Pollutant
concentrations as a function of the load are used for the calculations (load tables). These
tables are obtained by flue gas measurements during the performance test of the boiler.
The next step is to carry out dispersion calculation to calculate the air quality on ground level,
using the information of the mass flow of the pollutants (NO,, CO etc), the height of the
stack, the meteorological conditions and the contribution of other sources, like traffic and
other stacks. The calculated emission concentrations are compared with the air quality limits
for the relevant pollutants of the government (table 2). If the results of the calculations don't
comply with the air quality limits, it's possible to get a temporary emission limit.



Table 1.     Air qualitv limits Russian Federation
Component              maximum immission concentration
[mg/M3]
NO                     0.6
NO2                    o,085
CO                     13,0
SO2                    0,5
Calculation of PDV (licensed or permitted emission limits) is carried out for the most "grave"
situation: concentration of pollutants is assumed to be at full boiler equipment load, with very
"bad" fuel and summer conditions for pollutants dispersion (the hottest month in a year).
Taking into account that heating companies are under operation within the heating (cold)
season, and peak of their activities refer to the coldest period of the year, PDV for such
enterprises are calculated on the basis of conditions for pollutants dispersion with regard to
the coldest month in a year.
Books of PDV/PDS (licensed or permit discharge limits) comprise all information required
for all the facilities that are emission sources, and which are_incorporated in the particular
enterprise. That means, PDV do not give a distinguishing characteristic of one particular
source of emissions but they present the emission characteristics of the particular enterprise as
a whole. In the event any emission source changes from  owner, both parties  should
incorporate relevant changes into the composition of their enterprises' sources. Consistent
with the requirements books of PDV should be adjusted correspondingly.
Besides the above mentioned rate of permit limits, the book of PDV incorporates a time-
schedule of required inspection (including emissions measurements) with regard to their
concentration or other parameters (load table). The enterprise's staff carries out the
inspection. Natural environment protection bodies could either undertake at regular intervals
parallel inspections or participate in the inspection procedures carried out by the enterprise.
All data, obtained as a result of the inspection, carried out by enterprise's staff in conformity
to the adopted schedule, is recorded. Environment protection bodies are not entitled to present
the results of their check to the inspected enterprises.
Existing environmental regulations set up a fixed time interval to draw up a revised version of
the PDV (PDS) books - once in 5 (five) years. Rates of PDV (PDS) should be revised and
adjusted in case the equipment, processing procedures and type of fuel are undergoing
changes. Basically, the above mentioned rates(or norms) could be revised even every three
months.
The result of this approach is that emission limits are laid down in the permit of every stack as
a mass flow of the pollutants in tons/year and grams/second. These limits are per stack, not
per boiler, because more than one boiler can emit through the same stack. These limits and the
temporarily allowed emission limits will be used as reference situation for the current state of
the environment.
Enterprises that are sources of environmental pollution have to pay environmental (emissions,
discharges, waste and etc.) fees. They are to fill in corresponding forms: 2-TP (air) - (2-TI1 -
B03Dyx), 2-TP (water) - (2-TH  - BOJX03), 2-TH  (harmful waste) - (2-TH  - TOKCH4HbIe
OTXOJIhI). Data, that is included in the above forms, reflect the recorded information with
regard to environmental pollution and appropiiate natural resources consumption.



Emission fees are charged on the basis of rates (norms) adopted in 1991.
Table 2. Emission fees
Pollutant               Within the permitted limits (PDV  or
VSV) [RBLS/tons]
NO                      275
NO2                    415
S02                     330
CO                      5
Coal ash                825
V205                    8250
In case the actual emission into the air (discharge to water reservoirs) exceeds the adopted
permit limits (PDV/VSV), payment of fees for the discrepancies is 5 (five) times as much as
the regular fee payment.
Adopted 1991 rates are subject for indexation on a yearly basis. Thus, current index factor
presently makes 47 (1998). That means, for one ton of emissions (for example NO),
nowadays 12 925 Rbls. should be paid (47 x 275 = 12 925).
Moreover, in case when the emission sources are located close to the recreational facilities,
natural reserves (zapovednik) or etc., some additional fee rates are established. In conformity
with the current legislation the procedure has been established to allocate the proportion of
fees for the local, regional and federal funds respectively.
For Moscow, it is adopted that the amount of NO2 emission makes 80% of the NOx emission
to calculate the fees.
Waste disposal
As far as majority of boiler houses utilizes natural gas of very good quality, there are no
problem expected with Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbons. As to rubble of furnaces, there are no
special regulations on this issue. Some of the rubble is recycled, some - is disposed at special
landfills.
Public safety during reconstruction
There are some regulations for public safety during reconstruction labor, but they refer mainly
to the labor safety regulations and are not related to environmental issues. It is compulsory to
observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local administration bodies. In this
case the Customer (Heating Networks Company) hires some company (Contractor) and in
line with the contract on e.g. pipe replacing, they should develop Work Implementation
Procedure. All work to be done (earth excavation, all requirements with regard to safety of
people, buildings, some means of communication and etc.) is carried out according to the
contract (Customer or Contractor) and first of all is to be approved by the city administration
and its corresponding departments.
Asbestos
In Russia only guidelines to utilise asbestos as construction/insulation materials are present
(SNIP 2.03.09-95 and GOST 12871-83E). However, this legislation is not specifically made
for safety. There is no Russian legislation with respect to labour safety, occupational health



and disposal for asbestos. It's still allowed to utilise asbestos insulation materials in the
Russian federation.
International Standards/treaties
For some environmental aspects the Russian legislation differs from international standards .
In the next paragraphs European legislation with respect to emissions to the air and asbestos is
given to provide a broader view for this lopics.
Air emission limit values: European Directive 88/609/EEG
This Directive (Large Combustion Plant Directive 88/609/EEG) contains emission limits for
combustion plants, built after 1987, with a nominal thermal capacity higher then 50 MW (43
Gcal/h). The European Parlement has amended this directive and it's expected that in the year
2000 most emission limits will be halved.
Table 3.     Emission Limits 88/609/EEG
Component    fuel         thermal capacity  emission limit
________          [mg/m3l*
NOx as NO2    natural gas > 50 MW           350
oil       '50 MW             450
(general)  ________________
SO2            oil        50-300 MW         1.700
(general)
300-500 MW        linear decrease from  1700 to
400
> 500 MW          400
* related on 273 K, 101,3 kPa dry flue gas and 3 vol % 02
In the presented feasibility studies most boilers are smaller than 50 MW, the average NOx
emission of gas fired boilers in the project is ;t 70 g NO, as NO2/GJ (± 250mg/ m3 related on
273 K, 101,3 kPa dry flue gas and 3 vol %o O).
Asbestos: European Guideline 83/447/EiEG and 91/382/EC
The goal of this legislation is minimising the exposure of work force to asbestos fibres. Most
used type of asbestos fibres is Chrysotile (white asbestos), Amosite (brown asbestos) and
Crocidolite (blue asbestos) can also be used. Crocidolite is more dangerous for human health
risks.
The exposure limits for asbestos fibres are:
Table 4. Standards asbestos concentration in air.
standard                           Asbestos   (except Crocidolite
Crocidolite)
limit value       [fibres/cmN      0.3                 01
intervention value  [fibres/cm  ]  0.1                 _
clearance   value  [fibres/cm3]    0.015               0.005
(after removal)
f(



3. Data Sheets of the Cities
Dubna
General info: population -     72 600
residential stock -  1 100 000 sq. m
heating season -    212 days
Status of working group: Order of the Head of Administration Proh V. E. # R-1068 dated
31.07.2000.
Chairman of working group - Dzuba S.F., Deputy Head of administration
Project cost:     9.1 M$ US
Loan amount       6.9 M $ US
Project components (in $ US):
Replacement of networks.                                  3 456 081
Installation of heat meters at the customer level,        3 222 944
automation of control system.
Automation of 2 boiler-houses.                            1 032 756
Total                                                     7 711 780
Fulfillment of World Bank criteria:
*  collection:           93% (PTO GH), 124% (Tenzorenergia)
: collection = (cash+off-sets)/(energy costs+personnel costs)
*  tariff level for population:    60%
*  status of heating company:   (1st enterprise) municipal unitary enterprise
and (2nd) partnership with limited liability.
* guarantees provision received: 19.04.2000 N 517, 08.08.2000 N 1136; 13.09.2000 N 2-
7276; the Decision of the Moscow oblast on the list of investment projects in Moscow
oblast for the years 2000-2001 N 9/103 dated 28.06.2000



Kostroma
General info:      population -       300,000
residential stock -  5 178,4 thous. sq. m
heating season -    224 days
Status of working group: Order of Clairmnan of Housing and Communal Economy Dept.
Boyarsky B.H. # 182a dated December 12, 97.
Chairman of working group - Shimanovich M.U., Chief specialist of Housing and Communal
Economy Dept. (new Chairman appointed in 2000 - Boyarsky B.H.)
Project cost:      14.8 MUS$
Loan amount        1 1.0 MUS$
Project components (in $ US ):
Rehabilitation of heat supply systems connected to 19       6 706 056
CHS's of Kostromateploenergo and 4 CHS's of
Kostromateploservice
Installation of new 7 MW modular boiler house                608 400
Rehabilitation of heat supply systems connected to boiler   1 632 226
houses # 1, 2, 3 of Kostromateploservice
IRehabilitation of heat transmission piPelines              3 321 107
Total                                                      12 267 788
Fulfillment of World Bank criteria
•  collection:           100% (Teploenergo), 121% (Teploservis)
* collection = (cash+off-sets)/(energy costs+personnel costs)
*  tariff level for population:    60%
*  status of heating company:    municipal unitary enterprises
* guarantees provision received: 30.03.2000 N 02-5/599, 31.07.2000 N 02-13/1463,
14.08.2000 N 02-20/1552



Mytishi
General info: population -      180 000
residential stock -  3 498 700 sq.m.
heating season -    205 days
Status of working group: Order of the Head of Administration Astrahov A.K. # 975 dated
April 6, 98 .
Chairman of working group - Nazarov U.I., Dep. head of administration.
Project cost:      18.0 MUS $
Loan amount        11.6 MUS $
Project components ( in $ US):
Construction of new Boiler house with a Mini Cogeneration           2 246 411
Facility
Replacement of pipelines                                            5 956 268
Construction of a New Connection Pipeline                           2 967 782
Automation of Existing Central Heating Substations                   765 289
Installation of Individual Substations                              3 293 451
Total                                                              15 229 202
Fulfillment of World Bank criteria
*  collection:           122%
* collection = (cash+off-sets)/(energy costs+personnel costs)
*  tariff level for population:    60%
*  status of heating company:    Teploset - Municipal unitary enterprise
*  guarantees provision received: 14.04.2000 N 1-715, 04.08.2000 N 1-1435; 13.09.2000 N
2-7276; the Decision of the Moscow oblast on the list of investment projects in
Moscow oblast for the years 2000-2001 N 9/103 dated 28.06.2000



Nerungri
General info:      population -       78 500
residential stock -  1509.5 thous. sq.m.
heating season -    268 days
Status of working group: Order of the Head of Administration Startsev V.V. # 3495-R
dated November 23, 98.
Chairman of working group -Rusakov A.F., Dep. head of administration.
Project cost:      14.1 MUS $
Loan amount:       10.2 MUS $
Project components ( in $ US ):
Rehabilitation of Central Heat Substations                          2 289 332
Installation of Automated Individual Heat Substations               5 180 286
Replacement of Heating Networks                                     4 487 274
Total                                                              11 956 892
Fulfillment of World Bank criteria
o collection: 103(%) financial data not submitted yet
* collection = (cash+off-sets)/(energy costs+personnel costs)
D  tariff level for population:    60%7o
-  status of heating company:    municipal unitary enterprise
-  guarantees provision received: 13.03.2000 N 286, 24.07.2000 N 573; 03.06.2000 N 02-
250, 25.07.2000 N 02-311



Syzran
General info: population -     185,000
residential stock -  3,6 mln. sq. m
heating season -    205 days
Status of working group: Order of the Head of Administration # 208-p dated 17. 12. 97.
Chairman of working group -Pletnev A., Dep. head of administration
Project cost:     4.9 MUS $
Loan amount:      3.7 MUS$
Project components ( in $ US ):
Rehabilitation of boiler-house Ns1.                     1 961 640
Rehabilitation of boiler-house N° 4, construction of new  269 371
pipeline
Construction of new steam boiler house in Novokashirski  1 765 325
settlement
Total                                                   3 996 336
Fulfillment of World Bank criteria
- collection:            123%
* collection = (cash+off-sets)/(energy costs+personnel costs)
-  tariff level for population:    60%
-  status of heating company:    municipal unitary enterprise
*  guarantees provision received: 24.03.2000 N 01-23/347, 28.07.2000 N 01-25/879;
28.09.2000 N 1-30/814.
Approval of program of housing and communal economy reforming in the city:
Resolution of the city Duma 1 8 dated 29.04.1998 a.



4. Environmental Management Plan for Russian District Heating Project
The analyses of the feasibility studies of the cities show that in general the projects have a
positive environmental impact (fuel, water and electricity savings, reduction of emissions,
higher efficiency DH network etc.). However during implementation of the projects especially
two aspects need attention:
-  the handling, removal and disposal of asbestos;
- the environmental performance of new equipment and construction materials
In almost every feasibility study, it's stated that no asbestos containing insulation materials
are used. However, it's possible that the cities are not aware of the presence of asbestos
materials at this stage of project and that during implementation of the projects asbestos will
be encountered. Normally asbestos is used in boilers and high temperature parts, so in several
parts of boiler houses asbestos is expected..
The Russian legislation has no requirernents for the removal and disposal of asbestos. To
provide the cities a guideline to deal with the health problems of asbestos the a strategy is
presented. in the next paragraph.
The "environmental performance" of new equipment and materials is discussed in the
relevant paragraph. This is mainly a point of attention during procurement and
implementation.
After implementation of the projects in the cities, monitoring of the environmental impact of
the projects will be carried out to assess the actual impact compared to the predicted impact in
the feasibility studies. This will provide information for other projects in district heating. In
the last paragraph some remarks with respect to a monitoring program are presented.
Asbestos
From technical pointy of view, asbestos has very favourable specifications, which lead to a
wide range of applications of asbestos. Asbestos is highly temperature resistant, non
flammable and chemical resistant. Some examples of the application of asbestos are:
- insulation materials;
-  woven asbestos fabric;
- asbestos paper;
- cord (also as packing);
- filling materials in sealant and plastics;
- asbestos/cement products
Asbestos is dangerous for humans and can cause cancer, when the fibres are inhaled. So
special precautions are necessary when working with asbestos to prevent that the workers and
inhabitants of the surrounding buildings will be exposed to asbestos. Also the disposal of
asbestos needs attention to prevent the dispersion of asbestos in the environment. The goal of
American and European legal requirements is to minimise the exposure of human beings to
asbestos.
To minimise the exposure to asbestos during the implementation of the project components
the following procedure is recommended (based on legislation from EU, US and The
Netherlands)



Remarks
Survey:
- It can be difficult to identify if materials contain asbestos. A sample must be taken and
send to a specialised laboratory for identification.
During the actual removal the contractor must take the following precautions/actions:
- The people working in the contaminated area must use personal safety equipment,
especially breath protection equipment and a overall;
- To prevent dispersion of the fibres, the workplace must be separated from the non
contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. Normally, the work place is encapsulated (the
containment) and the air pressure is lowered by installing a suction system. A high efficiency
filter is placed in the outlet of the suction system to prevent the dispersion of asbestos fibres.
Between the containment and the non contaminated area a decontamination unit is placed,
where the contaminated clothing is removed and the people take a shower to prevent the
dispersion of fibres;
- Supervision is required to prevent the incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos. Also the
medical status of the working people must be controlled;
- The asbestos containing waste must be packed into plastic film to prevent the risks of
dispersion of fibres during transportation and disposal. Asbestos is disposed at a special
landfill under conditions that prevent the dispersion of fibres.
Environmental impact materials/equipment
When boilers are upgraded or procured, low NOx burners must be used. The average current
specific emissions of natural gas burners in this project are ± 75 g NOx/GJ, which is already
low, compared to the World Bank requirements for thermal power plants (85 g NOx/GJ) and
the European limit (± 100 g NOx/GJ for gas fired burner). The European limit is expected to
be lowered to ± 50 g NOx/GJ. The specific emissions of the best natural gas burners (for
small burners) can be as low as 20 g NOx/GJ, 40 g NOx/GJ is a realistic value for the Russian
situation.
When the equipment will be procured the environmental aspects of the materials must be
known, especially from the insulation materials. Asbestos insulation or PUR-insulation,
which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be acceptable.
Monitoring
A monitoring program provides information about essential environmental aspects of the
projects. It will also guarantee the effectiveness of the measures from the Municipal Heating
Program based on the environmental performances as required from the suppliers.
In many project measuring equipment (water, fuel, heat etc) will be installed to improve the
monitoring of the performance of the district heating systems. The data of these equipment
must be collected and used to control and optimise the performance of the district heating
system. Normally this is already done from financial point of view, because the more efficient
the production and distribution of heat the more the savings in money.
From the important environmental impacts, only the emissions to the air are not monitored, in
the projects sometimes CO measuring equipment will be installed to improve the boiler
performance. An emission measurement program can be set up to control the emissions to the
air, possible measurement equipment can be procured by the municipalities (e.g.
electrochemical measurement equipment for NO,, SO2, CO and 02). These measurements
13



will provide information about the emissions to the air, the state of maintenance of the burners
and boilers and the energy savings. Measurements have to be carried out on every boiler at a
regular and high frequency to assure the expected environmental benefits (emission reduction,
energy saving) of the Municipal Heating Program.
The monitoring of boilers will also result in to cost savings, because the optimal performnance
of the burners and boiler can be maintained and the fuel consumption will be as low as
possible.
14



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN DUBNA
Al. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 1 & 2
Replacement of pipelines and installation of individual heat substations
Cost                Institutional             Commeiits
Responsibility          (e.g. secondary
mpcts)
Phase             Issue                                   Mitigating measure                            Install                install  IOperate
Construction *   Public safety and    Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local administration.
nuisance           The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of the city and the                         Chief of Construction
Contractor assigned for the implementation works will develop and specify                   Department Mr A. Minakov
the procedure for implementation of the works that will be included into the
contract. The implementation procedure will be approved by the city
administration and its corresponding departments.
.   Dust & Noise        Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
earprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens, etc.
*   Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
materials -non     dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents). Concrete and other scrap
hazardous waste    material will be removed to approved deposits
materials (metal
scrap, concrete, etc)
15



Construcltion *   Disposal of solid    To identily if materials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-hazardous laboratory for identification.
waste materials    Removing and disposal of asbestos insulation matcrials will be handled by
(asbcstos)         governrnent approved and licensed companies and in compliance with
Russian legislation regarding handling of asbestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95
and GOST 12871-83E.
The contractor will take the following precautions/actions:
- The workers in the contaminated area will use personal safety
equipment, especially breath protection equipment and overalls;
- To prevent dispersion of asbestos, the workplace will be separated from
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will be encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
efficiency tilter shall be placed in the outlet of the suction system to
prevent the dispersion ol asbestos tibres.
- Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
decontamination unit shall be placed, where contaminated clothing is
removed and the workerc may take shower
- Supervision of the works will be performed in order to prevent the
incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic film during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUJR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
Operation    *   Water leakage       Extended mainitenianice systCm to reduce leaks and spillage.                                                 Chief of
Production
Department
Mr. V.
Ulianovsky
16



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN DUBNA
A2. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 3
Rehabilitation of boiler houses
Cost                Institutional             Comments
Responsibility          (e.g. secondary
__________                                                                                                             impa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cts)
Phase             Issue                                 Mitigating measure                              Install                install      Operate
Construction *   Public safety and    Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local administration.
nuisance           The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of Dubna and the                            Chief of Construction
Contractor assigned for the implementation works will develop and specify                  Department of PTO GH
the procedure for implementation of the works that will be included into the               Mr. A. Chernishov
contract. The implementation procedure will be approved by the city
administration and its corresponding departments.                                          Chief of Construction
Department of Energia-
*   Dust & Noise        Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water                                           Tenzor Mr. A.Sirosh
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
earprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens, etc.
*   Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
materials -non     dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents). Concrete and other scrap
hazardous waste    material will be removed to approved deposits
materials (metal
scrap, concrete, etc)
17



*   Disposal of solid    To identify if mnaterials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-liazardous laboratory tor identi ficationl.
waste materials    Removing of asbestos insulation materials will be handled by government
(asbestos)         approved and licensed companies and in compliance with Russian legislation
regarding handling of asbestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95 and GOST 12871-
83E.
The contractor will take the bollowing precautions/actions:
-   The workers in the contaminated area will use personal satety
equipment, especially breath protection equipment and overalls;
-   To prevent dispersion of asbestos, the workplace will be separated from
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will be encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
efficiency filter shall be placed in the outlet ol the suction system to
prevent the dispersion of asbestos fibres.
-   Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
deconntamination unit sha!! be is placed, .v,h2rc contanmnated cloth:n^, :
removed and the workers may take shower.
-   Supervision of the works will be performed in order to prevent the
incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic film during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
18



Operation    *   Emissions to the air NOx     Low NOx burners will be used when replaced *
S02      Use of oil with low S content and/or switch of fuel from mazout                                Chief of
and coal to natural gas                                                                        Construction
CO       extended maintenance of burmers;                                                               Department of
CO2      maximize fuel savings                                                                          PTO GHi
Mr. A.
*   Water leakage      Extended use of closed water systems with water leakage detectors.                                       Chernishov
Extended maintenance measures as more frequent tightening the joints.
replacement of gaskets. etc.                                                                            Chief of
Construction
*   Fuel leakage       Extended maintenance measures as above and anrangement of special                                        Department of
collection devices points                                                                               Energia-Tenzor
Mr. A.Sirosh
*   Fuel spillage      Arrangement of spill prevention points, special collection devices points,
extended maintenance measures.
* The World Bank requirements for specific emissions using natural gas burners in thermal power plantis are 85 g NOx/GJ
and the European Unit limit are 100 g NOx/GJ. The European limit is soon expected to be lowered to ± 50 g NOx/GJ.
19



B1. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 1 & 2
Replacement of pipelines and installation of individual heat substations
Cost              Responsibility
Phase         What param71eter    Where                     How                         When                   Why             Install     Operate    Install    Operate
is to be             is the patramtieter to be  is the parameter to be   is thle parameter to    Is the
monitored?           m71o01itored?            uion itored/type of        be  uion itored-        parameter to
monitoring equipmiientt?   frequenicy of           be
mtieasuremelit or      monitored
continlilous?          (optional)?
Construction   Nuisance             At the construction area   Monitoring procedure for    During construction
implementation oi'the      period                                                           Chiciof Construction
works and tender document                                                                   DepartmAenat
Mr A. Minakov
Dust                 At the construction and   Visually                  Dry periods daily basis
demolishing areas
Noise                Near the living area,   Noise meters                During constiuction
Schools, hospitals,                                 and demolishing
kindergartens, etc.                                 activities; when local
residents issue
complaints
Disposal of non      At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     Each month
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents requirements
(concrete, metal     central heat substations,
scrap,etc.)          replacement of pipes
areas
Disposal of          At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     When it requires, not
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents and following     less than once a month
(ashestos)           deposits, dealers       up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
Operation     Water spillage       Central and individual    Visually, measurements     Daily basis                                                      Chiel' of Production
substations, pipelines in  and registration on water                                                                 Departinent of P'l'O
tunnels and ducts.      content in the system and                                                                    Mr. V. lUlianovsky
water consumption
20



B2. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 3
Rehabilitation of boiler houses
Cost               Responsibilitv
Phase         What parameter is   Where                    How                        When                   Why             Install     Operate      Install    Operate
to be monitoired?    is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be  is the parameter to be    Is the
monitored?              monitoredJ type of         monitored-frequency    parameter to
monjitoring equipment?     Of measirement or      be monitored
co.nitnUl(ous?         (optional)?
Construction   Nuisance            At the construction area   Monitoring procedure for    During construction
implementation of the      period                                                          Chief of Construction
works and tender document                                                                  Departmenit of lPTO
Mr. A. Chcrnislmov
Dust                 At the construction area   Visually                Dry pcriods daily basis
Chlief Of ConlStruLCtion
Noise                Near the living area    Noise meters               During construction                                             Department of
activities; when local                                          Energia-Tenzor
residents issue                                                 Mr. A.Sirosh
complaints
Disposal of non     At the construction      Monitoring the tender      Each month
hazardous materials  areas                   documents requirements
Disposal of          At the construction and   Monitoring the tender    When it requires, not
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents and following    less than once a month
(asbestos)          deposits, dealers        up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
Operation     SO,                  In the stack            S02 - multifunction        Once a week                                                      Chief of Production
chemical gas analyzer in all                                                               Department of PTO
plants measuring of change                                                                 Mr. V. Mukhin
of fuel composition.
NO,                  In the stack            NO, - multifunction        Daily basis                                                     Chief ol Construction
chemical gas analyzer in all                                                               Department of
plants, following up the                                                                   Energia-Tenzor
contract requirements for                                                                  Mr. A.Sirosh
low Nox bumers.
Water & Fuel         Fuel storage plants,    Visually, measurements on   Daily basis
spillage             water treatment plants,   water and fuel amounts in
production plants      the system.
21



C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.     Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
Equipment is listed in annex 15 of the Project Implementation Plan
2.     Training/Study Tours
Technical training is discussed in Project Irnplementation Plan, annexes 3, Technical assistance
program and twinning program.
Training will be set up for operators and other specialists if the monitoring equipment and instruments
will be replaced. Duration of the training will be according to recommendation and requirements from
the supplier.
Training of appropriate staff will be perforrned to inform and learn about handling of asbestos waste
and if required of PCB in order to manage correct purchasing and monitoring of the contracts works
3.      Consultant Services
No consultants are planned to be involved in the environmental institutional strengthening.
D. SCHEDULE
The activities are identified in the Project Irnplementation Plan.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Books of PDV/PDS (licensed or permit disc harge limits) comprise all information required for all the
facilities that are emission sources, and which are incorporated in the particular enterprise. That means,
PDV do not give a distinguishing characteristic of one particular source of emissions but they present
the emission characteristics of the particular enterprise as a whole. In the event any emission source
changes from owner, both parties should incorporate relevant changes into the composition of their
enterprises' sources. Consistent with the requirements books of PDV should be adjusted
correspondingly.
Besides the above mentioned rate of permit limits, the book of PDV incorporates a time-schedule of
required inspection (including emissions measurements) with regard to their concentration or other
parameters (load table). The enterprise's staff carries out the inspection. Natural environment
protection bodies could either undertake at regular intervals parallel inspections or participate in the
inspection procedures carried out by the enterprise. All data, obtained as a result of the inspection,
carried out by enterprise's staff in conformity to the adopted schedule, is recorded. Environment
protection bodies are not entitled to present the results of their check to the inspected enterprises.
Existing environmental regulations set up a fixed time interval to draw up a revised version of the PDV
(PDS) books - once in 5 (five) years. Rates of PDV (PDS) should be revised and adjusted in case the
equipment, processing procedures and type of fuel are undergoing changes. Basically, the above
mentioned rates(or norms) could be revised even every three months.
The result of this approach is that emission limits are laid down in the permit of every stack as a mass
flow of the pollutants in tons/year and grams/second. These limits are per stack, not per boiler, because
more than one boiler can emit through the same stack. These limits and the temporarily allowed
emission limits will be used as reference situation for the current state of the environment.
_ _



Enterprises that are sources of environmental pollution have to pay environmental (emissions,
discharges. waste and etc.) fees. They are to fill in corresponding forms: 2-TP (air) - (2-TH - Bo3Iyx),
2-TP (water) - (2-TB - 1o0txo3), 2-Tn (harmful waste) - (2-TB - TOKCIHHbIe OTXOnbl). Data, that is
included in the above forms, reflect the recorded information with regard to environmental pollution
and appropriate natural resources consumption.
Collection of data: If available computerized supervision system for collection, storage,
handling of
data as charts, statistics, historical values etc.
Other plants - Data is collected by operational staff once a week at each boiler plant
or during unusual situations as failures, irrational firing process if required.
Analyze of data:  Analyze of data is performed by the chief of production plants by visual review and
check of collected data. Data is filed in the operational register.
Reporting:       Normal procedure is that the report with filed operational data is sent to the
Production Department once a month. If the data diverge from the ordinary, the
report immediately is sent to the chief of Technical Department for appropriate
measures.
Decisions:       The decision to take action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down etc. is
performed by the Technical Directors Mr. V. Mukhin. Mr. G. Smirnov (PTO) and
Mr. V. Borodin (Energia-Tenzor).
23



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN KOSTROMA
A. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 1, 2,3 & 4
Replacement of underground above the ground pipelines.
Installation of individual heat substations.
Reconstruction of central heat substations.
Reconstruction of boiler houses.
Cost            Institutional       Comments
Responsibility     (e.g. secondarly
impac ts)
Phase        Issue                           Mitigating measure                 Install            install  IOperate
24



Construction                        *   Public safety and
e                                                                                         Chief of Construction
Department Mr. N.P.lvanov
Dust &    S
e
Disposal of solid materials -non hazardous waste materials (metal scrap.
concrete, C
)
Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local
administration. The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of the
city and the Contractor assigd for the implementation works will develop and
specify the procedure for implementation of the works that will be included
into the contract. The implementation procedure will be approved by the city
administration and its corresponding departments.
Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
earprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens, etc.
Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents). Concrete and other scrap
material will be removed to approved deposits
25



Construction *   Disposal of solid    To identify ii materials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-hazardous laboratory for identiiication.
waste materials    Removing and disposal of asbestos insulationi materials will be handled by
(asbestos)         government approved and licensed companies and in compliance with
Russian legislation regarding handling of asbestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95
and GOST 12871-83E.
The contractor will take the following precautions/actions:
- The workers in the contaminated area will use personal safety
equipment, especially breath protection cquipment and overalls;
- To prevent dispersion of asbestos. the workplace will be separated from
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will he encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
efficiency tilter shall be placed in the outlet of the suction system to
prevent the dispersion of asbestos fibres.
-   Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
decontamination unit shall be placed, where contaminated clothing is
removed and the workers may take shower.
- Supervision of the works will be perlormed in order to prevent the
incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic film during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
Operation    .   Emissions to the air NOx     Low NOx burners will he used when replaced *
S02      Use of oil with low S content and/or switch of fuel from mazout                                 Chief ol
and coal to natural gas                                                                         Production
CO       extended maintenance of burners;                                                                Department
CO2      maximize fuel savings                                                                           Mr. N.l.
Pushkin
*   Water leakage       Extended use of closed water systems with water leakage detectors.
Extended maintenance measures as more frequent tightening the joints.
replacement of gaskets, etc.
*   Fuel leakage        Extended maintenance measures as above and arrangement of special
collection devices points
*   Fuel spillage       Arrangement of spill prevention points, special collection devices points,
extended maintenance measures.
* The World Bank requirements for specific emissions using natural gas bumers in thermal power plantis are 85 g NOx/GJ
and the European Unit limit are 100 g NOx/GJ, The European limit is soon expected lo be lowered to t 50 g NOx/GJ.
26



B. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 1, 2,3 & 4
Replacement of underground above the ground pipelines.
Installation of individual heat substations.
Reconstruction of central heat substations.
Reconstruction of boiler houses
Cost                      Responsihlity
Phase         What paramieter is   Where                    hlow                        When                   Why             Install     Operate       Install    Operate
to be monibtored?   is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be     is the parameter to be    Is the
monitored?              mon itored! type of         monitored-frequency    parameter to
mlonitoring equipmentt?    of measuirement or      be monitored
continutouis?          (optional)?______
Construction   Nuisance             At the construction area   Monitoring procedure for    During construction                                           Chief of Constrtction
implementation of the      period                                                           Department Mr. N.P.
works and tender document                                                                   Ivanov and
Technical Director
Dust                 At the construction and   Visually                  Dry periods daily basis                                          Mr S.A.Talohov
demolishing areas
Noise                Near the living area,   Noise meters                During construction
Schools, hospitals,                                 and demolishing
kindergartens, etc.                                 activities; when local
residents issue
complaints
Disposal of non      At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     Each month
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents requirements
(concrete, metal     central heat substations,
scrap.etc.)         replacement of pipes
areas
Disposal of          At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     When it requires, not
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents and following     less than once a month
(asbestos)           deposits, dealers       up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
27



Operation     SO2                   In the stack             SO2 - multitunction         Once a week
chemical gas analyzer in all                                                                  Chief ol Production
plants measuring of change                                                                    Department
of fuel composition.                                                                          Mr. N.I. Pushkini aiid
NO,                  In the stack             NO, - multifunction         Daily basis                                                       Techinical Director
chemical gas analyzer in all                                                                  Mr. S.A. Talobov
plants, following up the
contract requirements for
low Nox burners.
Water & Fuel         Fuel storage plants,     Visually, measurements on    Daily basis
spillage             water treatment plants,    water and fuel amounits in
production plants       the system.
28



C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.     Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
Equipment is listed in annex 15 of the Project Implementation Plan
2.     Training/Study Tours
Technical training is discussed in Project Implementation Plan, annexes 3, Technical assistance
program and twinning program.
Training will be set up for operators and other specialists if the monitoring equipment and instruments
will be replaced. Duration of the training will be according to recommendation and requirements from
the supplier.
Training of appropriate staff will be performed to inform and learn about handling of asbestos waste
and if required of PCB in order to manage correct purchasing and monitoring of the contracts works
3.     Consultant Services
No consultants are planned to be involved in the environmental institutional strengthening.
D. SCHEDULE
The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Books of PDV/PDS (licensed or permit discharge limits) comprise all information required for all the
facilities that are emission sources, and which are incorporated in the particular enterprise. That means.
PDV do not give a distinguishing characteristic of one particular source of emissions but they present
the emission characteristics of the particular enterprise as a whole. In the event any emission source
changes from owner, both parties should incorporate relevant changes into the composition of their
enterprises' sources. Consistent with the requirements books of PDV should be adjusted
correspondingly.
Besides the above mentioned rate of permit limits, the book of PDV incorporates a time-schedule of
required inspection (including emissions measurements) with regard to their concentration or other
parameters (load table). The enterprise's staff carries out the inspection. Natural environment
protection bodies could either undertake at regular intervals parallel inspections or participate in the
inspection procedures carried out by the enterprise. All data, obtained as a result of the inspection,
carried out by enterprise's staff in conformity to the adopted schedule, is recorded. Environment
protection bodies are not entitled to present the results of their check to the inspected enterprises.
Existing environmental regulations set up a fixed time interval to draw up a revised version of the PDV
(PDS) books - once in 5 (five) years. Rates of PDV (PDS) should be revised and adjusted in case the
equipment, processing procedures and type of fuel are undergoing changes. Basically, the above
mentioned rates(or norms) could be revised even every three months.
The result of this approach is that emission limits are laid down in the permit of every stack as a mass
flow of the pollutants in tons/year and grams/second. These limits are per stack, not per boiler, because
more than one boiler can emit through the same stack. These limits and the temporarily allowed
emission limits will be used as reference situation for the current state of the environment.
29



Enterprises that are sources of environmental pollution have to pay environmental (emissions,
discharges, waste and etc.) fees. They are to fill in corresponding forms: 2-TP (air) - (2-TI1 - 1o30ayx),
2-TP (water) - (2-TIn - BOztX03), 2-TH (harriful waste) - (2-Tf - TOiCcUqHbie OTXO0b]). Data, that is
included in the above forms, reflect the recorded information with regard to environmental pollution
and appropriate natural resources consumption.
Collection of data: If available computerized supervision system for collection, storage,
handling of
data as charts, statistics, historical values etc.
Other plants - Data is collected by operational staff once a week at each boiler plant
or during unusual situations as failures, irrational firing process if required.
Analyze of data:  Analyze of data is performed by the chief of production plants by visual review and
check of collected data. Data is filed in the operational register.
Reporting:        Normal procedure is that the report with filed operational data is sent to the
Production Department once a month. If the data diverge from the ordinary, the
report immediately is sent to the chief of Technical Department for appropriate
measures.
Decisions:        The decision to take action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down etc. is
performed by the Technizal Director Mr. S.A. Talobov.



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN MYTISHI
Al. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 2,3,4 & 5
Replacement of underground above the ground pipelines.
Installation of individual heat substations.
Reconstruction of central heat substations.
Cost                 Institutional            Comments
Responsibility          (e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase             Issue                                   Mitigating measure                            Install                install  |Operate
Construction *   Public safety and    Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local
nuisance           admi' ' nistration. The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of                      Chief of Construction
the city and the Contractor assigned for the implementation works will                      Depar-tment Mr. A. Kazakov
develop and specify the procedure for implementation of the works that will                 and Mr. U.N. Kaznov
be included into the contract. The implementation procedurc will be
approved by the city administration and its coesponding departments.
*   Dust & Noise       Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
carprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens, etc.
*   Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
materials -non     dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents). Concrete and other scrap
hazardous waste    material will be removed to approved deposits
materials (metal
scrap, concrete, ctc)
31



Construction *   Disposal of solid    To identify if mnaterials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-hazardous laboratory for identification.
waste materials    Removing and disposal of asbestos insulation materials will be handled by
(asbestos)         government approved and licensed companies and in compliance with
Russian legislation regarding hanidling ol asbestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95
and GOST 12871-83E.
The contractor will take the following precautions/actions:
- The workers in the contaminated area will use personal safety
equipment, especially breath protection equipment and overalls;
To prevent dispersion of asbestos, the workplace will be separated from
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will be encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
efticiency filter shall be placed in the outlet o lthe suction system to
prevent the dispersion of asbestos fibres.
- Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
decontamination unit shall be placed, where contaminated clothing is
removed and the workers may take shower.
- Supervision of the works will be performed in order to prevent the
incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic film during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
Operation   *   Water leakage       Extended maintenance system to reduce leaks and spillage.                                             Chicf of
Production
Department Mr.
lJ Kazanov and
Mr U. Kazilov
32



A2. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 1
Rehabilitation of boiler houses
Installation of new power generators
Cost                Institutional            Comments
Responsibility         (e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase            Issue                                   Mitigating measure                          Install               install   Operate
Construction *   Public safety and    Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local administration,
nuisance          The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of Dubna and the                         Chief of Construction
Contractor assigned for the implementation works will develop and specify                Department Mr. A. Kazakov
the procedure for implementation of the works that will be included into the             and Mr. U.N. Kaznov
contract. The implementation procedure will be approved by the city
administration and its corresponding departments.
*   Dust & Noise       Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
earprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens, etc.
*   Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
materials -non    dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents). Concrete and other scrap
hazardous waste    material will be removed to approved deposits
materials (metal
scrap, concrete, etc)
33



*   Disposal of solid    To identify if materials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-hazardous laboratory for identi fication.
waste materials    Removing of asbestos insulation materials will be handled by government
(asbestosPCBs*)    approved and licensed companies and in compliance with Russian legislation
regarding handling of ashestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95 and COST 12871-
83EF.
The contractor will take the following precautions/actions:
- The workers in the contaminated area will use personal sakety
equipment, especially breath protection equipment and overalls;
-   To prevent dispersion of asbestos, the workplace will be separated from
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will be encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
etficiency filter shall be placed in the outlet of the suction system to
prevent the dispersion of asbestos fibres.
-   Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
decontamination unit shall be is placed, where contaminated clothing is
removed and the workers may take shower.
-SupcrviJsion of thc wvorks vv;ll he pc; k;rmicd im oid 6'ic  p, vw,,, das
incomplete/unsafc removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic film during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
Existing PCBs content should be clarified. If transformers are
involved they will be tested for PCBs. If found levels are higher than
EU/Russian standards they will be handled according to the Russian
standard requirements.
* Power generators only
34



Operation    *   Emissions to the air NOx    Low NOx bumers will be used when replaced *
S02      Use of oil with low S content and/or switch of fuel from mazout                                Chief of
and coal to natural gas                                                                        Production
CO       extended maintenance of bumers;                                                                Department Mr.
CO2      maximize fuel savings                                                                          U Kazanov and
Mr. U. Kaznov
*   Water leakage       Extended use of closed water systems with water leakage detectors.
Extended maintenance measures as more frequent tightening the joints,
replacement of gaskets, etc.
*   Fuel leakage        Extended maintenance measures as above and arrangement of special
collection devices points
*   Fuel spillage       Arrangement of spill prevention points, special collection devices points,
extended maintenance measures.
* The World Bank requirements for specific emissions using natural gas bumers in thermal power plant are 85 g NOx/GJ
and the European Unit limit are 100 g NOx/GJ. The European limit is soon expected to be lowered to ± 50 g NOx/GI.
35



B1. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 2,3,4 & 5
Replacement of underground above the ground pipelines.
Installation of individual heat substations.
Reconstruction of central heat substations.
Cost                      Responsibility
lPhase        What paramneter is    Where                   hlow                         When                    Why              Install    Operate        Install    Operate
to be mion itored?   is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be     is the parameter to be    Is the
monitored?              mnonitoredltype of         mnonitored-frequency    parameter to
muon itorinig equipment?    of measuremehnt or     be monitored
continulsouts?         (optional)?_
Construction   Nuisance             At the construction area   Monitoring procedure Ior  During construction
implementation of the       period                                                           Chiei of Constiuction
works and tender document                                                                     Depariment Mr. A.
Kazakov and MR.
Dust                 At the construction and    Visually                  Dry periods daily basis                                           U.N. Kaznov
demolishing areas
Noise                Near the livine area .   Noise meters                Durinp enontnictinii
Schools, hospitals,                                 and demolishing
kindergartens, etc.                                 activities, when local
residents issue
complaints
Disposal of non      At the construction and    Monitoring the tender     Each month
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,      documents requirements
(concrete, metal     central heat substations,
scrap,etc.)          replacement ol pipes
areas
Disposal of          At the construction and    Monitoring the tender     When it requires, not
hazardous mnaterials   demolishing areas,     documents and following     less than once a month
(asbestos)           deposits, dealers        up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
Operation     Water spillage        Central and individual    Visually, measurements     Daily basis                                                       Chiie of Production
substations, pipelines in  and registration on water                                                                  Department Mr. U
tunnels and ducts.      content in the system and                                                                      Kazanov and Mr. UJ.N.
water consumption                                                                             Kaznov
36



B2. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 1
Rehabilitation of boiler houses.
Installation of new power generators.
Cost               Responsibilit
Phase         What parameter is   Where                     How                        When                    Why              Install     Operate       Install    Operate
to be monitored?    is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be    Is the
nionitoled?             inonitoredl type of         monitored-frequency    parameter to
monitoring equipment?      of measurement or      be monitored
c ontinuous?           (optional)?
Construction   Nuisance             At the construction area   Monitoring procedure for    During construction
implementation of the      period                                                           Chief of Construction
works and tender document                                                                   Department Mr. A.
Kazakov and MR.
Dust                 At the construction area   Visually                 Dry periods daily basis                                          U.N. Kaznov
Noise                Near the living area,   Noise meters                During construction
activities; when local
residents issue
complaints
Disposal of non      At the construction     Monitoring the tender       Each month
hazardous materials   areas                  documents requirements
Disposal of          At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     When it requires, not
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents and following     less than once a month
(asbestos)           deposits, dealers       up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
37



Operation      SO,                   In the stack              SO, - multilfunction         Once a week
chemical gas analyzer in all                                                                    Chiief ol' Productio o
plants measuring of change                                                                      Departmeilt Mr. U
of fuel composition.                                                                            Kazanov and Mi. lU.N.
NO,                   In the stack             NO, - multifunction          Daily basis                                                         Kaznov
chemical gas analyzer in all
plants, bollowing up the
contract requirements for
low Nox burners.
Water & Fuel          Fuel storage plants,     Visually, measurements on    Daily basis
spillage              water treatment plants,    water and luel amounts in
production plants        the system.
38



C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.     Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
Equipment is listed in annex 15 of the Project Implementation Plan
2.     Training/Study Tours
Technical training is discussed in Project Implementation Plan, annexes 3, Technical assistance
program and twinning program.
Training will be set up for operators and other specialists if the monitoring equipment and instruments
will be replaced. Duration of the training will be according to recommendation and requirements from
the supplier.
Training of appropriate staff will be performed to inform and learn about handling of asbestos waste
and if required of PCB in order to manage correct purchasing and monitoring of the contracts works
3.     Consultant Services
No consultants are planned to be involved in the environmental institutional strengthening.
D. SCHEDULE
The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Books of PDV/PDS (licensed or permit discharge limits) comprise all information required for all the
facilities that are emission sources, and which are incorporated in the particular enterprise. That means,
PDV do not give a distinguishing characteristic of one particular source of emissions but they present
the emission characteristics of the particular enterprise as a whole. In the event any emission source
changes from owner, both parties should incorporate relevant changes into the composition of their
enterprises' sources. Consistent with the requirements books of PDV should be adjusted
correspondingly.
Besides the above mentioned rate of permit limits, the book of PDV incorporates a time-schedule of
required inspection (including emissions measurements) with regard to their concentration or other
parameters (load table). The enterprise's staff carries out the inspection. Natural environment
protection bodies could either undertake at regular intervals parallel inspections or participate in the
inspection procedures carried out by the enterprise. All data, obtained as a result of the inspection,
carried out by enterprise's staff in conformity to the adopted schedule, is recorded. Environment
protection bodies are not entitled to present the results of their check to the inspected enterprises.
Existing environmental regulations set up a fixed time interval to draw up a revised version of the PDV
(PDS) books - once in 5 (five) years. Rates of PDV (PDS) should be revised and adjusted in case the
equipment, processing procedures and type of fuel are undergoing changes. Basically, the above
mentioned rates(or norms) could be revised even every three months.



The result of this approach is that emission limits are laid down in the permit of every stack as a mass
flow of the pollutants in tons/year and grar s/second. These limits are per stack, not per boiler, because
more than one boiler can emit through the same stack. These limits and the tcmporarily allowed
emission limits will be used as reference situation for the current state of the environment.
Enterprises that are sources of environmental pollution have to pay environmental (emissions.
discharges, waste and etc.) fees. They are tc fill in corresponding forms: 2-TP (air) - (2-TH - B03,Iyx),
2-TP (water) - (2-TH - BOJX03), 2-TH (harmful waste) - (2-TH - TOKCHHHble oTXO0tbl). Data, that is
included in the above forms, reflect the reccrded information with regard to environmental pollution
and appropriate natural resources consumpt on.
Collection of data: If available computerized supervision system for collection, storage,
handling of
data as charts, statistics, historical values etc.
Other plants - Data is collected by operational staff once a week at each boiler plant
or during unusual situations as failures, irrational firing process if required.
Analyze of data:  Analyze of data is performed by the chief of production plants by visual review and
check of collected data. D)ata is filed in the operational register.
Reporting:        Normal procedure is that the report with filed operational data is sent to the
Production Department c nce a month. If the data diverge from the ordinary, the
report immediately is ser t to the chief of Technical Department for appropriate
measures.
Decisions:        The decision to take action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down etc. is
performed by the Technical Director Mr. A. Kazakov



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN NERUNGRI
A. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 1, 2 & 3
Replacement of underground and above the ground pipes
Installation of individual heat substations
Reconstruction of central heat substations
Cost                 Institutional             Comments
Responsibility          (e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase             Issue                                    Mitigating measure                             Install                install   Operate
Construction *   Public safety and    Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local administration.
nuisance           The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of the city and the                          Chief of Construction
Contractor assigned for the implementation works will develop and specify                    Department Mr V. Ilyin
the procedure for implementation of the works that will be included into the
contract. The implementation procedure will be approved by the city
administration and its corresponding departments.
*   Dust & Noise        Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
earprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens. etc.
*   Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
materials -non     dealers for recycle (specified in the hid documents). Concrete and other scrap
hazardous waste    material will be removed to approved deposits
materials (metal
scrap, concrete etec)
41



Construction *   Disposal ol solid    To identify if matcrials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-hatardous laboratory for identitication.
waste tnaterials   Removing and disposal of asbestos insulation materials will be handled by
(asbestos)         government approved and licensed companies and in compliance with
Russian legislation regarding handling of asbestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95
and GOST 12871-83E.
The contractor will take the followinig precautions/actions:
- The workers in the contaminated area will use personal safety
equipment, especially breath protection equipment and overalls;
- To prevent dispersion of asbestos, the workplace will be separated fiom
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will be encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
efficiency filter shall be placed in the outlet of the suction system to
prevent the dispersion of asbestos fibres.
- Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
decontamination unit shall be placed, where contaminated clothing is
removed and the workers may take shower.
- Supervision ot the works will be performed in order to prevent the
incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic lilm during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
Operation    *   Water leakage     Extended maintenance system to reduce leaks and spillage.                                              Chief of
Production
Department Mr.
A. Chumarin
42



B. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 1, 2 & 3
Replacement of underground and above the ground pipes
Installation of individual heat substations
Reconstruction of central heat substation
Cost               Respo sibilitv
Phase         What parameter is   Where                   flow                       When                   Why              Install     Operate    Install    Operate
to be monitored?    is the paranteier to be    is the parameter to be  is the parameter to be    Is the
monitored?             ,nonitoredl type of        monitored-frequency    parameter to
monitoring equiipment?    of measuiremenit or    be monitored
continuous?           (optional)?
Construction   Nuisance            At the construction area   Monitoring procedure for    During construction
implementation of the      period                                                         Chief of Construction
works and tender document                                                                 Departmcnt
Mr. V. Ilyin
Dust                At the construction and   Visually                 Dry periods daily basis
demolishing areas
Noise               Near the living area    Noise meters               During construction
Schools, hospitals,                               and demolishing
kindergartens, etc.                               activities; when local
residents issue
complainits
Disposal of non     At the construction and   Monitoring the tender    Each month
hazardous materials  demolishing areas,     documents requirements
(concrete, metal    central heat substations,
scrap,etc.)         replacement of pipes
areas
Disposal of         At the construction and   Monitoring the tender    When it requires, not
hazardous materials  demolishing areas,     documents and following    less than once a month
(asbestos)          deposits, dealers       up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
Operation     Water spillage       Central and individual    Visually, measurements  Daily basis                                                     Chief of Production
substations, pipelines in  and registration on water                                                              Department
tunnels and ducts.     content in the system and                                                                  Mr. A. Chumarin
water consumption
43






C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.     Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
Equipment is listed in annex 15 of the Project Implementation Plan
2.     Training/Study Tours
Technical training is discussed in Project Implementation Plan, annexes 3, Technical assistance
program and twinning program.
Training will be set up for operators and other specialists if the monitoring equipment and instruments
will be replaced. Duration of the training will be according to recommendation and requirements from
the supplier.
Training of appropriate staff will be performed to inform and learn about handling of asbestos waste
and if required of PCB in order to manage correct purchasing and monitoring of the contracts works
3.      Consultant Services
No consultants are planned to be involved in the environmental institutional strengthening.
D. SCHEDULE
The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Books of PDV/PDS (licensed or permit discharge limits) comprise all information required for all the
facilities that are emission sources, and which are incorporated in the particular enterprise. That means,
PDV do not give a distinguishing characteristic of one particular source of emissions but they present
the emission characteristics of the particular enterprise as a whole. In the event any emission source
changes from owner, both parties should incorporate relevant changes into the composition of their
enterprises' sources. Consistent with the requirements books of PDV should be adjusted
correspondingly.
Besides the above mentioned rate of permit limits, the book of PDV incorporates a time-schedule of
required inspection (including emissions measurements) with regard to their concentration or other
parameters (load table). The enterprise's staff carries out the inspection. Natural environment
protection bodies could either undertake at regular intervals parallel inspections or participate in the
inspection procedures carried out by the enterprise. All data, obtained as a result of the inspection,
carried out by enterprise's staff in conformity to the adopted schedule, is recorded. Environment
protection bodies are not entitled to present the results of their check to the inspected enterprises.
Existing environmental regulations set up a fixed time interval to draw up a revised version of the PDV
(PDS) books - once in 5 (five) years. Rates of PDV (PDS) should be revised and adjusted in case the
equipment, processing procedures and type of fuel are undergoing changes. Basically, the above
mentioned rates(or norms) could be revised even every three months.
The result of this approach is that emission limits are laid down in the permit of every stack as a mass
flow of the pollutants in tons/year and grams/second. These limits are per stack, not per boiler, because
more than one boiler can emit through the same stack. These limits and the temporarily allowed
emission limits will be used as reference situation for the current state of the environment.
45



Enterprises that are sources of environmentil pollution have to pay environmental (emissions,
discharges. waste and etc.) fees. They are to fill in corresponding forms: 2-TP (air) - (2-TB - B03]yx).
2-TP (water) - (2-TH - BORX03), 2-TH (harmful waste) - (2-TFI - TOKCilHbIe OTXO0b1). Data, that is
included in the above forms, reflect the recorded information with regard to environmental pollution
and appropriate natural resources consumption.
Collection of data: If available computerized supervision system for collection, storage,
handling of
data as charts, statistics, historical values etc.
Other plants - Data is collected by operational staff once a week at each boiler plant
or during unusual situations as failures, irrational firing process if required.
Analyze of data:  Analyze of data is performed by the chief of production plants by visual review and
check of collected data. Data is filed in the operational register.
Reporting:        Normal procedure is thai the report with filed operational data is sent to the
Production Department once a month. If the data diverge from the ordinary, the
report immediately is sent to the chief of Technical Department for appropriate
measures.
Decisions:        The decision to take action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down etc. is
performed by the Technical Director Mr. A. Rusakov.



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN SYZRAN
A. MITIGATION PLAN for COMPONENT 1, 2 & 3
Installation of underground and above the ground pipelines.
Reconstruction of boiler houses.
Cost                 Institutional            Comments
Responsibility          (e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase             Issue                                   Mitigating measure                            Install                 install   Operate
Construction *   Public safety and    Observe special rules and regulations that are set up by local administration.
nuisance           The District Heating & Heating Networks Company of the city and the                         Chief of Construction
Contractor assigned for the implementation works will develop and specify                   Department of Heating
the procedure for implementation of the works that will be included into the                Networks
contract. The implementation procedure will be approved by the city                         Mr. E.B. Kasianov
administration and its corresponding departments.
*   Dust & Noise       Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall conform to
noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be provided with
earprotection. Activities regarding track movements, transportation ways
will be properly planned. avoiding schools, kindergartens, etc.
*   Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at authorized
materials -non     dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents). Concrete and other scrap
hazardous waste    material will be removed to approved deposits
materials (metal
scrap, concrete. etc)
47



Construction *   Disposal of solid    To identify if materials contain asbestos a sample will be send to a
materials-hazardous laboratory for identification.
waste materials    Removing and disposal of asbestos insulation materials will be handled by
(asbestos)         government approved and licensed companies and in compliance with
Russian legislation regarding handling of asbestos stated in SNIP 2.03.09-95
and GOST 12871-83E.
The contractor will take the following precautions/actions:
- The workers in the contaminated area will tuse personial safety
equipment, especially breath protection equipment and overalls;
- To prevent dispersion of asbestos, the workplace will be separated from
the non contaminated areas and changing rooms etc. The working area
will be encapsulated (the containment) and the air pressure inside the
containment will be lowered by installing suction systems. A high
efficiency filter shall be placed in the outlet of the suction system to
prevent the dispersion oi asbestos fibres.
- Between the containment and the non contaminated area a
decontamination unit shall be placed, where contaminated clothing is
removed and the workers may take shower.
- Supervision of the works will be performed in order to prevent the
incomplete/unsafe removal of asbestos.
The waste will be packed into plastic film during transportation and disposal.
The production of new pipe insulation will be in accordance with the
requirements specified in bid documents. Asbestos insulation or
PUR-insulation, which is blown with CFC or HCFC, will not be
acceptable.
48



Operation                               Emissions to the air                                             NOx
Low NOx                           Chief of
bumers                            Production
will be                           Depament of
used                              Heating
when                              Networks
*   Water leakage                                                    replaced *                         Mr.
S02                               E.B.Kasianov
Use of oil
with low
*   Fuel leakage                                                     S content
and/or
switch of
*   Fuel spillage                                                    fuel from
mazout
and coal
to natural
gas
CO
extended
maintenan
ce of
bumers;
CO2
maximize
fuel
savings
Extended
use of
closed
water
systems
with
water
leakage
detectors.
Exte' and
ed
mai ntenan
ce
measures
as more
frequent
tightening
the joints,
replaceme                                              49
nt of
gaskets,
etc



* The World Bank requirements for specific emissions using natural gas burners in thermal power plantis are 85 g NOx/GJ
and the European Unit limit are 100 g NOx/GJ. T he European limit is soon expected to he loweered to ± 50 g NOx/GJ.
5()



B. MONITORING PLAN for COMPONENT 1, 2 & 3
Installation of underground and above the ground pipelines.
Reconstruction of boiler houses
Cost               Responsibilit
Phase         What parameter is    Where                    flow                        When                   Why               tnstall     Operate      Install    Operate
to be tmoniiored?   Is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be     is the parameter to be    Is the
monitored?             mnonitored! rvpe of          monitored-frequeency   parameter to
monitorinig equipment?     of measurement or       be monitored
continuous?            (optional)?
Construction   Nuisance             At the construction area   Monitoring procedure for    During construction
implementation of the      period                                                           Chief of Constr-uctioln
works and tender document                                                                   Department of Heating
Networks
Dust                 At the construction and   Visually                  Dry periods daily basis                                          Mr. E.B. Kasianov
demolishing areas
Noise                Near the living area,   Noise meters                During construction
Schools, hospitals,                                 and demolishing
kindergartens, etc.                                 activities; when local
residents issue
complaints
Disposal of non      At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     Each month
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents requirements
(concrete, metal     central heat substations,
scrap,etc.)         replacement of pipes
areas
Disposal of          At the construction and   Monitoring the tender     When it requires, not
hazardous materials   demolishing areas,     documents and following     less than once a month
(asbestos)           deposits, dealers       up the contract require-
ments. Double check the
license.
51



Operation      SO,                   In the stack             SO2 - niultitlunction       Once a week                                                        Chief ol' Production
chemical gas analyzer in all                                                                   Department ofl Heating
plants measuring of change                                                                     Networks
of fuel composition.                                                                           Mr. E.B.Kasiariov
NO,                   In the stack             NO, - multil'unctioni       Daily basis
chemical gas analyzer in all
plants, Ibloowing up the
contract requirements for
low Nox burners.
Water & Fuel          Fuel storage plants,     Visually, measurements on    Daily basis
spillage              water treatment plants,    water and fuel amounts in
production plants       the system.
52



C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.     Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
Equipment is listed in annex 15 of the Project Implementation Plan
2.     Training/Study Tours
Technical training is discussed in Project Implementation Plan, annexes 3, Technical assistance
program and twinning program.
Training will be set up for operators and other specialists if the monitoring equipment and instruments
will be replaced. Duration of the training will be according to recommendation and requirements from
the supplier.
Training of appropriate staff will be performed to inform and learn about handling of asbestos waste
and if required of PCB in order to manage correct purchasing and monitoring of the contracts works
3.     Consultant Services
No consultants are planned to be involved in the environmental institutional strengthening.
D. SCHEDULE
The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Books of PDV/PDS (licensed or permit discharge limits) comprise all information required for all the
facilities that are emission sources, and which are incorporated in the particular enterprise. That means,
PDV do not give a distinguishing characteristic of one particular source of emissions but they present
the emission characteristics of the particular enterprise as a whole. In the event any emission source
changes from owner, both parties should incorporate relevant changes into the composition of their
enterprises' sources. Consistent with the requirements books of PDV should be adjusted
correspondingly.
Besides the above mentioned rate of permit limits, the book of PDV incorporates a time-schedule of
required inspection (including emissions measurements) with regard to their concentration or other
parameters (load table). The enterprise's staff carries out the inspection. Natural environment
protection bodies could either undertake at regular intervals parallel inspections or participate in the
inspection procedures carried out by the enterprise. All data, obtained as a result of the inspection,
carried out by enterprise's staff in conformity to the adopted schedule, is recorded. Environment
protection bodies are not entitled to present the results of their check to the inspected enterprises.
Existing environmental regulations set up a fixed time interval to draw up a revised version of the PDV
(PDS) books - once in 5 (five) years. Rates of PDV (PDS) should be revised and adjusted in case the
equipment, processing procedures and type of fuel are undergoing changes. Basically, the above
mentioned rates(or norms) could be revised even every three months.
The result of this approach is that emission limits are laid down in the permit of every stack as a mass
flow of the pollutants in tons/year and grams/second. These limits are per stack, not per boiler, because
more than one boiler can emit through the same stack. These limits and the temporarily allowed
emission limits will be used as reference situation for the current state of the environment.
53



Enterprises that are sources of environmenial pollution have to pay environmental (emissions.
discharges. waste and etc.) fees. They are to fill in corresponding forms: 2-TP (air) - (2-TI - Bo3TlyX),
2-TP (water) - (2-TI - BOtX03). 2-TH (harmful waste) - (2-Tn - TOKCIHHble OTXO3bI). Data. that is
included in the above forms, reflect the rec )rded information with regard to environmental pollution
and appropriate natural resources consump :ion.
Collection of data: If available computerized supervision system for collection, storage,
handling of
data as charts, statistics. historical values etc.
Other plants - Data is collected by operational staff once a week at each boiler plant
or during unusual situations as failures, irrational firing process if required.
Analyze of data:  Analyze of data is perfo--med by the chief of production plants by visual review and
check of collected data. Data is filed in the operational register.
Reporting:        Normal procedure is that the report with filed operational data is sent to the
Production Department once a month. If the data diverge from the ordinary, the
report immediately is sent to the chief of Technical Department for appropriate
measures.
Decisions:        The decision to take act on, to authorize expenditures, to shut down etc. is
performed by the Technical Director Mr E.B. Kasianov.
54



