Report No. PID5821
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Municipal Heating Project
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       RUPE38551
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              State Committee of Housing and
Construction Policy
(Gosstroi)
Mr. Anvar Shamuzafarov, Chairman
Stroiteley 8, Block 2
Moscow, Russian Federation
Central Project Development
Unit:                            Ms. Marina
Velikanova, Project Director
6, Tverskoy boulevard, Moscow 103009,
Russia
Tel: +7-095-232-6521
Fax: +7-095-290-1987
Email: marina.velikanova@cpiu.org.ru
Environment Category             B
Date Initial PID Prepared        December 31, 1997
Date This PID Prepared           September 29, 2000
Appraisal Date                   June 29, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 1, 2001
Sector Background
1.      Centralized or district heating has developed as the primary method for
household heating in the Russian Federation. Approximately 80 percent of the
population live in premises that are equipped with hot-water radiator heating
systems where the heat is supplied from an external source. Nationwide, the
system has a heat supply capacity of 800,000 MW, of which approximately
100,000 MW comes from combined heat and power (CHP) plants. The length of the
supply network is estimated at 160,000 km.
2.      In general, the district heating systems are owned by the municipalities
and operated as a municipal service by departments of the local governments.
The costs associated with these systems, however, are one of the major items
in municipal budgets. High system operating costs, combined with low tariffs
and low collection rates, require large municipalities to spend several
million dollars each year in subsidizing heating services (about 5t of the GDP
on national level). Moreover, despite these substantial outlays, the quality
of heat delivered is generally poor, with many households obliged to either
supplement their heating with individual space heaters, or to open windows in
order to keep their dwellings at comfortable temperatures.



3.      In order to assist municipalities in reducing this budget burden, and at
the same time provide a better quality of heat supply to households, the
Government has asked the World Bank to consider financing a municipal heating
project.
Objectives
4.      The overall objective of the Municipal Heating Project is to alleviate
the financial burden on municipal governments associated with the supply of
district heating to the local population by (i) improving the operating
efficiency of district heating systems through investments to save energy and
reduce heat losses; (ii) promoting sound cost recovery policies and commercial
practices; and (iii) supporting government efforts to improve the cost-
effectiveness of subsidy programs through better targeting and delivery of
subsidies to low-income households.
Project Description
The Project will finance investments in the municipal heating systems of 8-9
cities that are essential for maintaining and improving the operation of these
heating systems. At present, projects in 5 cities have been appraised: Dubna,
Kostroma, Mytishi, Nerungri and Syzran. However, additional cities are in the
process of completing project preparation, and will be included in the loan
provided they are able to meet all conditions for participation in the project
prior to a defined cut-off date. The following paragraphs briefly describe
the types of investments to be financed.
New Investments in Heat Supply Systems: Components include boilers, boiler
rehabilitation, transmission network, interconnection network, distribution
networks, and upgrading of central and individual substations.
Technical Assistance in Procurement, Engineering and Supervision: Consultants
will be selected to assist the municipalities in carrying out procurement in
accordance with Bank guidelines. In addition, the consultants will assist the
Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) and the cities in monitoring and
supervising construction to ensure that the quality of equipment and services
meet adequate standards.
Central Project Implementation Unit: The project will finance the recurrent
incremental costs of the CPIU including but not limited to salaries of staff,
consultants, travel expenditures, and office equipment and supplies.
Other Technical Assistance: The project will also finance consultants to
carry out monitoring of the credit-worthiness of participating cities, to
undertake annual audits of the project accounts, and to carry out selected
studies related to the long term development and viability of the municipal
heating sector.
Policy reforms supported by the project would focus on improving the financial
viability of the municipal heating enterprises through improved tariff setting
procedures and better collections performance. These measures are intended to
improve cash flow and internal funds generation, thereby reducing the level of
financial support required from the municipal governments. In addition,
policy reforms would be aimed at shifting from cross-the-board subsidies for
household customers to an improved system of targeting and delivery of
subsidies to low-income population, with a view to providing better support
for low-income households while at the same time reducing the overall subsidy
burden.
Financing
The total cost of the project is estimated at $109.7 million equivalent. An
IBRD loan of $US 70.0 million would be provided to finance equipment and
- 2 -



technical assistance procured in accordance with competitive procurement
procedures. The remaining $US 39.7 million would be financed by the municipal
administrations in participating cities, and by the Ministry of Finance.
Implementation
Implementation of the project would be the primary responsibility of a Central
Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) established within the National Foundation
for Housing Reform. The CPIU would work together with local project
management units in participating cities.
Project Benefits
Benefits of the project-financed investments include: (i) extension of the
life of heating network assets; (ii) reduced fuel consumption through more
efficient equipment and reduced losses; (iii) more efficient delivery of heat
through better temperature controls and upgrading of substations; (iv)
reduced operation and maintenance costs, as well as avoided investment in
pipes and substations;    (v) improved quality of heating services;   and (vi)
ultimately lower heating costs to consumers and lower levels of heating-
related costs to be paid by municipalities. Benefits related to the
institutional and policy initiatives include improved targeting and delivery
of subsidies to low-income households, and reductions in the overall cost of
subsidies paid by municipal budgets.
Sustainability
Sustainability of the project depends on (i) improvements in the financial
viability of the heating enterprises; and (ii) achieving political support
for the project from the heating customers, the local population and the
municipal administration. Financial viability of the heating enterprises is
being addressed through requirements for substantial up-front actions on
improved cost recovery and cash collections, and through institutional changes
aimed at increasing the commercial orientation of the heating companies.
Further, twinning arrangement between all or some of the district heating
companies and western district heating companies are being prepared. To
achieve support from the customers, the population, and the municipal
administration, social surveys are being performed in several of the cities to
identify the key concerns of the local population, and to better advise on
useful changes in the system of subsidizing low-income households..
Risks
The project is complex, covering a number of different types of small
investments in 8-9 different cities, none of which have significant experience
with World Bank projects. Efficient management of procurement, disbursements
and project financial management will require significant oversight, and also
a high level of co-operation among the cities and willingness to subordinate
individual interests to the interests of the project as a whole. A number of
mitigation measures have been taken to address implementation risks.
Technical specifications and draft tender documents for initial procurement
are being prepared and will be ready for circulation at the time of Board
submission. A central PIU, already experienced in implementation of Bank
projects, will handle procurement, disbursement and accounting activities for
all cities. In addition, the CPIU staff have been closely involved with the
cities during the project preparation stage and are fully familiar with the
project components, issues and core team members.
The ability of the heating companies to sustain a level of cash collections
sufficient to cover local costs and ensure project sustainability is also a
key risk factor. Expectations of low cost energy are an integral part of the
Russian culture, and political opposition to the program of increased cost
-3 -



recovery may de-rail attempts to improve the finances of the heating
enterprises. Risk mitigation measures include substantial up-front action by
the municipalities with respect to increasing cost recovery and improving cash
collections. Measures are also being taken to ensure that low-income families
are protected from unaffordable increases in tariffs, in order not to
undermine political support for the project and the associated reforms.
Finally, there is a risk that the Federal Government's commitment to reforms
in housing and municipal utilities (including increased cost recovery from
households, commercialization of municipal service enterprises, and a shift
from universal to targeted subsidies) will falter, which would strengthen the
position of those customers and municipal officials who oppose the reforms.
This risk has been mitigated insofar as possible by incorporating related
conditionalities into adjustment lending and by selecting cities based on
their ongoing commitment to implementing reforms.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
Lessons learned from other Bank-financed DH related projects under
implementation in Poland, Estonia, Latvia, China, Ukraine, etc. include the
findings that: (a) strong project ownership and advanced preparation of
project components is necessary for timely implementation; (b) decentralized
project management (including management of procurement) is more effective
than centralized implementation arrangements; (c) the relationship between
prices and incomes changes rapidly in countries in transition and the heating
service which appears largely unaffordable will become easier to afford in
relatively short period of time. Rising incomes also affect the local costs,
which should not be underestimated, (d) end-user efficiency improvements,
which initially appear difficult to support due to building ownership and
affordability reasons, may be possible to support on a pilot level, and (e)
strong support from municipalities is needed to resolve collections and
payment issues
Poverty Category
Not Applicable
Environmental Aspects
The DH rehabilitation and energy efficiency components focus directly on the
improvement in the use of energy, reduction of wastage of fresh water in DH
systems, and improvements in water treatment. The impacts of these projects
are generally positive; potential adverse impacts are highly localized and are
being addressed through an environmental mitigation plan. The project is
classified as category "B". (See Annex)
Program Objective Categories
The project is classified under the category of PY/UY - Other Power & Energy
Conversion/Other Urban Development, and complements the Bank's program
objective categories relating to environmental protection and private sector
development.
Contact Point:
Bjorn Hamso, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-1065
Fax No.:         (202) 477-8518
-4 -



Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 6, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental Category: B
1.      The municipal heating rehabilitation and energy efficiency components
focus directly on the improvement in the use of energy, reduction of wastage
of fresh water in heating systems, and improvements in water treatment. The
potential impacts from these investments are generally positive. Environmental
issues are principally restricted to the selection of thermal insulation
materials and the disposal of waste, possibly asbestos. The boilers to be
rehabilitated would support the use of natural gas. Potential adverse impacts
would be highly localized and could be effectively addressed through an
environmental mitigation plan.
2.      An environmental review has been prepared in conjunction with the
feasibility studies, and includes preparation of an environmental mitigation
plan. Environmental analysis was focused on three main issues: one relating
to emissions and the potential to reduce emissions by improving the efficiency
of heat production and consumption; a second relating to the mitigation of
environmental impacts during construction (e.g. asbestos, dust, noise, public
safety); and a third relating to the social impacts (household income,
affordability, social protection) associated with increased cost recovery for
municipal services.
-6-



