Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4601 RU
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Heating Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 8, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4601 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 2002, between the RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Gosstroi" means the Borrower’s State Committee for Construction and Housing 
and Communal Complex, or any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Local Project Account" means the account to be opened by each Participating 
City and referred to in paragraph 3 (i) of Part C of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(c)
"LPMU" means the local sub-project management unit to be opened by each 
Participating City and referred to in paragraph 3 (k) of Part C of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(d)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor or 
successors thereto;
(e)
"NFHR" means the National Foundation of Housing Reform, a legal entity 
organized and established in the form of a noncommercial foundation, pursuant to the 
Borrower’s law ‘On Non-Commercial Organizations’, dated January 12, 1996, and operating on 
the basis of its charter, as revised on September 13, 1999, registered by Moscow City 
Government on July 6, 1995 (Registration No. 2385-1), and having a Board of Supervisors 
whose members include representatives of the MOF, Ministry of Economic Development and 
Trade and Gosstroi;
(f)
"Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the 
NFHR on November 9, 2000, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project 
Page  3
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)
"Participating City" means any city or municipality of the Borrower which may 
from time to time have been selected by the Borrower pursuant to Part B of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement;
(h) 
"Participating Subject of the Borrower" means any administrative  subdivision of 
the Borrower which is a subject of the Russian Federation, to which any Participating City is 
legally subject under the laws of the Borrower, which may from time to time have been selected 
by the Borrower pursuant to Part B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(i) 
"Participating District Heating Enterprise" means the municipal unitary 
enterprise or enterprise of another legal form  providing district heating services in the 
Participating City, owned and operated by the Participating City;
(j)
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement between the MOF 
and Gosstroi, and the NFHR, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Implementation Agreement;
(k) 
"Project Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators developed by the 
Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor and evaluate, on ongoing basis, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of Project objectives, referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and set forth in the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"PMR" means the project management report referred to in Section 4.01 (d) (ii) 
of this Agreement, and prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(n)
"Sub-projects" means specific projects designed to rehabilitate and improve the 
operating efficiency of existing municipal district heating networks, and which are to be carried 
out by the Participating Cities, with the involvement of the Participating District Heating 
Enterprises, utilizing the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans; and "Sub-project" means each and 
any such sub-project;
(o)
"Sub-Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreements between the 
Participating Cities and the respective Participating District Heating Enterprises, approved by 
Gosstroi, referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Part A of Schedule 7  to this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Sub-Project Implementation Agreements; and Sub-Project Implementation 
Agreement means each and any such agreement;
(p)
"Subsidiary Loans" means loans made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating Cities for the Sub-projects, and referred to in 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means each and any such loan; and
(q)
"Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements" means the agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower, Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating 
Page  4
Cities pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement" means each and 
any such agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the "Project implementation 
entity" shall be deemed as a reference to the NFHR.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty five million Dollars 
($85,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a 
Participating City under a Subsidiary Loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account 
is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, services and incremental operating costs required for Parts B and C 
of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of the 
said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  5
(
i
)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, 
but excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(
i
i
)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(
i
v
)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
commercial, engineering, district heating, environmental, and other technical practices, shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, and shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for purposes 
of Part A of the Project:
(a)
relend, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories  
(1), (2)  and (3)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to the 
Participating Cities the amount of financing (the Subsidiary Loans) required by the Participating 
Cities in respect of their respective Sub-projects, under loan agreements (the Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements) to be entered into among the Borrower, represented by the MOF and 
Gosstroi, and each such Participating City, with the guarantee of a Participating Subject of the 
Borrower, in accordance with the procedures, eligibility criteria, and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitation, the procedures, eligibility criteria, and 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements in such 
a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan and 
Guarantee Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the MOF and Gosstroi shall, in 
order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the Project, enter into a project implementation 
agreement (the Project Implementation Agreement) with the NFHR, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include, but not be limited to, the 
following:
(a)
scope of responsibilities and description of activities to be carried out by the 
NFHR during the execution of the Project, consistent with paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
obligation of the NFHR during the execution of the Project to provide resources 
and appoint qualified staff and engage consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
MOF and Gosstroi and Bank;
(c)
basis of payments to the NFHR; and
Page  7
(d)
reporting, accounting and auditing requirements.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of goods, 
works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial position and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheet, 
statements of sources and uses of funds, and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts, and report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the NFHR to:
Page  8
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until twelve 
(12) months following Project completion; and 
 (iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors on 
the project management reports (the PMRs) submitted during such fiscal 
year, and as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and  
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (ii) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
Page  9
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the NFHR to 
carry out the Project; or
(b)
the NFHR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely the events specified in Section 5.01 (a) or (b) of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and NFHR; and
(b)
the Borrower, Participating Cities and Participating Subjects of the Borrower, 
and Participating District Heating Enterprises have executed Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements, and related Sub-Project Implementation Agreements in respect of a minimum of 
four (4) Sub-projects, and all conditions to the effectiveness of such Subsidiary Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements and Sub-Project Implementation Agreements have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the MOF and Gosstroi, and NFHR, and is legally binding upon the MOF and Gosstroi, and 
NFHR in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements and related Sub-Project 
Implementation Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement have been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Participating City and respective Participating District Heating 
Enterprises.
Page  10
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower 
responsible for international economic affairs is designated as representative of the Borrower  for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street, 9
103009 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
Facsimile:
112008
(7-095) 915-5887
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
 and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1 202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By
/s/  Yuri Ushakov
Page  11
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Johannes F. Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
    % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
To be Financed
(1)
Works
         300,000
75%
(2)
Goods, including
    67,550,000
100% of foreign
local transportation
expenditures, 100%
and related insurance
of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services:
(a) for Part A of the 
     4,100,000
100%
Project
(b) for Part B of the 
     2,500,000
100%
Project
(4)
Incremental
     2,900,000
100%
Operating Costs
(5)
Fee
        850,000
Amount due 
pursuant to Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
Page  12
(6)
Unallocated
6,800,000
TOTAL
   85,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental expenses 
incurred by the NFHR under Part C of the Project on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the cost of: (a) transportation and travel; (b) training and 
attendance of study tours, workshops, conferences and seminars; (c) communication; (d) office 
goods and supplies; (e) maintenance of office equipment and facilities; (f) rent and utilities; (g) 
NFHR consultants’ services and auditing services; and (h) NFHR staff salaries; provided, 
however, that the above expenditures shall be set forth in approved annual budgets of the NFHR, 
adopted pursuant to the Project Implementation Agreement and the Operating Manual.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be made in 
respect of Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided 
by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iv) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (v) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is
 to alleviate financial burden on selected municipal 
authorities of the Borrower associated with their supply of district heating to local population by 
(a) improving the operating efficiency of the district heating networks, (b) promoting sound cost 
recovery policies and commercial practices, and (c) supporting government efforts to improve 
the cost-effectiveness of subsidy programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  13
Part A
: District Heating System Rehabilitation
The carrying out of Sub-projects for the rehabilitation of the existing district heating 
systems owned by the Participating Cities and operated by the Participating District Heating 
Enterprises, through the financing of goods, works  and services.
Part B
: Sector Development Support
Development of the district heating and communal services sector policies and strategies 
through the financing of services and research in the areas such as pricing and regulation, sector 
restructuring, needed infrastructure investment, and improvement of the effectiveness and 
efficiency of social support programs in the housing and communal services area.
Part C
: Project Management and Implementation Support
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, including procurement 
related activities, design and implementation of a system of financial management and 
accounting, preparation of the accounts and financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, audit of the accounts and financial statements referred to above, and institutional 
strengthening of the NFHR to manage and implement the Project, through the financing of 
incremental operating costs, including external auditing services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars
)
*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2006
through November 15, 2017
3,540,000
On May 15, 2018
3,580,000
Page  14
____________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Sections  
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works, including those under supply and install contracts, shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods, including those under supply and install contracts, and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works and supply and installation contracts estimated to cost 
$5,000,000 equivalent or more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  15
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract procured under the International Competitive Bidding 
procedures under Part B hereof and National Competitive Bidding procedures under Part C.1 
hereof, the first two contracts procured under the International Shopping procedures under Part 
C.2 hereof, and the first two contracts procured under the National Shopping Procedures under 
Part C.3 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  16
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultants Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultants Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
2.
The provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants Guidelines shall apply to contracts 
for consultants’ services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditors, design and preparation of bidding documents, and supervision of 
building construction or equipment installation contracts, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services related to activities under Parts B and C of the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultants Guidelines, may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
Page  17
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
.
(a) The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators (the Project Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators) set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 5, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall, through the NFHR, 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about 
April 30, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the preceding year, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date.  
(c)
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall review with the 
Bank, by May 30, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 1, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
Gosstroi
.
Gosstroi shall, with the assistance of the NFHR, be responsible for the overall 
direction  and strategic oversight of the Project, monitoring the carrying out of the Project and 
achievement of Project objectives.
3.
MOF
.
The MOF shall be responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements.
Page  18
4.
NFHR
.
The NFHR shall be responsible for day-to-day Project administration, 
management and coordination, including Project-related financial management, accounting, 
procurement, disbursement, engagement of outside auditors and preparation of appropriate 
auditing reports and their dissemination, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports 
with respect to the Project. 
5.
Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities
.
The Borrower shall 
ensure that the Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities shall be 
responsible for setting appropriate tariff policies related to the Participating District Heating 
Enterprises, and otherwise ensuring that the Participating District Heating Enterprises’ financial 
positions are satisfactory, and for providing financial and other guarantees related to the 
Sub-projects.
Annex 
to
SCHEDULE 5
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
1.
During each year of Project implementation, district heating charges are established and 
maintained at levels which: (a) allow each Participating District Heating Enterprise to cover all 
prudently incurred costs of operations, including local costs of the Sub-project and a reasonable 
level of profitability; (b) fully cover depreciation on revalued assets.  During each year of Project 
implementation, the transfers from the Participating Cities to the Participating District Heating 
Enterprises take into account amounts not invoiced by the Participating District Heating 
Enterprise to its household customers.
2.
The percentage of full cost recovery district heating charges paid by households in each 
Participating City are not less than 80% in year 2001, 90% in year 2002, and 100% in year 2003 
and thereafter. 
3.
The average collection ratio in the communal heating sector of the Participating Cities 
(i.e., the ratio of collected operating revenues to total billings) increase from a minimum level of 
seventy percent (70%) in year 2000 to seventy five percent (75%) in year 2001, eighty percent 
(80%) in year 2002, eighty five percent (85%) in year 2003, and ninety five percent (95%) in 
year 2004.
4.
The average cash collection ratio in the communal heating sector of the Participating 
Cities (i.e., the cash collection ratio of cash collections to total collected operating revenues) 
increase to at least sixty percent (60%) in year 2001, seventy percent (70%) in year 2002, eighty 
five percent (85%) in year 2003, and one hundred percent (100%) in year 2004 and thereafter.
5.
At the completion of the Project, quality of heat and hot water services has increased 
significantly, and the energy efficiency of the Participating District Heating Enterprise has 
improved significantly compared to base-line figures prior to Project implementation.
Page  19
6.
By the time of Project completion, the operating costs of the Participating District 
Heating Enterprises have decreased, in comparable inflation-adjusted prices and under 
comparable conditions, and such cost decrease will be reflected in the related district heating 
charges.
7.
During the Project, the Participating Cities will significantly improve targeting of 
heating subsidies to the low-income households, as a part of their housing allowance programs or 
successor programs.
8.
At the completion of the Project, funds spent by each Participating City to support 
municipal heating services (including operating losses of the Participating District heating 
Enterprises and subsidies with respect to the heating costs of low income households) will 
decrease, in comparable inflation-adjusted prices and under comparable conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  20
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  21
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion 
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule 
shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria
and Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans
Part A
: Procedures
1.
No expenditures for goods, works and services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-project and related 
Subsidiary Loan shall have been approved by the Bank, and a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Agreement has been executed among the MOF and Gosstroi, Participating Subject of the 
Borrower and Participating City in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Schedule 7.
2.
When presenting a proposed Subsidiary Loan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower, 
through the MOF and Gosstroi, shall furnish to the Bank, in a form satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)
a draft Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement;
(b)
an independent assessment of the credit-worthiness of the Participating City, 
prepared in accordance with the terms of reference satisfactory to the MOF and Bank; 
(c)
a draft Sub-Project Implementation Agreement, which shall define the technical 
and operational rights and responsibilities of the Participating City and Participating District 
Heating Enterprise under the proposed Sub-Project;
Page  22
(d)
a description of the proposed Participating District Heating Enterprise which 
would be involved in the proposed Sub-project implementation, including its legal status and 
ownership information, and a description of the existing service agreement or any other 
operational agreement between the Participating City and the Participating District Heating 
Enterprise governing the Participating District Heating Enterprise’s district heating system 
operational responsibilities; 
(e)
a feasibility and appraisal report describing the institutional, legal and 
regulatory, technical, economic, financial, operational, procurement, and environmental aspects 
of the proposed Sub-project; 
(f)
draft procurement (tender) documents covering the first year of planned 
procurement activities; and 
(g)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.
The MOF and Gosstroi,  Participating Subject of the Borrower, and Participating City 
may execute the draft Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement referred to in paragraph 2 (a) 
of Part A of this Schedule 7, and giving the MOF and Gosstroi rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, and containing, inter
alia
,
the terms and conditions set 
forth in Part C of this Schedule 7, following the Bank’s positive appraisal of the technical, 
economic and financial aspects of the proposed Sub-Projects. The right of the Sub-borrower to 
make withdrawals for Sub-loans, and, respectively, the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be contingent upon the Bank’s final approval of the 
Sub-Project, which shall be issued only upon the receipt by the Bank of satisfactory procurement 
documents for the Sub-project, referred to in paragraph 2 (f) above.
4.
Sub-loan and Guarantee Agreements and all related documents with respect to at least 
$64,000,000 of Sub-Loans shall be executed on or before December 31, 2001, and all Sub-Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements and all related documents with respect to all remaining Sub-Loans 
shall be executed on or before March 31, 2002.
Part B:
Eligibility and Selection Criteria
1.
The Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities shall be selected 
based on the receipt by the MOF and Gosstroi of:
(a)
a letter of commitment satisfactory to the MOF and Gosstroi, and the Bank, and 
executed by an authorized official of the proposed Participating Subject of the Borrower and 
Participating City; 
(b)
satisfactory feasibility and appraisal report covering institutional, legal and 
regulatory, technical, economic, financial, operational, procurement, and environmental aspects 
of the proposed Sub-project;
(c)
satisfactory report on the credit-worthiness of the Participating City, including 
confirmation that there are no legal barriers to its borrowing for the proposed Sub-Project; and 
(d)
confirmation that the Participating City is in compliance with the minimum 
financial criteria established as prior conditions of participation, including: 
Page  23
(i)
compliance with current federal standards regarding the share of district 
heating service charges to be paid by the population; 
(ii) 
average district heating service charges established at a level that is 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) 
collections in cash and/or direct offsets sufficient to cover the full costs of 
personnel, fuel and heat purchases of the heating enterprises.
2.
Sub-projects shall be selected based on their expected impact on the rehabilitation of and 
operating efficiency of existing district heating systems (and, if appropriate, their impact on 
energy efficiency of apartment buildings connected to such systems), and their technical, 
economic, financial and commercially viability.
Part C
: Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements
1.
Each Subsidiary Loan shall be made under a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement 
entered into by the MOF and Gosstroi, Participating City and Participating Subject of the 
Borrower, and shall include a repayment guarantee by the Participating Subject of the Borrower.
2.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall provide that the Subsidiary Loan 
shall: 
(a)
be denominated and be repayable (principal and interest) in Dollars equivalent;
(b)
be repayable in fifteen (15) years, including a grace period of up to five (5) 
years;
(c)
carry an interest rate on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time equal to the interest rate specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, plus a spread of two percent (2%), a commitment charge on the amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time equal to the percentage of the commitment 
charge paid by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and a fee 
equal to the fee specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(d)
be equal to not less than $3,000,000.
3.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall require, inter
alia
,
that the 
Participating City and Participating Subject of the Borrower, as applicable, and, when 
appropriate, that the Participating District Heating Enterprise, under the terms of a Sub-Project 
Implementation Agreement with the Participating City: 
(a)
furnish evidence acceptable to the MOF and Gosstroi that the Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreement has been executed, and is valid and legally binding upon, the 
Participating Subject of the Borrower and Participating City, as applicable;
(b)
carry out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers, and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, environmental, 
Page  24
commercial and managerial standards;
(c)
implement, within a specifically described time frame, financial, accounting and 
commercial systems to allow the Participating City to maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and financial status of the 
Participating City and the Participating District Heating Enterprise, and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project;
(d)
have the records, accounts and financial statements related to the Sub-project for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors satisfactory to the MOF and Gosstroi, and the Bank, and furnish to the 
MOF and Gosstroi not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year certified copies of 
the financial statements for such year so audited and the report of such audit by the auditors of 
such scope and such detail as the MOF and Gosstroi, and the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(e)
procure the goods, works and services to be financed by the Subsidiary Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and to use such goods, works 
and services exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(f)
allow the MOF and Gosstroi, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, and/or the NFHR, to inspect such goods and the sites, works, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents related to the Sub-project;
(g)
take out and maintain, or, when applicable, ensure that third parties receiving 
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan maintain, with responsible insurers 
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice, including insurance covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made to replace or repair such goods;
(h)
assume the foreign exchange risk between the currency of the Sub-loan and  
currency of the Borrower;
(i)
open, by the date on which the Participating City shall enter into the Subsidiary 
Loan and Guarantee Agreement, and thereafter maintain, a separate account (the Local Project 
Account) in a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the MOF and Gosstroi, 
including protection against set-off, seizure, or attachment, and deposit and maintain in such 
Local Project Account, during the life of the Sub-project, an amount sufficient to pay for the 
Participating City’s co-financing share of the total Sub-project related expenditures estimated to 
be required during the following three (3) months;
(j)
utilize the amounts deposited into the said Local Project Account exclusively to 
finance the Sub-project;
(k)
establish and maintain, with adequate membership, staff and other resources, a 
local project management unit (the LPMU) with the responsibilities for the day-to-day 
coordination and execution of the Sub-project;
Page  25
(l)
(i)
ensure that for each of the Participating District Heating Enterprise’s 
fiscal years during Sub-project implementation, the Participating District 
Heating Enterprise’s collected operating revenues are sufficient to meet 
the Participating District Heating Enterprise’s operational expenses, 
adequate maintenance expenses, and other Sub-project related expenses 
for that fiscal year, and provide a reasonable level of return on 
investment;
(ii)
ensure that for each of the Participating District Heating Enterprise, the 
average ratio of collected operating revenues to total billings is not less 
than seventy five percent (75%) in year 2001, eighty percent (80%) in 
year 2002, eighty five percent (85%) in year 2003, ninety percent (90%) 
in year 2004, and ninety five (95%) percent in year 2005, and thereafter;
(iii)
ensure that each Participating District Heating Enterprise’s cash 
collection ratio is not less than sixty percent (60%) in year 2001, seventy 
percent (70%) in year 2002, eighty five percent (85%) in year 2003, and 
one hundred percent (100%) in year 2004, and thereafter;
(iv)
by or before April 15 of each year during Sub-project implementation, 
the concerned Participating City and Participating Subject of the 
Borrower, and the Participating District Heating Enterprise shall review, 
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Participating District Heating 
Enterprise and satisfactory to the Bank, whether the Participating 
District Heating Enterprise would be able to meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraphs (l) (i), (ii) and (iii) above in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the NFHR and the 
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion;
(v)
if any such review shows that the Participating District Heating 
Enterprise would not meet the requirements set forth in subparagraphs 
(l) (i), (ii) and (iii) for the Participating District Heating Enterprise’s 
fiscal years covered by such review, the concerned Participating City 
and Participating Subject of the Borrower shall promptly take, and 
ensure that the Participating District Heating Enterprise shall promptly 
take, all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements; and
(vi) 
for the purposes of this subparagraph (l):
(A)
the term "collected operating revenues" means the sum of 
collected revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits, and operational subsidies received by the 
Participating District Heating Enterprise, but excluding 
instruments of deferred payment unless there is a liquid market 
for such instruments;
(B)
the term "operational subsidies" means all subsidies received by 
the Participating District Heating Enterprise in lieu of charges to 
consumers for services provided by the Participating District 
Heating Enterprise;
Page  26
(C)
the term "operational expenses" means all expenses, as 
determined under the accrual method of accounting,  related to 
adequate operation of the Participating District Heating 
Enterprise, including expenditures for personnel, energy and 
other utilities, chemicals and materials, social payments, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and depreciation;
(D)
the term "other Sub-project related expenses" means the sum of: 
(i) the Participating City contribution to the Sub-project, as 
specified in the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; and 
(ii) payments required to be made for the repayment of interest 
and other fees related to the Sub-loan and other debt service 
requirements;
(E)
the term "cash collection" means the collected operating 
revenues as defined in subparagraph (l) (vi) (A) above, received 
in cash by the Participating District Heating Enterprise;
(F)
the term "cash collection ratio" means the ratio between the cash 
collection as defined in sub-paragraph (l) (vi) (E) above and the 
collected operating revenues, as defined in subparagraph (l) (vi) 
(A) above, received in either cash or barter, off-sets and other 
non-cash transactions; 
(G)
the term "total billings" means the sum of all moneys, including 
subsidies, due to the Participating District Heating Enterprise for 
the supply of heating services during the given year; and
(H)
whenever for the purposes of this paragraph (l) it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, 
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Bank.
(m) 
ensure that the Participating District Heating Enterprise is compensated by the 
Participating City or Participating Subject of the Borrower for providing mandated benefits to 
preferred customers; 
(n)
ensure that the setting and collection of district heating charges during 
Sub-project implementation is done in an effective manner, which shall mean, among other 
things, that: 
(i)
district heating charges shall be established and maintained at levels 
which: (A) allow the Participating District Heating Enterprise to cover 
all prudently-incurred costs of operations, including local costs of the 
project and a reasonable level of profit; (B) fully cover depreciation on 
Page  27
revalued assets. The Participating City will further ensure that tariffs are 
adjusted in a timely manner to reflect changes in operating costs. District 
heating charges will be adjusted at a minimum on an annual basis, and 
will be further adjusted if the prices for any single major input (fuel, 
wages, electricity, water, purchased heat) increase by twenty five percent 
(25%) and/or if the weighted average cost of supply increases by ten 
percent (10%);
(ii)
district heating charges payable to the Participating District Heating 
Enterprise by municipal or oblast owned or controlled entities 
(budgetary organizations) and overdue by more than thirty (30) days, 
shall be paid by the Participating City and Participating Subject of the 
Borrower through direct budgetary transfers to the Participating District 
Heating Enterprise, and with respect to amounts payable and overdue by 
more than thirty (30) days from federally owned or controlled entities, 
reasonable efforts and actions will be made by the Participating City and 
Participating Subject of the Borrower to ensure that arrears will be paid; 
(iii)
district heating charges payable by residential, budgetary and industrial 
consumers shall be collected in a timely and efficient manner and, when 
payments are not made on time, district heating services can be and are 
legally terminated in accordance with established policies and 
procedures; and
(iv)
district heating charges payable by residential consumers in each fiscal 
year during Sub-project implementation shall be set at a level not less 
than eighty percent (80%) of average costs of heating services supplied 
by the Participating District Heating Enterprise in year 2001, not less 
than ninety percent (90%) of average cost of heating services supplied 
by the Participating District Heating Enterprise in year 2002, and one 
hundred percent (100%) of  average costs of heating services supplied by 
the Participating District Heating Enterprise in year 2003;  
(o)
prepare and promptly furnish to the MOF and Gosstroi all such information as 
the MOF and Gosstroi or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the administration, 
operations and financial position of the Participating District Heating Enterprise, and to the 
benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
(p)
maintain the Participating District Heating Enterprise in a satisfactory legal 
form;
(q)
carry out an environmental management plan satisfactory to the MOF and 
Gosstroi, and the Bank;
(r)
require that the Participating City not submit for approval any new procurement 
packages unless and until it is in full compliance with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreement, and give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Participating City to the use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by the 
Participating City or Participating Subject of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; and 
Page  28
(s)
at the conclusion of the Sub-project, submit to the MOF and Gosstroi, in a 
manner and by date satisfactory to the MOF and Gosstroi, and the Bank, a Sub-project 
completion report.
4.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall be subject to the following 
conditions of effectiveness:
(a)
a corresponding LPMU shall have been established;
(b)
a Local Project Account shall have been opened and an amount equivalent to the 
Participating City’s co-financing contribution for Sub-project related expenditures projected to 
be required during the following three (3) months and due from the Participating City shall have 
been deposited into the Local Project Account; 
(c)
a corresponding Sub-Project Implementation Agreement has been executed; and
(d)
the MOF and Gosstroi shall have received a satisfactory legal opinion or a 
written official confirmation from the Participating City, Participating Subject of the Borrower 
and Participating District Heating Enterprise confirming that the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Agreement and Sub-Project Implementation Agreement have been duly executed, delivered and 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action of the concerned 
Participating City, Participating Subject of the Borrower, and Participating District Heating 
Enterprise, and that such agreements are legally valid and binding on the parties thereto in 
accordance with their terms.
5.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall include a Sub-project description, 
Sub-loan amortization schedule and procurement terms and conditions.
