The World Bank                                          1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                   U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                               CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                                 March 31, 2011

     Honorable Kwabena Duffuor
     Minister for Finance and Economic Planning
     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
     PO Box MB40
     Accra, Republic of Ghana

     Honorable Minister:

                     GHANA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Project
                     Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 4139-GH)

             We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) for the above-mentioned
     Project, dated February 2, 2006, between the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the International
     Development Association (the Association). We also refer to your letters dated May 7, 2010 and
     November 9, 2010, respectively, requesting specific amendments to the Agreement.

             We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request and proposes to amend
     the Agreement as set forth in this letter (the Amendment).

         6. Section 1.02 of the Agreement shall be amended:

                     (a)     by modifying sub-paragraphs (P) and (v), respectively, to read as follows:

                             “(p)?    “LOC Performance Grant? means a performance-based grant under Part
                                      A.2 of the Project made or proposed to be made out of the Credit by the
                                      Borrower, through BDS Grants Manager, to an eligible bank or other
                                      eligible financial institution participating in an IFC-funded line of credit
                                      facility in accordance with the provisions of Section V of Schedule 4 to
                                      this Agreement.?

                              “(v)?   “Participating Bank? means a commercial bank established and operating
                                      pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, which has met the eligibility
                                      criteria specified in the PCG Framework Agreement (as hereinafter
                                      defined) and as a result has received a Partial Credit Guarantee under
                                      Part A.1 of the Project or a Line of Credit Performance Grant under Part
                                      A.2 of the Project; and “Participating Banks? means, collectively, more
                                      than one Participating Bank.?

                     (b)     by inserting new paragraphs (ii) and (jj), respectively, to read as follows:
                             “(ii)? “Original Credit Amount? means an amount of thirty one million one
                                     hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,100,000) referred to
                                     in Section 2.01 of this Agreement; and?

                             “(jj)?   “Reduced Credit Amount? means an amount of twenty four million one
                                      hundred sixty eight thousand three hundred and ten Special Drawing
                                      Rights (SDR 24,168,310) referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.?
2.   Section 2.01 of the Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:

             “Section 2.01? “The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
             conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
             equivalent to twenty four million one hundred sixty eight thousand three hundred and ten
             Special Drawing Rights (SDR24,168,310) (the “Credit?), which consists of an amount in
             various currencies equivalent to thirty one million one hundred thousand Special
             Drawing Rights (SDR 31,100,000) (“Original Credit Amount?), as reduced by an amount
             in various currencies equivalent to Six million nine hundred thirty one thousand six
             hundred and ninety Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,931,690) (“Reduced Credit
             Amount?).?

3.   Section 2.03of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

             “Section 2.03? “The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2013 or such later date as the
             Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
             later date.?

4.   The table set forth in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety
     and replaced with the table set forth in Annex 1 to this Amendment.

5.   Schedule 2 to the Agreement shall be amended as follows:

     (a)     “Part A:                  Access to Finance?

             Paragraphs 1 and 2 under Part A of the Project shall be amended as follows:

                        “1.?   “SME Loan Portfolio Partial Credit Guarantees?

                               “Provision of financing to facilitate SME loan portfolio partial credit
                               guarantees in local currency to Participating Banks and other eligible
                               participating financial institutions to be issued by IFC on a 50/50 pari
                               passu basis and to be partially backstopped by the Borrower on a first
                               loss basis.?

                        “2.?   “Line of Credit Performance Grants?

                               “Provision of performance-based grants to Participating Banks and other
                               eligible participating financial institutions in an IFC-funded SME line of
                               credit program to encourage them to reach loan volume and performance
                               targets, and to build their capacity and offset certain start-up costs
                               associated with lending to a new market segment.?

     (b)     “Part B:          Access to markets, Trade Facilitation and Entrepreneurship
                               Development?

             (i)        Paragraph 2 shall be amended as follows:

             6. by deleting subparagraphs 2(a) (ii), (iii) and iv), respectively, and modifying
                subparagraph 2 (a) (i) to read as follows:

                               “(a)? “Support for information and communication technology (ICT)
                               based entrepreneurship development through establishment of an
                               information and communication technology park (ICT Park) within the
                                 Borrower’s Multi-Purpose Industrial Park at the port of Tema, through
                                 carrying out a comprehensive feasibility and implementation study,
                                 financing of key infrastructure and administrative costs, and building of a
                                 business and administrative center.?

                 (B)     by deleting subparagraph 2 (c) in its entirety and replacing said paragraph with
                         the following:

                                 “(c)? “ (i) Establishing community-based rural technology facilities
                                 for SMEs in selected districts and identified priority sectors; and (ii)
                                 carrying out comprehensive feasibility and implementation studies for a
                                 small scale furniture producer center in the Multi-Purpose Industrial Park
                                 in Tema.?

                 6. Paragraph 3 shall be amended by deleting subparagraph ©, and renumbering
                    subparagraph (d) as ©.

6.        Schedule 5 to the Agreement setting forth the Key Performance Indicators shall be deleted in its
          entirety and replaced with the Schedule set forth in Annex 2 to this Amendment.

          All other provisions of the Agreement, except as herein amended, shall remain in full force and
effect.

         Please indicate agreement to the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by countersigning and
dating the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided and returning one
original, as countersigned, to us. Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this letter countersigned
by the Borrower, this amendment shall become effective as of the date of its countersignature.

                                                 Sincerely,

                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                           By: /s/ Ishac Diwan
                                               Ishac Diwan
                                    Country Director for Ghana
                                          Africa Region




CONFIRMED:

REPUBLIC OF GHANA



By: /s/ Kwabena Duffuor
       Authorized Representative

Date: March 31, 2011
Copy:


1.      Honorable Hannah Tetteh,
        Minister of Trade & Industry
        Ministry of Trade & Industry

2.      Honorable Haruna Iddrissu
        Minister of Communication
        Ministry of Communication
                                                                                                Annex 1
                                                Schedule 1

                                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

A.      General

1.             The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
        the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
        expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                  Category                     Amount of the Credit      % of Expenditures to
                                              Allocated (Expressed in        be financed
                                                       SDR)
             (1) Works                              7,532,711                    100%

             (2) Goods                               1,99,020                    100%

             (3) Consultants’ services              6,359,406                    100%
                 and audits
             (4) Training                            723,790                     100%

             (5) Operating Costs                     507,808                     100%

             (6) BDS Grants                         2,647,909            100% of the amounts
                                                                             disbursed
             (7) LOC Performance                     160,780             100% of the amounts
                 Grants                                                      disbursed
             (8) Subprograms                        1,244,000                  100%

             (9) Partial Credit                     2,812,886            100% of the amounts
                 Guarantees                                                  disbursed
             (10) Unallocated                           0

             TOTAL AMOUNT                           24,168,310



For the purposes of this Schedule:

        (a)     the term “Training? means all costs associated with the training of personnel involved in
        Project supported activities including travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs
        associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and
        reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related to course preparation and
        implementation; and

        (b)     the term “Operating Costs? means the incremental operating costs incurred on account of
        the implementation of the Project including maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office
        supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances and travel and accommodation,
        but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
                                                                                              Annex 2
                                               Schedule 5

                                      Key Performance Indicators

1.    Volume of bank credit to MSMEs.

2.    Percentage increase in volume of SME Loans extended by participating banks.

3.    Total incremental sales revenue ($) (project supported MSMEs).

4.    Number of jobs (project supported MSMEs).

5.    Number of newly registered MSMEs.

6.    Number of approved bankable loan proposals.

7.    Number of new Financial Instruments and/or products developed.

8.    Total (cum.) number of MSME contract signed (service and/or sales contract with buyers and/or
      clients).

9.    Number and Percentage of MSMEs assisted obtaining national or international product
      certification and/or standard.

10.   Number of comprehensive supply chain and/or cluster strategies adopted.

11.   Number of sub contracts signed in target sectors.

12.   Number of visitors to the information center.

13.   Number of incubates and/or incubated companies graduated from the ICT Park.

14.   Number of tourist visits to the craft villages.

15.   Number of certified MSME products.

16.   Number of recommended law, amendments, regulations and/or codes enacted.

17.   Average number of days to comply with business regulation and/or register a business.

18.   Average official cost to comply with business regulations and/or cost of business start up.

19.   Number of accreditation institutions to certify MSME products.

20.   Number of SMEs utilizing common services of Community-Based Rural technology centers.
