 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14689

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Ghana
             Project ID: P085006                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Ghana - Micro, Small         Project Costs (US$M):                     118.9
                         And Medium
                         Enterprise Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                        45                  37
      Sector Board:      Financial and Private       Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Sector Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                            01/05/2006
                                                               Closing Date:          12/31/2011         11/29/2013
          Sector(s):       SME Finance (70%); Banking (11%); Central government administration (10%); General
                           industry and trade sector (9%)
          Theme(s):        Regulation and competition policy (29%); Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support
                           (29%); Other Private Sector Development (14%); Export development and competitiveness
                           (14%); Trade facilitation and market access (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Akshay Regmi               Clay Wescott          Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
From the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) (02.02.2006) (Page 23):

The objectives of the Project are to enhance the competitiveness and employment levels of micro, small and medium
enterprises in the Borrower’s economy through: (a) building an integrated market access and trade facilitation
infrastructure; (b) supporting entrepreneurship development; (c) developing and strengthening the sustainable
capacity of local intermediaries to deliver financial and non-financial services to micro, small and medium and small
scale enterprises (MSMEs) and to make productive use of these services; (d) reducing selected business constraints
faced by MSMEs, including technical barriers to trade; (e) providing an enabling environment to increase investments
in the MSME sector; and (f) enhancing the Project implementation capacity of the Borrower.

The project development objective (PDO) formulation from the Project Appraisal Document (page 5) is similar in
substance:

The project aims to enhance the competitive and employment levels of Ghanaian MSMEs. This will be achieved by:
(i) building an integrated market access and trade facilitation infrastructure; (ii) proactively supporting
entrepreneurship development; (iii) developing and strengthening, on a sustainable basis, the capacity of local
intermediaries to deliver financial and non-financial services to MSMEs, and MSMEs to make productive use of these
services; (iv) reducing selected business constraints, including technical barriers to trade, faced by MSMEs; (v)
providing an enabling environment (access to finance, trade promotion, and trade facilitation infrastructure) to boost
increased investments in the MSME sector; and (vi) enhancing the facilitation, project development, and
implementation roles of the Government.

The PDO in the PAD and, the DCA have no material difference.
This Review will use the PDO in the DCA. The Review considers the objectives of the Project to be: i) “to enhance the
competitiveness of Ghanaian MSMEs”, and ii) “to enhance the employment levels of Ghanaian MSMEs”.
b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project had 4 components.

1. Access to Finance . (Cost at appraisal US $ 13.4 million; Actual cost: US$ 4.3 million).

This component aimed to provide SME access to finance (particularly term finance), thereby fostering SME growth,
competitiveness, and employment creation. It financed the following activities: i) an IDA/IFC SME loan portfolio Partial
Credit Guarantee Program (PCG); and a Performance-Based Grant Program for banks participating in the Line of
Credit (LOC) facility to be financed by IFC; and ii) technical assistance matching grants for SME finance capacity
building in PCG and LOC participating banks, and-to the extent possible- to other local banks; existing and potential
SME clients of PCG and LOC participating banks; and additional financial instruments to SMEs to be developed and
tested in the course of project implementation.

2. Access to Markets , Trade Facilitation , and Entrepreneurship Development (Cost at appraisal US $ 20 million;
Actual cost: US$ 20 million)

This component was divided into 3 subcomponents. Subcomponent 1: Access to Markets aimed to help MSMEs
overcome operational, technical and regulatory barriers to markets. Subcomponent 2: Trade Facilitation
Infrastructure Development supported the Ghanaian market access and trade facilitation infrastructure through
leveraging the Ghana Gateway Project. Subcomponent 3: Entrepreneurship Development would support the specific
strategic and catalytic interventions of the Government within the framework of its entrepreneurship development
strategy through a Business Development Services (BDS) fund. The credit was designed to support the
transformation of the Tema Export Processing Zone (EPZ) enclave into a Multi-purpose Industrial Part (MPIP).

3. Business Environment (Cost at appraisal US $ 4.5 million; Actual cost: US$ 1.8 million).

This component aimed to support the Medium Term Private Sector Development Strategy (PSDS) through the
implementation of the Ghana trade policy; reform of business registration; improvements in the national system of
standardization certification, and accreditation of conformity assessment; build the institutional capacity of the
Government’s ministries, departments, and agencies to effectively deliver services to the private sector and
strengthen public-private dialogue.

4. Project Implementation , Monitoring and Evaluation (Cost at appraisal US $ 2.9 million; Actual cost: US$ 4.5
million)

This component was designed to enable the Government to support the execution, reporting, review, and monitoring
requirements of the project. Components included i) designing and implementing a comprehensive project
performance framework; ii) enabling the Government to coordinate project activities according to the Project
Implementation Manual; iii) facilitate the partnership between the Government and the private sector; and iv) enable
the Government to harmonizing implementation and pool funding arrangements with development partners.

Modifications:

Project components were modified by a level II restructuring approved on 04.13.2011. In the first component,
commercial banks were now able to access all three PC, LOC and Technical Assistance (TA) instruments. In the
second component, matching grant support was targeted to Tourism and Creative Industries sector. In the third
component, the following activities were dropped: i) Implementation of measures identified for the establishment of the
business process outsourcing sector; ii) Training activities of the Kofi Annan ICT Center of Excellence; iii) Support to
Ghana Information Communication Technologies Directorate; and iv) Capacity building for the Ministry of
Communications. In addition, financing for the furniture city and clothing sector support was dropped. The Common
Service Centers subcomponent was revised to establish Community-Based Rural Technology Facilities for SMEs in a
select number of districts and in identified priority sectors. In the fourth component, undisbursed and uncommitted
funds were reallocated.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: The total estimated cost was US$ 45 million equivalent at appraisal (including US$ 4.2 million for
physical contingencies). The actual cost at closure was US$ 37 million. The first restructuring reduced the credit
amount by US $ 10 million due to the Government’s request to re-assign a portion of the undisbursed credit for budget
support. The second restructuring reallocated credit proceeds among disbursement categories. Final disbursement for
Component 1 was US$ 4.3 million at closure, a reduction by US$ 9.1 million against an appraised cost of US$ 13.4
million. Most of the funds were cancelled from the PCG scheme, which was near completion and no calls were made
on the loans guaranteed; and LOC performance grants were cancelled, as no banks signed up for the facility. The
cost of Component 2 at appraisal and closing was the same at US$ 20 million. Component 3 cost US$ 2.7 million less
than the US$ 4.5 million estimated at appraisal, mainly due to the cancellation of ICT related activities. Component 4
cost US$ 1.6 million more than the US$ 2.9 million estimated at appraisal, due to increased funding to support M&E
and project implementation capacity following the MTR.

Financing: Of the original IDA Credit of US$ 45 million, US$ 37 million was disbursed. The balance of US$ 10 million
was canceled on 2011 at the first restructuring. At the first restructuring after 5 years of project implementation, US$
11 million had been disbursed (24.4% of total project cost). An additional US$ 40 million was appraised as
contributions from IFC. No financing is recorded from IFC at project closing, since no banks signed up for the LOC
facility.
Borrower Contribution : The ICR reports the Borrower contribution to be US$ 1.9 million at appraisal. According to the
Borrower’s ICR, total Borrower contribution was US$ 4.4 million at closing.

Dates: The project was approved by the board in 01.05.2006. The first restructuring, that revised components took
place on 04.13.2011. The second restructuring 06.30.2013 extended the closing date by 5 months (to 11.30.2013)
and reallocated US$ 5 million across categories. The funds committed but not disbursed under the PCG and LOC
schemes were diverted to the construction and improvements to the ICT Park and Tema Free Zones Enclave. The
project closed on 11.29.2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
    The relevance of objectives is rated high.

    The Government’s National Medium-Term Private Sector Development Strategy (PSDS) 2004 – 2008 under the
    Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy focused on policy to develop dynamic and competitive financial and private
    sectors. The PSDS highlights the Government’s commitment to “developing effective markets for the golden age
    of business” with the private sector taking a lead in economic growth. Ghana’s national trade policy considers the
    private sector to be the engine of growth and the Government’s role as providing trade enabling environment to
    actively stimulate private sector initiatives.

    Ghana gained middle-income country status in 2011. The Government’s strategy aims at maintaining this status
    and achieving the pillars laid out in its Ghana 2020 Vision Strategy. Focusing on the financial sector, the
    Government’s Financial Sector Strategy Plan aims to establish a financial sector that is efficient in mobilizing and
    allocating funds, integrated with the global financial systems and supported by a confidence inducing regulatory
    system.

    The Country Partnership Strategy 2013 includes provisions to support the Government’s Ghana Shared Growth
    and Development Agenda (2013). The agenda has seven pillars, two of which are relevant to this project:
    enhance competitiveness of the private sector; and, foster human development, employment and productivity.


b. Relevance of Design:
   The Relevance of Design is rated modest.

    The project had clear overarching objectives. The project was designed to increase the capacity of providers of
    financial and non-financial services to MSMEs, increase market access, support trade facilitation and
    entrepreneurship development for MSMEs, and reduce selected business constraints and technical barriers to
    trade. However, the results framework adopted for the project failed to provide a strong causal chain, especially
    due to the weakness of its intermediate outcome indicators. The project attempted to achieve its objectives in a
    holistic manner, which resulted in a highly complex project design. The project design itself lacked a cohesive
    storyline, and the design provided no justification as to why all of the various components were needed in the
    same project to achieve its objectives.

    The restructuring of the project resulted in streamlining of activities. Areas where immediate needs were
    identified were given renewed focus and components that appeared unfeasible were dropped. The reallocation of
    financial resources to these activities resulted in a closer link between outputs, intermediate outcomes and final
    outcomes, and the project’s first PDO. Some intermediate outcome indicators were brought closer to the PDO
     level indicators, but many crucial indicators were dropped.

     Although the activities of the three major components of the project were mutually complementary, they were
     diverse, with some relating to intermediaries (PCG scheme, LOC facility, TA), some directly to MSME
     beneficiaries (BDS and TA), while others were economy wide (support to PSDS).The fourth component
     supporting project implementation was not given enough focus in the design stage. This led to a mismatch
     between project scope and implementation planning, and a lack of activities for capacity building, which in turn
     led to substantial delays.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The project had two overarching objectives: i) to enhance the competitiveness of Ghanaian MSMEs; and ii) to
enhance the employment levels of Ghanaian MSMEs.

i)       To enhance the competitiveness of Ghanaian MSMEs: modest

The increased sales revenue of project supported MSMEs, the increased volume of bank credit to MSMEs, the
increase in market share of MSMEs and the high number of newly registered MSMEs are evidence that MSMEs
improved their competitiveness in Ghana. The success of the BDS activity, the success of the PCG facility with
Ecobank, and the project’s activities in supporting product certification, access to market share and ease of doing
business indicates that these achievements can be partially attributed to project support.

There were two PDO targets for this objective:

·         The project was able to partially increase the competitiveness of project supported MSMEs. The major
indicator for competitiveness used by the ICR was total incremental sales revenue of project supported MSMEs,
which increased to US$ 7.39 million from a baseline of US$ 5.62 million. 90% of the target of US$ 8.9 million was
achieved.

·        The project aimed to increase MSMEs’ access to finance, and designed the PCG scheme, the LOC facility
and related TA for participating banks. The ICR measures this outcome by the total volume of bank credit to MSMEs
and reports an increase by 236% (US$ 5.1 Billion from a baseline of US$ 2.2 Billion – ICR p. 20). These numbers
represent the total amount of private sector credit in the economy, as estimated by the Central Bank of Ghana. This
PDO level indicator does not relate directly to the project, which supported only MSMEs, and this increase in total
credit cannot be attributed to it.

     There were also a number of intermediate outcome targets:

·         The Restructuring document sets a target for US$ 100 million in cumulative loans to MSMEs for 2011 (no
baseline provided for later years). Only one bank, Ecobank, signed up for the PCG scheme, and no banks signed up
for the LOC facility. Ecobank disbursed 251 loans, worth over US$ 5.7 million. Although this activity was unable to
meet its targets, PCG scheme enabled Ecobank to extend credit facilities to a number of SMEs which were
otherwise not eligible under the bank’s credit policy. 35% of SME loans were to first time clients.

·         The MSMEs that participated in the BDS and related TA activities increased total revenues by US$ 7.4
million between 2008 and 2010. The BDS facility supported 148 projects with 223 applicants approved and 638
beneficiaries. Total of US$ 5.2 million was disbursed in grants. But, the ICR states that impact assessment and
evaluations were only done in the first phase of the BDS. A clear causal chain between the project’s financing and the
results cannot be established.

·          MSME market share increase was measured by the total no. of contracts signed for sales and services with
buyers and clients. A total of 205 MSMEs reported increased market share from a target of 350 MSMEs, because of
activities such as the Subcontracting Partnership Exchange project, Association of Ghana Industries’ Local Content
Exhibition and Conference and trade fairs organized by Ghana Trade Promotion Agency through the BDS facility.
Contracts amounting to US$ 2 million equivalent for 23 of the SMEs was reported by the Association of Ghana
Industries. The Restructuring document targets US$ 10 million in total value of MSME contracts.

·         The project had activities designed to encourage Ghanaian MSMEs to invest in product certification by
building capacity and providing certification equipment for both Food and Drugs Authority and Ghana Standards
Authority. The ICR mentions the number of certified MSME products to be 3147, surpassing the 1100 target level.
However, no causal attribution, or any discussion of this achievement is presented in the ICR. The ICR does not
report on the percent increase in the application of national standards by MSMEs.
       Number of days for registering a business has been reduced to 5 days from 81 days. Key indicators in the
WB Doing Business Index have improved.


The outputs associated with this objective were:

·          One bank (Ecobank) was the only signatory of the PCG instrument. Ecobank disbursed 251 loans, worth
over US$ 5.7 Million through the help of the project. 76% of the loans had tenors expanding from 3 months to 12
months (SME finance sector Ghana average is 3-6 months).
·          PCG scheme enabled Ecobank to extend credit facilities to a number of SMEs which were otherwise not
eligible under the bank’s credit policy. 35% of SME loans were to first time clients. 57% of clients received u to US$
50000 or less.
·          Ecobank’s SME portfolio consists of contractors, distributors, traders, agribusiness, importers, exporters,
MFIs, manufacturers and ICT service providers, with a loan range from US$ 50000 – US$ 250,000. Ecobank’s SME
portfolio grew by 20% (as opposed to 10% prior to the project).
·          23 projects developed under the National Export Strategy (NES). NES and National Export Development
Program have become National Policy Documents of GOG.
·          148 projects were completed under the Business Development Services Fund with 223 applicants approved
and 638 beneficiaries. Total of US$ 5.2 Million was disbursed in grants.
·          The SPX project arranged direct subcontracting opportunities for 23 local contractors. The SPX Center was
renovated and logistical support was provided.
·          Tourism sector was supported through a) a tourism value chain study and study tours in prime tourist
locations b) CEDECOM, the regional development agency, was provided with equipment and materials c) 45 staff
from CEDECOM were trained in tourism development planning, marketing, data collection, analysis and management
d) Hardware for wireless internet was procured and installed in the designated tourism locations e) Select craft
villages were supported to build capacity on improved services, production, packaging and marketing souvenirs.
·          AGI Local Content Exhibition and Conference was organized and now held annually bringing international
industry players together with SMEs.
·          215 manufacturing companies under 15 categories and 29 service providers under 3 categories listed on the
Web Based Product Gallery. Visitors reached 64 thousand between 2013 and 2014 (increase of 200%). Currently one
of the first hits on Google search.
·          Ghana Export School runs advanced courses on export marketing, attended by a number of firms (ICR does
not specify how many)
·          Project procured and installed 5 transformers at the garment enclave at Adjabeng, Accra, where 9 garment
manufacturers are housed. A 65 kw power generator was installed in the Trade Information Center to improve
operational efficiency.
·          Design and construction of an ICT Park in Tema Economic Zone, including access roads, access to energy
and internet and a marketing facility.
·          Tariff Advisory Board established in 2009 to provide consistency in tariff applications.
·          6 Laboratories fully refurbished by Ghana Standards Board. 60 Auditors from GSB and other institutions
have been certified as ISO 9001 and ISO 22000.


ii)      To enhance the employment levels of Ghanaian MSMEs: modest

There were two PDO targets for this objective:

·         The total number of jobs created in project supported MSMEs was 5147 (target of 4200 – exceeded by
23%).There is no evidence, breakdown by sector, or sustainability of these jobs presented. The ICR states that
support to a manufacturing company resulted in the employment of 30 additional permanent staff, but no further
details are mentioned. There is no causal relationship presented between the activities of the project and employment
generation in the design documents or the ICR. Rather, direct and indirect generation of employment was expected to
result from increased competitiveness of MSMEs.

·       The number of newly registered MSMEs was 256,131, with an achievement of 312% of the target of 82,000
MSMEs. The data may include double counting as no data on lifespan of these MSMEs exist. This increase in newly
created MSME’s is presumed to go along with increased MSME employment. As the ICR notes, the project worked
on a meso-level, and as such the increase in MSME registration cannot be solely attributed to the project. Ghana’s
economy also registered a strong growth during this period, so a counterfactual to the project cannot be determined.

There are no intermediate outcomes or outputs that are directly related to this objective. Outputs supported by the
project that increased competitiveness in MSMEs, and the success of the BDS facility, suggests that increased
employment levels of MSME’s may be partially attributed to project support. The total number of new employees in
MSMEs participating in the BDS service is reported as 727. The BDS impact analysis finds that MSMEs participating
in the BDS increased employment by 13% annually in 2008 - 2010 as opposed to control groups. The impact analysis
was not designed at the project design phase and its control group was selected retroactively, and as such is not
entirely accurate. The second phase of the BDS (2011 – 2012) did not conduct a similar assessment with control
groups due to unresponsiveness of MSMEs surveyed.


 5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal, a cost benefit analysis was carried out for the whole project. The ICR points out that a number of
assumptions were used which turned out to be unrealistic given the absence of baseline data, as well as no estimate
of the expected number of MSMEs that would be affected by the project (in the form included in the original economic
analysis) or their average revenue.

The total project funds disbursed were US$ 37 million, versus the estimated appraisal IDA cost of US$ 45 million. This
reduction came after minimal disbursement in the first 3 years of the project. The reduction was at the expense of
various cancellations of project components, such as garment and furniture industry support centers and support to
Ghana International Trade Commission. At project closure, financial economic rates of return were calculated for the
Partial Credit Guarantee scheme and its related TA, and the Business Development Service component. The IRR was
85% for the PCG scheme, and 14% for the BDS. The ICR does not give the ERR of the total project at completion.

Taking these factors into account, the efficiency of the project is rated as modest

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                     23.3%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                                                                %                                      %
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project addressed highly relevant objectives with a modestly relevant design. The efficacy of the first
sub-objective: to enhance competitiveness of Ghanaian MSMEs was modestly achieved. The efficacy of the second
sub-objective, to enhance the employment levels of Ghanaian MSMEs was also modestly achieved. Evidence of
efficacy was undermined by a lack of clear data to establish causality and poor specification of outcome and
intermediate indicators. The project efficiency was rated as modest. Although the project’s objectives were in sync
with those of the government, and the World Bank Group’s current strategy, the lack of a convincing results
framework resulted in activities that were only partially able to achieve the final outcomes.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The Project Development Objectives still rank very highly in the Government’s private sector development and
poverty reduction and trade policy agendas. Therefore, the risk of policy reversal that adversely affects the
development outcome is low.

There is the risk that the Tema Industrial Park and the ICT park may not be utilized by SMEs, and the financed
infrastructure will degrade without financial incentives to maintain it.

The risk that financial lending to the SME sector will not continue in the trend set by this program is moderate, and
may be balanced by the ripple effect of the success of the PCG with Ecobank. The success of the PCG scheme
should demonstrate to other Banks the feasibility of SME lending.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was one of seven new pilot projects of the joint IFC/IDA MSME Program for Africa. The World
Bank Group involvement in this project was a mandate to pilot a combination of IFC/IDA instruments in search of
solutions to finance and scale up MSMEs in Africa. In both preparation and supervision phase, an enhanced
partnership between IDA and IFC was envisioned.

The project design was too complex and ambitious. The project’s original design included 4 components, 8 sub
components, and over 25 distinct activities. Most importantly, as the ICR notes, the various components and
activities of the project, especially component 2, was not based on a solid overarching integrative framework, and
did not provide a rationale for having all the activities under one project. Many components were thus dropped
after the first restructuring. Some components of the project, such as the PCG scheme, benefitted from the
technical and up front design support, other components remained vague (eg. furniture city). The project’s broad
scope and lack of specificity resulted in complications for implementation and supervision.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Due to various reasons, including a weak M&E mechanism, lack of leadership, and changes in the Borrower
Government, the first 3 years saw minimal implementation of the project.. Only 20 percent of total funds were
disbursed leading up to the MTR.

After the MTR, support to M&E, increased technical assistance and reorienting of project activities in line with the
objectives was able to turn the project around, especially in the PCG schemes. The two level 2 restructurings
were introduced to correct measures and ensure improvement and added focus. The Bank’s supervision was
adequate and addressed issues as they emerged. The first restructuring was adaptive and corrective in nature,
and helped streamline and better align project activities and remedy the slow disbursements and implementation.
The second restructuring was responsive and adaptive, reallocating funds to priority activities and extending the
project deadline.

Critical to quality of Bank supervision was the placing of the TTL in the field. Impact assessments and targeted
diagnostics were carried out to better design and implement project activities. A complete revamping of the M&E
system was undertaken, which increased the Bank’s ability to supervise the project.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The role of the Government of Ghana in implementation of the MSME project was designed to be one of
fiduciary responsibilities, oversight and coordination, with service delivery responsibilities delegated to the private
sector. The project had strong government ownership at its inception. However, government ownership did not
continue for the first three years of the project’s implementation. This resulted in a weak oversight of the PCU, and
weak leadership of the reform process crucial to early project success. Due to the diversity of the project
implementation institutions, the government needed to play a strong coordinating role between the various
stakeholders. Government performance improved after the MTR. As the ICR notes, the government took various
actions to improve PCU effectiveness, the most important of which being the establishment of a Project Steering
Committee (PSC) chaired by the Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementation of the project was led by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The components of the project
were implemented by the Ministry through its departments and agencies. The PSC was established to provide
policy guidance and strategic oversight to the MSME project. The complex nature of this project required a high
level of implementation capacity of the borrower. The project had 12 implementation agencies, including the PSC,
Project Implementation Committee, and other arrangements. The diversity of the implementing arrangement and
the capacity of the borrower to implement was the most crucial factor for project success. However sufficient
activities to support borrower’s implementation capacity, and thus directly affect achievement of project objectives,
were not addressed.

The Borrower’s ICR notes that the PSC met bi-monthly in the early stages and once a month as the project
progressed. The ICR does not corroborate that these meetings were held as planned. The implementing agency
suffered from managerial problems in the first 3 years of the project, resulting in procurement and financial
management inadequacies. This translated into poor performance and poor relationship with the stakeholders
involved and other implementing agencies. There was also an absence of proper M&E capacity to monitor the
project progress.

Following the MTR, the PCU enhanced its technical, procurement and financial management skills. The M&E
capacity was also significantly increased. However, even following the MTR, the project’s implementation
consistently suffered due to poor leadership of the PCU coordinator, and the PCU was not able to provide
constant coordination and accountability for a project of this size. This resulted in a lack of clear objectives,
awareness and buy-in from stakeholders and implementing agencies. Management and enforcing of contracts,
development of terms of reference and technical specifications also suffered.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The weak M&E design failed to provide implementing agencies with clear targets and tools for accountability. This
pilot project aimed to learn lessons, and then scale up. However, a coherent framework and clearly delineated
management of M&E functions was not designed at project appraisal, or in subsequent years of implementation.
There were no clear guidelines or indication for what agencies or institutions were accountable for monitoring and
evaluation, and how the data would be utilized and by whom. The ICR reports that a common understanding of the
key expected outcomes and related indicators was lacking. The indicators were also focused on outputs and
processes rather than outcomes, and some were at the wrong scale: for example, a key PDO indicator measured the
volume of credit to the entire private sector in Ghana, rather than credit to project related MSMEs.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The implementation of the M&E system had various weaknesses. At appraisal, 30 intermediate indicators were
included. However, baseline data did not exist for majority of these indicators. In the context of an overly ambitious
results framework, the monitoring and evaluation activities suffered from weak management and lack of ownership,
lack of dedicated personnel, and limited data collection.

After the MTR, an overhaul of the M&E system was conducted and intermediate outcome indicators and targets were
changed, while preserving the original objectives. The indicators were reduced to 25 to target those that could be
better monitored. Some indicators that lacked data sources were dropped and two sets of separate indicators, for
outcomes and intermediate outputs, were adopted.

A larger involvement from the PCU resulted in increased ownership and the indicators were more closely mapped to
inputs and outputs. A new M&E specialist was hired and supported by the Bank M&E group. The M&E framework
was overhauled and established baseline values for the indicators for the first time, resulting in a coherent framework
emerging 4 years after project implementation. The outcome indicators were part of the results framework, and the
outputs were to be monitored and reported at the implementation level.

The new M&E framework resulted in the availability and increase in quality of data. However, improvements were not
uniform and many intermediary indicators remained loosely relevant to key outcome indicators, for example, number
of tourist visits to craft villages, and number of visitors to the information center. The availability and quality of data
was also not uniform.


c. M&E Utilization:

    There is no information in the ICR if M&E findings were systematically utilized or communicated to stakeholders.
M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    According to the PAD, the operation was classified as Category ‘B” for Environmental Assessment purposes and
    safeguard policy OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) would be triggered.

    Under the Trade Facilitation and Entrepreneurship Development Component, the project contained infrastructure
    elements including the construction of a building and installation of fiber optic cables at the industrial park. The
    mitigation measures involved an environment management plan and implementation requirements compliant with
    IFC guidelines.

    The project resulted in upgrades to the infrastructure within the Tema enclave. However, there is no discussion
    presented on the implementation of environmental safeguards triggered.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR reports that fiduciary management rating for the project remained satisfactory throughout the lifetime of
    the project. The fiduciary management was generally adequate and in compliance with Bank policy.

    Prior to the first restructuring, the Project suffered from weak procurement capacity in the various implementing
    agencies. The Ghana Tourism Board was flagged, which resulted in channeling their recruitment through the
    PCU. Another problem was poor filing practices. PCU also required additional support in procurement. Generally,
    the ICR states that the project was in compliance with Bank Procurement policies.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:
N/A


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons stem from the experience of preparing and implementing this project, some of which draw
from the ICR:

         A complex project needs to present a strong analytical argument for its wide-ranging scope. This analysis
should inform in the design of the project, and selection of implementing agencies, and be communicated to all
stakeholders involved to ensure clarity and adequate resource availability. Given the broad scope of private sector
development, being selective in designing activities is important.
         A robust M&E framework, designed with clear accountability and feedback mechanisms is crucial for a
complex project with various interrelated components.
         In complex projects, painstaking planning, strong presence on the field, and capacity building at all levels
are critical for its successful implementation.
         Projects that are heavily driven by individual leaders need to include measures to help sustain ownership
and commitment in their absence.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

   The ICR is clearly written, provides sufficient evidence to evaluate the project, and is candid about shortcomings,
   regarding the weak results chain and weak implementation, especially in the years prior to the first restructuring.
   The lessons presented were based on the project experience. The deficiencies in the outcome indicators are
   related to the results framework rather than quality of ICR.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
