Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7489-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Rural Poverty Reduction Project - 
Rio Grande do Norte) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE 
 
Dated June 20, 2008
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7489-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 20, 2008, entered into between the  INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the STATE OF RIO 
GRANDE DO NORTE (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty two million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($22,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if 
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the  interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, with the prior non-objection of the Guarantor, 
through the 
Secretariat of National Treasury of the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in 
order to facilitate prudent debt management:  (i) a change of the Loan Currency 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
The Borrower’s Secretary at the time responsible for Labor, Housing and Social 
Assistance, or any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through COPES with the assistance of the Municipal 
Councils, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the general Conditions. 
Page  4
-
3
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the 
Operational Manual (amended as per the provisions of Section I.F. of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement) has been adopted with all its annexes through an administrative instruction 
(
Instrução Normativa
)
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on March 18, 
2009. 
4.03. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has been 
duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, t
he
Borrower’s Representative is 
its Governor. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria de Estado do 
Planejamento e das Finanças - SEPLAN 
 
Centro Administrativo do Estado - Lagoa Nova 
 
59.059-900 Natal, Rio Grande do Norte 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-84)3232-1911 
 
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K, 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SETHAS - 
Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho, da Habitação e Assistência Social  
 
Centro Administrativo do Estado - Lagoa Nova 
 
59.059-900 Natal, Rio Grande do Norte 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-84)3232-1830 
 
COPES-Coordenadoria de Projetos Especiais 
 
Rua Major Laurentino de Morais 1220, Bairro Tirol 
 
59020-390, Natal, RN 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-84) 3232-4206 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Brasilia, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE 
 
By/s/ Wilma Maria de Faria 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to promote wellbeing and income-generation for the 
rural poor by improving access to basic, social and economic infrastructure as well as support for 
productive activities through Community Subprojects; (b) to increase the social capital of rural 
communities to organize collectively and meet their own needs; (c) to enhance local governance 
and citizenship through creation and strengthening of Municipal Councils; and (d) to foster closer 
integration of development policies and programs in rural areas at the local level by strengthening 
Municipal Councils in their fund-raising, prioritization and decision-making capacity,  at the 
same time forging links with governmental and non-governmental agencies, civil society, 
financial institutions and the private sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part 1
:
Community Subprojects
:
Financing through Area Grants of small scale community investments (Community 
Subprojects) consisting, 
inter alia, 
of: (a) infrastructure investments such as for rural water 
supply and electrification; (b) social investments such as construction of day care centers and 
rehabilitation of schools and health posts; and (c) other productive investments such as for small-
scale community agro-processing and minor irrigation schemes. 
Part 2
:
Institutional Development
:
(a)  
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community Associations in, 
inter alia, 
community mobilization and organization, preparation of Community 
Subprojects, operation and maintenance of such Community Subprojects.     
(b) 
Training and equipping of Municipal Councils with respect to their role and 
responsibilities, the contents of the Operational Manual, subproject evaluation 
and supervision, environmental assessment of subprojects, participatory planning 
and financial management.  
(c)  
Provision of on-the-
job training and expert advice for COPES’ staff, Municipal 
Councils, and Community Associations on technical matters regarding the 
Community Subproject preparation/execution cycle (such matters to include, for 
example, technical designs, monitoring techniques and financial management). 
(d) 
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with 
respect to the implementation of the Project.                           
Page  8
-
7
-
Part 3
:
Project Administration:
Support the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision including, 
inter 
alia: 
(a) 
the operation of COPES and its field offices related to Project implementation; 
(b) 
the establishment and operation of the MIS; 
(c) 
the design, development and carrying out of a statewide information campaign 
within the Borrower’s territory to disseminate information about the Project; and  
(d) 
the carrying out of studies to assess the impact of the Project, including, 
inter 
alia, 
a
baseline evaluation study, annual physical performance reviews, a mid-
term implementation review, and a comprehensive impact evaluation. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through SETHAS, and 
during Project implementation, maintain COPES with responsibilities, structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
The Borrower, through  SETHAS, shall enter into Area Grant Agreements appropriate for 
the carrying out of the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with terms of 
the respective draft set forth in the New Model Forms in which the Borrower shall obtain 
rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the right to: (1) 
suspend or terminate the right of a Community Association to use the proceeds of the 
Area Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Area Grant then 
withdrawn, upon the Community Association’s failure to perform any of its obligations 
under the Area Grant Agreement; and (2) require each Community Association to:  (a) 
carry out its Community Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
purpose; (c) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Area Grant 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (d) maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Community Subproject and the achievement 
of its objectives; (e) (i) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Community Subproject; and (ii) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, 
have such financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and 
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (f) enable 
the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Community Subproject, its operation and any 
relevant records and documents; and (g) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing. 
D. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Area Grant Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
Page  10
-
9
-
the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate
 
or waive any Area Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
E. 
The Borrower shall continue: (a) preparing and furnishing to the Bank annual operating 
plans and budgets, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be 
carried out during the next succeeding year and the respective sources of funding 
therefor, by October 30 of each year; and (b) furnishing to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budgets referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each year in question, not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's annual 
budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly). 
F. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall continue carrying out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and the approved annual operating plans and respective 
budgets, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall incorporate: 
 
(i) 
in the environmental management plan contained in the Operational 
Manual: 
 
(A) 
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to be followed:  
 
(I) 
in the event that environmental issues are identified on the 
checklist for Community Subprojects; 
 
(II) 
to identify and address potential cumulative 
environmental impacts from multiple Community 
Subprojects; and 
 
(III) 
to ensure an integrated pest management approach in 
irrigation investments, including a pest management plan; 
and 
 
(B) 
a description of the consultations carried out in respect of the 
environmental management plan, including the procedures 
referred to in (i) above; and 
 
(ii) 
a revised Model Form consistent with the requirements of Section I.C. of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A.
 Project 
Reports 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual and agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after end of the period covered 
by such report.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A.
 General.
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  12
-
11
-
B.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.   
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Goods, works and services
 (other than consultants’ services) under 
Community Subprojects, costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual for community participation. 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the 
following additional provisions: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to 
bid. 
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio)
 of 
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each 
case. 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale. 
Page  13
-
12
-
C.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General. 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice 
to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, Area Grants 
and New Administrative Costs as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures, Area Grants and New Administrative Costs in each Category:  
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
Page  14
-
13
-
(1)  Goods, works and 
services required for 
Community 
Subprojects supported 
by: 
 
(a) Area 1 Grants 
(b) Area 2 Grants 
(c) Area 3 Grants 
 
7,875,000 
7,500,000 
3,750,000 
 
75% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services  
and training for Parts 2 and 
3
of
the Project 
1,726,000 100% 
(3) New Administrative 
Costs: 
 
(a) incremental 
 
operational costs 
(b) Project supervision and 
 
monitoring costs 
 
140,000 
 
400,000 
 
20% 
 
50% 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
       56,250 
 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(5) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
1,052,750
TOTAL 
             22,500,000
Page  15
-
14
-
B
.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
during the twelve months immediately before this date for Eligible Expenditures under 
Categories (1) through (3). 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and  November 15 
 
Beginning on November 15, 2011 - through 
November 15, 2023 
 
3.85% 
On  May 15, 2024 
3.75% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
Page  17
-
16
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  18
-
17
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original Loan 
Agreement, its subsequent amendments and the General Conditions, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and are hereby incorporated to this Agreement. Additionally, the 
following definitions also constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Area Grants” means Area 1 Grants, Area 2 Grants and/or Area 3 Grants. 
3. 
“Area Grant Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and a Community Association for an Area Grant. 
4. 
“Area 1 Grant” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of the Community Subprojects in 59 Municipalities 
with the lowest: (i) Human Development Index; (ii) urban index; and (iii) number of 
subprojects/resources under the Original Project. 
5. 
“Area 2 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of Community Subprojects in 59 Municipalities with 
intermediate: (i) Human Development Index; (ii) urban index; and (iii) number of 
subprojects/resources. 
6. 
“Area 3 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of Community Subprojects in those remaining 47 
Municipalities not covered by Area 1 and Area 2 Grants. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
8. 
“COPES” means “
Coordenadoria de Projetos Especiais
”, a technical unit within 
SETHAS operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 14.324 of February 23, 1999. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
Page  19
-
18
-
10. 
“Human Development Index” means the index which is measured by the Guarantor’s 
Instituto de Pesquisas
 Econômicas Aplicadas – (IPEA)
 on the basis of the indicators 
for education, health, and income in the Borrower
’s territory. 
11. 
“MIS” means “Monitoring Information System”. 
12. 
“Municipal Council” means a municipal council, composed mainly of representatives 
of communities and local organizations, as provided in the Operational Manual. 
13. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project referred to 
in Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be approved by the Bank and 
including, 
inter alia
,
the following: (a) procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
followed: (i) in the event that environmental issues are identified on the checklist for 
Community Subprojects; (ii) to identify and address potential cumulative 
environmental impacts from multiple Community Subprojects; and (iii) to ensure an 
integrated pest management approach in irrigation investments, including a pest 
management plan; (b) a description of the consultations carried out in respect of the 
environmental management plan; and (c) a revised Model Form consistent with the 
requirements of Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; as the same may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
14. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project 
between the Bank and the Borrower, dated July 4, 2002 (Loan No. 4667-BR). 
15. 
 “Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
16. 
 “New Administrative Costs” means the operational costs (which would not have 
occurred absent the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
equipment and computer 
maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office facilities) and the 
supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by COPES under Part 3 of 
the Project (including, 
inter alia
,
operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, 
spare parts and insurance, maintenance of the monitoring and information system, 
travel and per diem costs for technical staff of COPES carrying out training, 
supervisory and quality control activities, but  excluding expenditures for salaries and 
related benefits). 
17. 
“New Model Forms” means the set of model draft Area Grant Agreements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.  
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 
2006. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
19.  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 15, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
20.  
“SEPLAN” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado do 
Planejamento e das Finanças
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning and Finance. 
21. “SETHAS” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado do Trabalho, da Habitação e da Assistência 
Social
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat for Labor, Housing and Social Assistance.
 
