                                             Documentof
                                            The WorldBank

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 40488-BR




                                          PROJECTPAPER

                                                  ONA

                            PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(LOAN)

                                         INTHEAMOUNTOF
                                          US$22.5 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                STATEOF N O GRANDEDONORTE

                                  WITH THE GUARANTEEOF THE
                               FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                               FORTHE

                RIO GRANDEDONORTERURALPOVERTYREDUCTIONPROJECT




                                            August 14,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
BrazilCountry ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

This documenthas a restricteddistributionand maybe usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective July 5,2007)
             Currency Unit = Real(R$)
                    R$1.00 = US$1.913
                   US$l.OO = R$0.523

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1    - December31

          ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDD        Community-Driven Development
COPES       Coordenadoria de ProjetosEspeciais
            (Coordinator of Special Projects - State Technical Unit)
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
HDI        United Nations Human Development Index
IEG        Independent EvaluationGroup
IPPF       Indigenous Peoples' PlanningFramework
ISDS       Integrated SafeguardsData Sheet
MIS        Management Information System
O & M       Operation and Maintenance
PPA         State Multi-yearInvestmentProgram
RPRP       Rural PovertyReduction Program
SETHAS     Secretariade Estado do Trabalho, Habitaqzo e daAssistgncia
           Social
            (State Secretariatof Labor, Housing and Social Assistance)
SEPLAN     Secretariade Estado do Planejamento e das Financas
            (State Secretariatof Planningand Finance)
STU         State Technical Unit




            Vice President:       Pamela Cox
          Country Director:       John Briscoe
           Sector Director:       Laura Tuck
         Task Team Leader:        Maria de FatimaAmazonas

                                                                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE


                                                      BRAZIL
             RIO GRANDEDO NORTE RURALPOVERTY REDUCTIONPROJECT
                                        ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                 Page

I.           Introduction.................................................................................                         1

I1.          BackgroundandRationalefor Additional Financing.................................                                       1

I11.         Appraisaland Scaled-upProjectActivities.............................................                                  6

                                                       ......................................................................
             b.Technical Analysis......................................................................
             a. Economic andFinancialAnalysis

             c.FiduciaryAnalysis
             d.Safeguards................................................................................
                                    ......................................................................
IV.          ExpectedOutcomes.,......................................................................

V.           BenefitsandRisks.........................................................................                             9

VI.          FinancialTerms andConditions for AdditionalFinancing...........................                                      10

VI1.         AllocationofLoanProceeds............................................................                                 10

Annex 1:     ProjectResultsFramework...............................................................                               11




This documenthasa restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwise be disclosedwithoutWorld Bank authorization                                    .

                                   PROJECT  PAPERDATASHEET



                                                   Sector Director: Laura Tuck
                                                   Country Director: John Briscoe
                                                   Environmental Category: B



Responsibleagency: Secretariat for Planning and Finance; and, Secretariat for Labor, Housing
and Social Assistance/Coordination Unit for Special Projects (COPES)




Doesthe restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank
policies?                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these beenapproved by Bank management? N/A                                    [ ]Yes [ IN0
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [XINO

Revised project development objectives: The proposedAdditional Financingwould support the
scaling-up of the Rio Grande do Norte Rural PovertyReduction Projectto (1) improve well-
being, employment and incomes of the rural poor through better access to basic social and
economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, usingproven
community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (2) increasethe social capital of rural
communities and capacity to organize collectively to meettheir own needs; (3) enhance local
governanceby greater citizen participation andtransparency indecision-making through the
:reation and strengtheningof community associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) foster
:loser integration of development policies, programs and projects inrural areas at the local level
by assistingthe project's participatory Municipal Councils to extend their role inseeking funding
from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resourcesfrom,
sther complementary programs.

Does the scaled-up project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o     -
                                     For Additional Financing
-XILoan     [3 Credit     [ ] Grant
For Loans:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 22.50
        Proposedterms: Fixed Spread Loan (FSL)


                      Source                          Local      I    Foreign     I           Total
3orrower 15%                                                4.30             0.20              4.50
:BRD75%                                                   21.75              0.75             22.50
2ommunity Associations 10%                                 2.70              0.30              3.00
rota1                                                     28.75              1.25             30.00

I.Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an additional loan inthe amount
o f US$22.50 million to the State o f Rio Grande do Norte, with the Guarantee o f the Federative Republic o f
Brazil, for the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Poverty Reduction Project (Ln.4667-BR).

The proposed additional loan would help finance the costs associated with the scaling-up o f activities to
enhance the impact o f this project, which has performed well under the ongoing Project. N o major changes
are proposed to the design or implementation arrangements o f the Project. The Additional Financing would
continue to support basic, small-scale infrastructure investments for the rural poor while intensifying the
focus on creating the conditions for productive, employment and income-generating activities, the proportion
o f which inthe total mix o f investments i s expected to increase to around half. It would also foster the closer
integration o f rural development policies, programs and projects at the local level, by mainstreaming the
capacity o f the existing project-financed Municipal Councils to seek funding from, set priorities for and
make decisions concerning the allocation o f resources from other State and Federal programs outside the
Bank-supported project.

Partnershir, arrangements: While the proposed Additional Financing does not envisage specific partnership
arrangements with other international financing agencies, it i s designed to establish and consolidate strong
linkages between the Project and a series o f complementary State and Federal programs and projects also
operating in rural areas o f Rio Grande do Norte. Partnerships established under the Project include the
Federally-financed National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture (known as PRONAF), the Bank-
supported Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project (Ln. 7037-BR, known as Cre'dito Fundidrio) and the
Water Resources Management Project (Loan 43 10-BR, known as Prodgua). Other likely candidates for
direct integration include the Food Acquisition Program (PAA)', Program for Sustainable Development o f
the Semi-Arid Zone (Projeto Dom Helder), Programa Boa Agud, and the Rio Grande do Norte Water
Resources Management Project (awaiting Board approval).

The approach to increasing local-level integration and broadening partnerships would be similar to that
adopted under the Bahia State Integrated Project: Rural Poverty (Ln. 7327-BR) approved by the Board in
August 2005, and under three Additional Financings for Rural Poverty Reduction operations inthe Northeast
states o f Ceara, Piaui and Pernambuco approved by the Board between June and October, 2006.3 All
investment resources secured from complementary programs will be prioritized, debated and decided upon
using the existing community associations and participatory Municipal Councils. In the aggregate, these
integration efforts are expected to leverage about US$3 for each US$1 o f Additional Financing.


11. Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Original Pro-iect Design: The Original Loan, in the amount o f US$22.50 million, became effective on
September 20, 2002. Objectives under the Project are four-fold: (1) improve well-being and incomes o f the
rural poor through better access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and support for
productive activities, using proven community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (2) increase the social
capital o f rural communities and capacity to organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhance local
governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in decision-making, through creation and
strengthening o f community associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) foster closer integration o f
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level by assisting the project's


1 Direct acquisition by public authorities and others of food products, especiallymilk, produced by small-scalefamily farmers and
*cooperativesfor the school lunchand other nutrition assistance programs.
  Water capture and distribution for isolated rural communities.
  Ceari RuralPoverty ReductionProject -Additional Financing (Loan 7387-BR) approved June 6,2006; Piaui Rural Poverty
ReductionProject-Additional Financing approvedJuly 18,2006; andPernambuco Rural Poverty Reduction Project-Additional
Financing (Loan 4625-1-BR) approved October 19,2006.

 participatory Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting priorities for and
 making decisions concerning the allocation o f resources from, other, complementary programs. The
 objectives o fthe Additional Financing will not change.

 Rio Grande do Norte experienced a positive evolution o f key socio-economic indicators from 1991-2000.
 The state Human DevelopmentIndex (HDI) improved from 0.604 to 0.705 in the p e r i ~ d ,the proportion of
                                                                                               ~
 the population in extreme poverty decreased from 50% to 40%, access to water supply and electricity
 improved markedly, and infant mortality declined from about 169/1,000 live births to 49/1,000. In rural
 areas, poverty rates fell by an impressive 18% in the period. Nevertheless, headcount poverty rates in Rio
 Grande do Norte remain double the national average. The poor continue to be disproportionately located in
 rural areas and employed in agriculture primarily as smallholders, sharecroppers and rural wa e-workers,
 dependent on subsistence crops o f low productivity and vulnerable to agro-climatic conditions. These are
                                                                                                    f
 the target population o f the project, with the most to gain from project continuity, a more dynamic, rigorous
 approach to income generating productive activities, and to capturing the beneficial effects o f integrating
 complementary projects, programs and resources through the mechanism o f the participatory Municipal
 Councils.

As underthe Original Loan, the Additional Financingwill support the following three components:

 (1) Community Subprojects will provide matching grants to community associations to finance their
 implementation o f about 1,643 small-scale productive, socio-economic infrastructure, education, health,
cultural, environmental and other investments benefiting an estimated 51,000 families (229,500 people) in
 165 municipalities. Under the Additional Financing, community subprojects are expected to be slightly larger
than under the Original Loan and a larger proportion o f subprojects are expected to be productive, which
tend to cost more while directly benefiting fewer families, accounting for the reduced beneficiary target
under the second phase.

For Component 1 resource targeting purposes, the 165 participating municipalities have been divided into
three priority areas based on Municipal Human Development Index (HDI-M), degree o f urbanization, and
total resources received duringthe first-phase Project. The 59 Area A municipalities representing the poorest
cohort will receive a total US$11.34 m. over the life o f the project (US$192,200 each), 59 Area B
municipalities will receive US$9.45 m. (US$160,700 each) and the 47 Area C municipalities US$6.20 m.
(US$132,300 each).

(2) InstitutionalDevelopment will support: (a) technical assistance and training to mobilize and strengthen
community associations in their role o f identifying, preparing, operating and maintaining subproject
investments and (b) training for the project Municipal Councils and technical advice for the State Technical
Unitfor their expanding roles under the Additional Financing; and

(3) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation will support, inter alia, the costs
(excluding salaries) of the State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring o f project implementation, and an
impact evaluation program.

Supervision ratings for the first-phase Project have consistently been fully Satisfactory, both for
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress. The latest supervision mission in April 2007 showed
the Project reaching some 363,000 people with 1,900 subproject investments in basic socio-economic and
productive infrastructure. The 2004 Brazil Country Assistance Evaluation by IEG gave the Northeast Rural
Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP) a positive overall assessment for its role in expanding the provision o f
basic socioeconomic infrastructure to the rural poor o f the Northeast region, and for its use o f project-
financed Municipal Councils to strengthen social capital, thus laying the foundation for a wider range o f

                        ~



4
'Brazil:
  IBGE Databasedon the Censusandnot updatedinterms ofHDI.
        GrowthandPovertyReductioninRio Grande do Norte- A State EconomicMemorandum, Reportno. 24891-BR, January
16, 2004.

                                                                                                          2

poverty reduction activities. The Rural Poverty Reduction Program in Northeast Brazil, including the
experience in Rio Grande do Norte, was also presented at the 2004 Shanghai Conference as a best practice
experience in scaling up a rural poverty reduction methodology.6

Reasons for Additional Financing: Rio Grande do Norte borrowed US$22.50 million under the Original
Loan. Consistent with other operations under the RPRP, the Federal Government approved borrowing by the
State o f Rio Grande do Norte for the Original Loan and indicated its willingness to support subsequent
scaling up under a second phase o f up to the same value, provided project performance under the first phase
was satisfactory. Recent Bank supervision confirms satisfactory performance. Project implementation has
continuously accelerated, and all funds under the Original Loan are fully-disbursed. The State o f Rio Grande
do Norte therefore wishes to proceed with scaling up to the full amount o f US$22.50 million authorized by
the Federal Government, which is prepared to guarantee the Additional Financing up to this amount.

Additional Financing for this Project is the most efficient and effective way to respond to the immediate
opportunity to increase development impact and coverage. Other approaches for scaling up the project, such
as a repeater project, were considered and rejected, because the need for additional financing was identified
duringproject supervision and the Borrower's request for more funds was submitted considerably before the
Closing date o f the Original Loan (currently December 3 lst, 2007). The keyjustification for additional funds
for the Project i s scaling up activities without changes to the Project objectives, design, institutional
mechanisms or target population. The amount o f the Additional Financing was determined in accordance
with the Federally-authorized amount and the State's development targets. Thus, Additional Financingwas
considered the appropriate instrument for the Bank to respond positively to the Borrower's request.
Community demand for subprojects is exceptionally strong. Over 300 community investments already
analyzed and approved by the State Technical Unit (STU) depend on the Additional Financing for
implementation and an equal number are pending in the Municipal Councils, ready to be transmitted to the
STU. Further strong community demand is expected for the Project during its implementation in the next
three years.

This Additional Financing would continue the Bank's assistance to the State o f Rio Grande do Norte and
contribute directly to the State's ability to achieve its Multi-Year Investment Program (PPA, 2004-2007).
Indeed, the State's PPA as well as the Annual Budget Law for 2007 explicitly assume that Bank support for
this Project will continue. The PPA calls for increased support for demand-driven investments to improve
rural incomes and contribute to raising the state's Human Development Index (HDI).Under the first phase,
the STU has effectively mobilized and targeted investments more intensively to communities in 24
municipalities with the lowest HDI, while continuing its regular activities in all other Project-eligible
municipalities. This strategy will be further strengthened during the Additional Financing period by
allocating differentiated financing to three groups o f municipalities within the universe o f some 165 Project-
eligible municipalities, defined by a set o f indicators including Municipal Index o f Human Development
(HDI-M),urbanization rate of municipalities and, amount of resources applied to each municipality during
the first phase project.

Consistent with the PPA strategy o f targeting the most vulnerable, the Additional Financing will also
continue to give priority to ethnic minorities, women and youth. The project will finance their participation
through information dissemination, mobilization and eligible investment activities, and provide them with a
forum for voicing priorities and influencing decision-making. The Project's Monitoring and Information
System (MIS) reveals, for example, that some 60% o f all Afro-descendent (quilombola and other)
communities in the project area have already benefited from at least one investment (32 subprojects) under
the Project. Separately, evaluations consistently demonstrate the extent to which women have benefited from
the Northeast rural poverty projects, particularly through investments in water supply, electricity and


 The RPRPis a CDD programconsisting of a set of individualstate-levelloans (either under supervision or inprocessing)totaling
US414 m. to Northeast states. These projects share similar characteristicsin terms of design, participatorymechanismsand
implementationarrangements.

                                                                                                                        3

productive activities, as well as through their leadership o f and participation in community associations7 and
burgeoning leadership role in the Municipal Councils. The Targeting Plan for the Additional Financing
envisages expanded efforts to include ethnic groups, as well as women and youth (see also Section D,
Safeguards).

Under the Project, the State has been working with the Bank to train the Municipal Councils to assess the
availability o f resources from other, non-project rural programs on behalf o f their member community
associations. This is having the effect o f strengthening the coordination and effectiveness o f those same
programs through their exposure to the Councils' participatory mechanisms for priority-setting, decision-
making and targeting. Therefore, scaling up would involve not only the Additional Financing from the Bank
but also the resources mobilized from other Federal and State programs, thus increasing overall coverage,
efficiency and impact o f anti-poverty actions in the State o f Rio Grande do Norte.

As the State and the participatory Municipal Councils have gained experience with the project strategy and
methodology, the pace o f project execution has accelerated. As mentioned above, a large number of
subproject proposals are registered in the processing portfolio o f the State Technical Unit and await
resources. The State Government has asked the Bank to proceed as rapidly as possible in processing the
scaling up and the Additional Financing instrument i s well-suited for this purpose. With the volume o f
community investment demand already established, the experience and capacity o f the State Technical Unit
and the State Government's track record o f timely and adequate counterpart funding, no difficulties are
anticipated for the State in fully utilizing the Additional Financing within the three year period. The closing
date for the Original Loan is December 3 1, 2007 and the closing date for the Additional Financing would be
December 31,2010.

As stated earlier, the Project is achieving its DevelopmentObjectives, and meeting or exceeding all principal
physical targets established at appraisal. The project is in compliance with all key Loan covenants. Regular
communications between the Bank's task team and the State Government and State Technical Unit, and with
beneficiaries in the field, confirm the strong sense o f ownership and priority o f this project, and its
consistency with and importance to, helping the State achieve its PPA.

Implementation Arrangements for the Additional Financing: All Project implementation arrangements will
continue to be the same as under the Original Loan, which have consistently been rated satisfactory on both
Development Objectives and ImplementationProgress. The Project will continue to be managed by COPES,
the State Technical Unit o f the State Secretariat for Labor, Housing and Social Assistance, as delegated by
the Rio Grande do Norte State Secretariat for Planning and Finance. The Operational Manual defined for the
Project under the Original Loan and revisedupdated for the Additional Financing, will continue to govern
project operations. Community associations will identify, prepare, implement, supervise, operate and
maintain their investments, contracting needed technical assistance directly from the market, and accessing
project-financed training and assistance from the State Technical Unit and through their Municipal Councils.
As the core project instrument for targeting project benefits and allocating project resources, the project
Municipal Councils will continue to be the critical link to local (municipal) governments and will continue to
develop capacity to play an important role in local planning and priority-setting, and in leveraging the
benefits from other, non-project poverty programs, for poor communities. The fiduciary requirements and
tasks associated with procurement and financial management are detailed in the project Operational Manual
and are satisfactory to the Bank (see below). Audit reports and reviews during supervision missions to the
State o f Rio Grande do Norte confirm the effectiveness o f the current arrangements and they will therefore
continue as is, under the Additional Financing.




7Evaluation by the Inter-AmericanInstitutefor CooperationinAgriculture (IICA, 2005) showedthat some 50% of all community
association members (socios) inRio Grande do Norte are female. Further, the project MIS shows that 30-40% of associationsare
headed by women, consistent with other participating states under this program.

                                                                                                                         4

Consistencv with the CAS: The 2004 Brazil Country Assistance Evaluation by IEG gave the Northeast Rural
Poverty ReductionProgram(RPRP) - o fwhich the project inRio Grande do Norte is part - a positive overall
assessment for its role in expanding the provision o f basic socioeconomic infrastructure to the Northeast's
rural poor and its use of project-financed Municipal Councils to strengthen social capital, thereby laying the
foundation for a wider range o f poverty reduction activities. The FY04-07 Brazil Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) indicates that successive projects under the NE rural poverty program, while continuing to
finance needed access to basic socioeconomic infrastructure in rural areas, would focus more tightly on
income-generating activities, as well as on integrating CDD components more closely with other government
activities in the participating municipalities. The proposed additional financing i s consistent with the CAS
guidance cited. Using the State's development strategy as the client-driven framework, impact would be
scaled up significantly through these integration activities, and by building synergies with other Federal and
State programs and with other Bank operations.


111.Appraisalof Scaled-up ProjectActivities

A. Economic and FinancialAnalyses

Important aspects o f project design - which will be maintained under the Additional Financing - help to
ensure that subproject investments represent the lowest-cost, best alternative: (a) the demand-driven nature o f
subproject selection helps ensure that scarce resources flow where they are most needed and that selected
subprojects are the best alternatives for the communities in question; (b) the now-established use o f standard
technical designs (projetos pudr60) and cost parameters for the most common types o f subprojects demanded
ensures that community associations implement the least-cost subproject models while decreasing associated
search and information costs; (c) delegation o f subproject implementation directly to the community
associations has been proven to generate very significant cost savings when compared to similar works
executed by public sector agencies. Contracting procedures in the Project Operational Manual permit direct
contracting by the associations, requiring for example, that they solicit a minimum o f three bids for the
subproject  .

Ex-post internal rates of return have been estimated for the most common types o f productive subprojects
which have been implemented. These exceeded on average, 30 percent. Analyses assumed constant benefits
over the subproject life cycle. Inaddition to these positive impacts, benefits tend to be largely concentrated in
the beneficiary communities. Sensitivity analysis showed that these subprojects are reasonably robust in
relationto decreases inoutput and prices, and increases inproduction costs.

Beneft-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types o f productive investments analyzed.
Analysis o f these subprojects also suggests that investments are generally financially sustainable. Although
beneficiary associations do receive a one-time matching grant, the investments tend to be sustainable because
cost recovery through user fees by the average community association i s normally adequate to cover both
O&M and replacement ofthe original investments before the end o ftheir useful economic life.

B. TechnicalAnalysis

Technical viabilitv o f the proposed project has been demonstrated over a decade o f successful CDD activity
inRio Grande do Norte.Investmentcost estimates, physical contingencies, prices and estimates ofinputsand
outputs are based on actual historical data under the earlier projects inthis State and thus considered reliable.
Technical standards o f specific subprojects will be ensured through standardized designs (including
engineering aspects, technical, financial and economic feasibility, O&M, environmental guidelines and cost
parameters) covering about 80 percent o f subproject types normally demanded by the communities. Field
evidence demonstrates that these simple, practical standards have enhanced subproject quality, sustainability
and cost-effectiveness. All subprojects will be screened by qualified STU staff, supported by technical
specialists in relevant public agencies when needed. Community associations can contract technical

                                                                                                           5

 assistance (up to 8 percent o f subproject value) to assist in subproject design and implementation. Training
 programs are also being offered to develop associations' capacity to prepare, implement, operate and
 maintain subprojects, as well as acquaint them with existing environmental regulations at the State and
 Federal level.

 C. FiduciaryAnalysis

 The Proiect's financial management system to be used under the proposed Additional Financing is the
 same as that used under the original loan and complies with OP/BP 10.02 and the new Guidelines for
Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements. The Guidelines o f Fiduciary Management for
Community-Driven Development Projects (2002) are also taken into consideration, where applicable.
Financial management, audit and procurement performance have been satisfactory under the Project. The
Financial Management Supervision conducted in August 2006 rated the Project satisfactory, finding that
accounting, financial management reporting, project management information systems and internal controls
were adequate and reliable to provide the necessary information to manage and monitor Project
 implementation. However, the STU will improve certain fiduciary issues identified under the ongoing
project, such as the documentation o f expenditures by beneficiary communities and the STU's supervision
of, and coaching provided to, those communities. The external auditors have provided unqualified opinions
 in the 2005 and 2006 audit reports on the Project Financial Statements, SOEs and Special Accounts.
 SETHAS agreed to continue having its accounts and financial statements audited by independent auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank.

Disbursements and Flow of Funds: SETHAS has decided to continue using SOEs for loan withdrawal
purposes. However, instead o f advancing funds into a US$ Special Account and then transferring those funds
into a Reais Operational Account (procedure used under the original loan), funds will be advanced from the
loan account directly into a designated bank account in local currency (Reais), at Banco do Brasil, in Natal,
RN, for the exclusive use o f the Project. SETHAS will be responsible for opening, managing and operating,
under conditions acceptable to the bank, the designated account.

ReDorting:Agreement has been reached with SETHAS and COPES on the format, content, and periodicity
o f FMRs; sample FMRs were distributed at loan negotiations. Reporting will be in local currency only. The
fourth quarter FMR, showing cumulative figures for the period, should be submitted to the auditors for
review under the annual external audit arrangements. The following un-audited FMRs should be furnishedto
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end o f each calendar quarter: FMR 1A   - Sources
by disbursement category, cumulative (project-to-date, year-to-date, and for the period); FMR 1B - Uses o f
                                                                                           and Uses o fFunds,

Funds by Project Activity-Components, cumulative (project-to-date, year-to-date, and for the period, and a
variance analysis o f actual versus planned expenditures) and by financing source; FMR 1C - Uses o f Funds
by Project Activity-Components; Cumulative (as in FMR 1B) indicating physical implementationprogress;
and FMR 1D     - Reconciliationo  f Designated Account.

Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by the STU procurement staff, which have successfully
performed these functions and are well-versed in Bank procurement policies and procedures, as verified by a
Bank Procurement Post-Review mission in May 2006. The Bank's Procurement Specialist concluded that
processes usedby the STU for project acquisitions and contracting were conducted in a satisfactory manner,
within a reasonable time period, and already according to Bank new Procurement Guidelines. Under the
Additional Financing, the new Procurement Guidelines and sanctions regime will be applicable. A
Procurement Plan following these guidelines has already been approved by the Bank in March 2007. With
the exception o f some technical assistance procured by the S T U for the community associations and
Municipal Councils, it is anticipated that most procurement undertaken with the Additional Financing would
be carried out by the beneficiary community associations, following CDD guidelines. The beneficiaries have
already demonstrated satisfactory administrative capacity in preparing the subproject proposals; this would
continue to be evaluated by the STU at the time o f their submission. The STU would also exercise overall
quality control o f procurement financed by the community subprojects. Finally, a Procurement Capacity

                                                                                                        6

Assessment carried out in September 2006 by a Bank Procurement Specialist gave the Project an overall risk
assessment o f Low.

D. Safeguards

Environment (OP 4.01): The Project is a Category B; the same rating will apply to the activities supported
by the Additional Financing. Neither the State, nor the Bank, through the project, will approve subprojects
which cause degradation to essential natural habitats. Despite the small scale o f individual investments, the
STU requires that these subprojects comply with Federal and State environmental laws. No subproject
agreement will be signed or funds transferred until the environmental viability o f the subproject is
determined. The subproject agreements eventually signed between the S T U and community associations will
contain environmental compliance clauses.

An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) prepared by the STU, with input from the principal State
environmental agencies, was submitted to the Bank for comment. Subsequently a revised EMP,
incorporating comments by the Bank on form and substance, was re-submitted to the Bank prior to
Negotiations. The revised EMP represents a continuation o f procedures already defined in the Project
Operational Manual and applied systematically and routinely, with the addition o f revised procedures
resultingfrom SAT review o f the draft EMP (see below), new developments drawn from lessons learned and
activities required under more recent environmental legislation in the State o f Rio Grande do Norte. It was
agreed at Negotiations that as a condition o f Effectiveness, the Operational Manual would be revised to
reflect revisions in the EMP covering procedures: (i)in the event that issues are identified on the
environmental checklist used for community subprojects; (ii)to identify and address potential cumulative
environmental impacts from multiple subprojects; (iii)   to ensure an integrated pest management approach in
irrigation investments, including a Pest Management Plan; and (iv) a description o f consultations concerning
the EMP. It was also agreed at Negotiationsthat this condition o f Effectiveness (Operational Manual revised
to include specific environmental requirements) would be deleted if compliance is achieved and verified by
the Bank, prior to the distribution o f project documents to the Board. The revised EMP and Project
Operational Manual will also detail the procedures for addressing Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest
Management (OP 4.09) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11). The revised
EnvironmentalManagement Planhas been posted on the State's project website and sent to the Infoshop.

Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10): The State o f Rio Grande do Norte currently has no officially-recognized

Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF) was prepared for the Project under the Original Loan or - based on the
indigenous group, although some groups are asking for such recognition. Accordingly, no Indigenous

most recent, available information - for the Additional Financing. However, the State will continue to work
with ethnic groups including quilombola (African slave-descendent communities), promoting their inclusion
while respecting their cultural identities. Updating this strategy, under the Additional Financing, the Project
will expand and consolidate assistance to ethnic communities through coordinated actions with other
governmental and non-governmental agencies also working in the Project area. Ethnic groups will be brought
into the Project through culturally-appropriate communications and outreach campaigns complemented by
training and capacity-building developed in collaboration with associatedhelevant NGOs, local leaders and
other entities.

IV.      Expected Outcomes

The proposed Additional Financing will benefit some 229,500 rural poor people in Rio Grande do Norte
through the implementation o f approximately 1,643 small-scale, basic, socio-economic infrastructure and
productive subprojects. Project outcome indicators will be similar to those under the Original Loan and the
following will be tracked: (i)the number o f rural poor families benefited, through the number of subprojects
financed and completed; (ii)improved living conditions and household incomes, using survey-based and
other data sources; (iii)non-project funds being leveraged by the community associations through their
project-supported Municipal Councils, drawing on Management Information System (MIS) data; and (iv)

                                                                                                         7

 changes in accumulated social capital o f the community associations and Municipal Councils, as measured
 by the Community Participation Index (CPI) and other methodologies.

 V.        Benefitsand Risks

 There are strong indications o f positive changes in the quality o f life for those households which have
 benefited under the Northeast Program generally and, specifically, the Original Project in Rio Grande do
Norte.

An impact evaluation study conducted in Rio Grande do Norte by the Inter-American Institute for
 Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA, 2005) surveyed communities in 80 municipalities, beneficiaries o f 323
 subprojects and members o f 103 Municipal Councils.' Among the positive impacts, it is worth mentioning
that: (a) surveyed communities were virtually unanimous in asserting that their subproject investments had
 increased community and family wellbeing; (b) 36% reported increased incomes as a direct result o f the
project; (c) 63% cited better housing, o f which 86% were now living in masonry homes with tangible
benefits; (d) 80% of all residences surveyed had acquired reliable, clean water and 45% reported improved
health as a direct result; (e) 60% had recently acquired television, refrigerator and/or parabolic antenna to
take advantage o f investments in electricity; (f) there was clear evidence o f reverse migration, i.e. family
members returningdue to improved community conditions; (8) 70% said their diet had improved with 40%
attributing this to increased employment and income; (h) 72% of all subprojects surveyed were functioning
normally without incident (60% o f all subprojects visited were operating on a daily basis); and (i)                     74% said
their community associations dealt with real community issues, while 82% said their association was
effectively resolving problems. In general, survey results indicated strong social capital gains. Regarding the
integration o f complementary programs, 45% o f all Councils were already integrating their activities with,
and leveraging added resources from, other complementary federal and state programs, while 68% o f
Council representatives said their communities had benefited from other programs through their participation
inthe Project.

These findings are supported by an evaluation o f social capital impact in Rio Grande do Norte (Costa 2005)
performed under the larger, Northeast-wide, quasi-experimental study (Binswanger 2006). Costa concluded
that the project i s highly relevant to rural development in its target municipalities; strengthens community
organization and capacity to improve livingconditions; stabilizes rural populations in their areas of origin by
reducing the needto migrate; and shows considerable efficiency inreducing rural poverty.

The scaling up to be supported under the Additional Financing presents no risks additional to those
identified for the Original Loan and for which mitigation measures have been effective during the course o f
Project implementation. Further, many risks identified at appraisal have been eliminated entirely or reduced
to negligible status, e.g., all project-eligible municipalities now have a participatory Municipal Council and
beneficiary associations represent 80% o f members o f all Councils, promoting democratic decision-making,
sound targeting and transparency. Also, evaluation shows, inter alia, that Councils can implement and
manage good quality subprojects. Therefore, the overall project risk rating remains Modest.

VI.       FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

The State o f Rio Grande do Norte has selected a fixed-spread loan (FSL) in US.Dollars with commitment-
linkedand levelrepayment o f principal, a four-year grace period, and seventeen years o f total loan term. The
State has also opted for the possibility o f currency and interest rate conversions and establishment o f interest


* The IICA evaluation  survey also used a control group of 152 families residing in 102communities surveyed in 1998 for the
BaselineStudy (perfil de entrudu) and which, up to end-December 2003, hadnot benefited from the Project. Among the subprojects
surveyed by IICA, infrastructure was representedheavily by water supply and electricity, while productive investmentswere
predominantly animal husbandry (goats, sheep) and irrigatedagriculture. Both types demonstrate many success stories in this state
due to their contributionto employment and income, suitability to local conditions, and contributionto strengtheningassociative
action.

                                                                                                                             8

rate caps and collars, automatic conversion o f the Loan variable interest rate into a fixed interest rate, and the
capitalization o f the front-end fee under the Additional Financing. The selection reflects the State's
preference for contracting loans which permit the matching o f its asset and liability management objectives.

VII.    Allocation of LoanProceeds

              ExpenditureCategory                      Project     Financing       Allocationof Loan
                                                       Costin      Percentage      Proceeds(US$m.)
                                                       US$m.
1. Grants for Community Suburoiects
   (a) Area 1 Grants                                    10.50          75%                 7.875
   (b) Area 2 Grants                                    10.00          75%                 7.50
   (c) Area 3 Grants                                     5 .OO         75%                 3.75
2. Consultants' services and training for Parts B, C
and D o fthe Project                                   1.72625        100%                1.72625
3. Administrative Costs
   (a) incremental operational costs                     0.70          20%                 0.14
   (b) project supervision andmonitoring costs           0.80          50%                 0.40
4. Fee                                                     0                                  0
5. Unallocated                                         1.27375                            1.10875
                                                Total   30.00                              22.50




                                                                                                             9

                                          Annex 1: ProjectResultsFramework



 Improvewellbeing, employment and            Evidence of improvedliving conditions          Periodic evaluation of project
 incomes of the rural poor through        at beneficiary householdlevel.'            mpact on employment and incomes.
 better access to basic social and           Proportionof productive investments            Ongoing assessment of
economic infrastructure and services,     generatingfull-time employment for         ippropriateness of project strategy.
                                          I.
and support for productive activities.    beneficiary families.                             Inputto State's re-calculation of
                                                   ior productive subprojects exceed 1DI-Min2010.
                                          12%


                                                                                        1  Assess social capital formation and
                                                                                        ustainability.
                                                                                        1  Validate ongoing project
                                                     es demonstratecapacity to          iarticipatorymethodology.



                                                                                        1 Ongoing assessment of project's
                                                                                     :ffects/impact on local governance.




                                                                                          Assess Project mechanisms for
                                                                                          promoting sector integration.
                                                                                         Assess effectivenessof project
                                                                                          participatory mechanisms for
                                                                                          leveraging additional funds.

other complementary programs.




                                                                                         Project's role in and capacity to
                                                       ommunities benefited in           improve family wellbeing
                                                                                            Y1-3:Track geographiccoverage
                                                                                         and depth of investment.
                                                                                            Y1-3: Ongoing assessment of
                                                                                         project targeting effectiveness.
                                          employment and income.                           MTR: Assess effectivenessof
                                            Women receive minimum 30%of all              Municipal Council participatory
                                          productive subprojects.                        decision-making and priority-setting
                                          Min.50% reduction inincidenceofwater-          for subproject investments.


                                                                                           Y2/3: Input to MTR and
                                                                                     Completion Report to assess degree to
                                                                                     which training and T A increases
CAS,MCs and STU staff receive                                                        effectivenessof project STU, Councils
                                                                                     and associations.

O&M, productive activities,




  Via field data collection and analysis (and dependingon types of investments) measuring inter alia, reducedincidenceof water-
borne disease, betterfamily hygiene, access to educational and productive services/facilities.

                                                                                                                              10

Component3: Administration,
Supervision, Monitoring and          EOP: Two independentproject audits      Ongoingconfirmationofadequate
Evaluation                         completedireviewedandathird contracted. project coordinationand
                                     EndY1:Baseline study completedand     administrationand as needed,
Project coordinationand            reviewedby Bank                         recommendimprovements.
administration, includingfinancial   EndY2: Fullphysicalperformance          MTR andY3: Gaugecompletion
managementlauditandprocurement,    study completedandreviewedfor MTR.      and quality of subprojects
conductedaccordingto Bank            EOP: STUhas finalizedone full-scale,  implemented.
requirementdstandards.             impactevaluationstudy and Bank has        Y3: Assess poverty, employment
                                   reviewed.                               and income, and social capitalimpact
                                                                           of Projecton beneficiaries.




                                                                                                               11




