Document of                       a %Er
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2886-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY FIELD
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
October 30, 1980
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Calendar 1978     July 1979      Jan. 1980 A      October 1980
US Dollar 1    -      TL 24.28         TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.0 /3      TL 83.50 -/3
TL 1           *      US$ 0.04        US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01        US, 0.01
/1 Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 70/$1 was
used for this report.
/2 Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL 35 - US$1.00.
/3 Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL 55 - US$1.00, and is TL 70.0 - US$1.00 as from October 1980.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Barrel (Bbl)                 m 0.159 cubic meters (m3)
1 Cubic foot (CF)              =  0.028 m3
1 British Thermal Unit (BTU)  =  0.252 kilocalories (Kcal)
1 Kilowatt hour (Kwh)          =  2.978 Kcal
1 Metric ton (mT) of oil,
350 API                    =  7.3 Bbl
1 Kilometer (km)               =  0.621 miles
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey             March 1 to February 28
Turkiye Petrolleri
Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO)      January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bbls    -   Barrels
BOTAS   -   Boru Hatilari ile Petrol Tasima A.S. (Petroleum Pipeline
Corporation)
CO2     -   Carbon dioxide
EOR     -   Enhanced Oil Recovery
GDPA    -   General Directorate of Petroleum Affairs
GOT     -   Government of Turkey
GWh     -   Gegawatt (1,000,000 kilowatts)
IPRAS   -   Istanbul Petrol Rafinerisi Anonim Sirketi
MCF/d   -   Thousand cubic feet per day
MENR-   -   Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MMCF/d  -   Million cubic feet per day
MW      -   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
SPO     -   State Planning Organization
TEK     -   Turkiye Elektrik Kuruma (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI     -   Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal
Enterprises)
TOE     -   Metric tons of oil equivalent in heating value
TPAO    -   Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum
Corporation)
TPY     -   Tons per year
TSKB    -   Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (Industrial Development
Bank of Turkey)
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY FIELD DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;              Republic of Turkey
Beneficiary;           Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO)
Amount;                US$62 million equivalent
Terms.                 Seventeen years including four years of grace, with
interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms;       Seventeen years including four years of grace, at not
less than 11.10 percent per annum. Beneficiary will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description;  The project includes:  (i) The Bati Raman enhanced oil
recovery field test - a field demonstration test of the
carbon dioxide (C02) injection enhanced oil recovery
(EOR) technology, on a limited area of the Bati Raman
reservoir for evaluating its suitability and determining
the data required for designing a full field project.
It consists of drilling of additional five wells at the
Dodan gas field to provide the CO2 requirements,
laying of a pipeline 75 km long to transport 55 million
cft. per day of carbon dioxide gas from the Dodan gas
field to the Bati Raman oil field, drilling of five
additional wells and the preparation of 30 wells to
handle CO2 injection and oil production through the
installation of associated surface and sub-surface
equipment, and the testing and evaluation of the results.
(ii) the Raman oil field development - a production
component covering the drilling and completion of 18 new
production wells, along with provision of associated
surface and sub-surface equipment in a newly discovered
extension of the Raman oil field, and a reservoir
analysis study to determine the optimum approach to an
enhanced oil recovery program for the field.
(iii) the Thrace (Hamitabat) gas field - an evaluation
of the production potential of the Thrace gas field to
provide reliable estimates of gas reserves and produc-
tivity, through the stimulation of the gas field by
fracturing six to ten wells and a study to determine the
optimum use of the gas.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv) Management studies - to strengthen TPAO's
operations and management capabilities through the
review of organizational structure, systems of internal
communication, financial planning and management systems.
The project will help to; (i) expand the recoverable
reserves of Turkey's largest proven reservoir through
the application of new enhanced oil recovery techniques,
thereby improving its medium-term production capacity;
(ii) increase Turkey's crude oil production in the
short-term by developing the newly discovered oil
reserves in the Raman oil field; and (iii) evaluate the
gas reserves and production potential of a newly dis-
covered gas field. The Bati Raman EOR sub-project is
the first field application of carbon dioxide injection
into a heavy oil reservoir. There is an inherent risk
that it may prove less successful than projected. The
risks are normal in other sub-projects.
Estimated Costs;
Local    Foreign    Total
…-----(US$ million)------
1. Bati Raman EOR
1.1  Wells drilling and workover                  6.6       6.6        13.2
1.2  Surface field facilities                     7.7      15.2        22.9
1.3  Gas pipeline                                 3.7       6.0         _.7
1.4  Prefeasibility, engineering /1               0.5       2.5         3.0
1.5  Design, supervision and training             1.0       2.5         3.5
1.6 Chemicals, monitoring and
evaluation                                2.2        2.6         4.8
21.7      35.4        57.1
2. Raman Field Development
2.1 Wells drilling and completion
and general drilling equipment            4.8        5.4        10.2
2.2  Water disposal                               1.0       0.4         1.4
2.3  Reservoir study                              0.2       0.7         0.9
6.0       6.5        12.5
3. Thrace (Hamitabat) Gas Field
3.1  Wells' stimulation and equipment             0.7       2.2         2.9
3.2 Gas reserves and utilization
study                                     0.1        0.4         0.5
0.8       2.6         3.4
/1 Represents the refinancing of $2.5 million engineering loan (S-13-TU).



-iii -
Local    Foreign    Total
…-----(US$ million)-
4.  Technical Assistance and Training                 0.5        1.0         1.5
Sub-Total                                  29.0       45.5        74.5
Physical Contingency                        5.5        8.9        14.4
Price Contingency                            5.5       7.6        13.1
TOTAL                                      40.0       62.0       102.0
Financing Plan.
Local    Foreign    Total
------…(Us million)------
Bank                                         -        62.0        62.0
TPAO                                       40.0        -          40.0
TOTAL                                 40.0       62.0      102.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY         1981      1982    1983    1984
--------(US$ million)-------
Annual                                     12.0      40.0     5.5      4.5
Cumulative                                 12.0      52.0    57.5    62.0
Economic Rate of Return: 60 percent for the Raman field development
component. ERR not applicable to other components.
Appraisal Report; No. 3093-TU dated October 17, 1980






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY FIELD DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$62 million to help finance
the foreign exchange costs of a Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demon-
stration Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan will
be on-lent to Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO) for 17 years, inclu-
ding 4 years grace, at not less than 11.10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled "Turkey.
Policies and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979 and its Postscript
on March 24, 1980. A small mission visited Turkey in May 1980 to update
information and Bank analysis of the country's economic prospects. Its
findings are reflected below. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3. As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and modernization,
GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent and 7.2
percent respectively, during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan (1968-
1972), and Third Plan (1973-1977) periods. This compares favorably with the
experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP growth
averaged a little under 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-1978. Moreover,
the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was achieved without significant
deposits of oil or other important natural resources.
4.       Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew annually at 2.5 percent, rapid GDP growth allowed substantial
advances in per capita income. However, rising income levels were not accom-
panied by better income distribution. Although basic needs have been met,
significant sectoral and regional inequalities in income continue.
5.       The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-1977, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
1/ This Part is identical to Part I of the President's Reports on the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement) (P-2888-TU) expected to be
considered by the Executive Directors in late November and the Petroleum
Exploration Project (P-2887-TU) dated October 30, 1980.



percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-1977 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.       Turkish development between 1963-1977, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent in
1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent for
middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance of
payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed inflow
of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment relative
to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP, is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-1970s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary
pressures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a
relatively high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflec-
ting significant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job
creation in non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to
other large middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate
generation of additional employment has become more serious following the near
cessation of workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the
growing dynamism of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by
inefficient State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to
market forces and serve not only economic but social goals; their growing
deficits have imposed an inflationary burden on the budget, while their
ambitious investment programs were financed through Central Bank borrowings,
since their controlled prices have, until recently not enabled most of them to
generate sufficient cash to cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth,
due to the successes achieved since the early sixties through economic
planning, there has been an increasing tendency to plan to a micro-level and
seek to achieve changes through administrative fiat; however, the economy has
reached a stage where such excessive reliance on this becomes counter produc-
tive; planning needs to be increasingly geared towards setting a framework in
which market forces could secure the desired economic results in both the
public and private sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts
7. These institutional and structural characteristics of the economy made it
particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import prices (including oil)
in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession, inflation and rising
unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors played a key part in
the deterioration of the economy. However, the politically weak governments,



their policies in response to these factors and their efforts to pursue a high
growth policy despite the worsening international environment through
increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together created forces
that brought about the economic crisis in mid-1977 which is still continuing.
The detailed analysis of this crisis, and of Turkey's attempts to stabilize
the economy in the short-run up to late 1979, is provided in the above-
mentioned Special Economic Report and Postscript, as well as in paras. 8 to 15
of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural Adjust-
ment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.       Despite domestic and international efforts, 1979 was another diffi-
cult year for the economy: production stagnated, unemployment increased,
inflation accelerated, the balance of payments position remained tight, export
performance was poor, severe import rationing continued and the external debt
position remained precarious. Policy initiatives taken till then proved
inadequate to reverse the tide, as political and economic uncertainties con-
tinued to erode the impact of the measures taken.
9.       Compared to a growth of 3 percent in 1978, GDP stagnated in 1979.
Value added in agriculture increased by 2.5 percent, and in services by about
1 percent, but in industry value added declined by about 2 percent. In agri-
culture, further growth was held back by a sizeable decline in production of
industrial crops, mainly cotton, and a bad olive crop; the area cultivated
declined, due to shortages of fuel and fertilizers. In industry, worsening
shortages of imported raw materials and energy, especially oil, led to a
decline in production of about 3.5 percent. Production of manufacturing SEEs
declined by about 2 percent, and was manifested by decreases of 28 percent in
cement production, 9 percent in steel production and 51 percent in certain
petroleum production and processing operations. In contrast, the construction
and transport sectors grew modestly, but insufficiently to overcome the
decline in other sectors. This stagnation was accompanied by unprecedented
inflation of about 65 percent in 1979.
10.      The overall public sector deficit increased from TL 80 billion in
1978 to TL 132 billion in 1979. It was financed mainly by borrowing from the
Central Bank (TL 70 billion). The consolidated budget and the operations of
the SEEs were almost equally responsible for the enlarged deficit. The
deterioration in the consolidated budget was caused mainly by a sharp increase
in transfers to the SEEs, which in 1979 amounted to TL 89 billion.
11.      On the external account, there was a marginal decline in the value of
recorded exports of goods to $2.3 billion, although in volume terms, exports
actually declined by an estimated 17 percent. The value of merchandise
imports was about 10 percent higher than the previous year at $5.1 billion;
but due to substantial price increases, the volume is estimated to have
declined by 19 percent. The current account deficit in 1979 was the same as
in 1978, i.e. around $1.7 billion.
12.      Turkey achieved some success in diversifying the sources, and
increasing the level, of M&LT commitments, including t250 million in project
credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived



-4-
at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in special assis-
tance, including about $900 million in M&LT bilateral credits and export
credits, besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial banks
(finalized in September 1979). However, actual capital inflows were about the
same as the previous year.
13.      Also, throughout 1979, Turkey made a major effort to alleviate the
critical burden of external debt through; (a) slowing the growth of shortterm
liabilities; (b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new
sources of credits, especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation,
arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consoli-
dation of $1.14 billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT
debt, as well as amounts due over the thirteen month period May 21, 1978 to
June 30, 1979.  A second major rescheduling took place in July 1979, involving
payments of about $1.02 billion on official bilateral and private guaranteed
credits due between July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980. A third major arrange-
ment, finalized in July and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled
convertible lira deposits ($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and
third party reimbursement credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil
debt was also rescheduled. The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5
billion. This was perhaps the largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
Even so, net arrears of about $500 million emerged given the remaining high
debt service burden in 1979.
January 1980 Structural Adjustment Program and Policy Objectives
14.      Against this background, it was quite clear that drastic and painful
stabilization measures were not enough to reverse the adverse economic tide.
What was needed, was a major program of long-term structural adjustments, if
the economy was first to be nursed back to normalcy and then to resume viable
growth. Such a bold and far-reaching program of policies to effect structural
adjustments in the economy over the medium term was announced on January 25,
1980, accompanied by initial measures to implement adjustments in certain
critical areas. These were described and discussed in detail in the
President's Report (No. P-2725-TU dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan. The policy objectives underlying, the program, and the
measures it initiated, represent a basic departure from past planning
objectives. Turkey has undertaken, through it, the essential first steps to
foster major structural and institutional changes in the key economic areas.
15.      The program's stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of
the economy" calls for: Ci) greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces,
by both the public and private sectors; (ii) reduction in the rate of infla-
tion; (iii) improved management of the balance of payments and external debts;
(iv) policies to encourage the public and private sectors to be efficient and
internationally competitive; (v) the implementation of rational exchange rate
policies and of measures encouraging exports; (vi) domestic resource mobiliza-
tion efforts to be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts,
realistic SEE pricing, and increased private savings via the banking system
and the development of financial markets; (vii) an investment policy aimed at



fuller utilization of existing productive capacity and completion of ongoing
projects requiring modest inputs, and tailored to scarce resources; and (viii)
conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry and agriculture.
16.      Successful implementation of this program over the medium-term, will
require persistence and courageous action on the part of the Government. It
will also call for substantial support from the international community, with-
out which it is unlikely to succeed. However, if Turkey implements it
vigorously, and periodically makes critical in-depth reviews as to the impact
of the measures and what further modifications and adjustments are needed to
achieve the program's economic goals, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and re-establish a path of stable economic growth.
17.      Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a modi-
fication of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement and the release of
larger second and third tranches on February 21 and March 24, 1980. In addi-
tion, SDR 71.6 million ($93 million) in compensatory financing for export
shortfalls was provided on February 21, 1980, together with the modification
of the Standby. Together, this resulted in the provision of $301 million (SDR
231.6 million), with the remaining $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be provided
in June. However, on June 18, this Standby was cancelled. Instead, the IMF
Board approved a new three-year Standby Arrangement involving SDR 1.25 billion
($1.63 billion), with SDR 460 million ($600 million) in the first year, SDR
400 million ($522 million) in the second year and SDR 390 million ($509
million) in the third year. The key conditions of the new Standby are that;
(i) exchange rate policy is to be kept more flexible; (ii) the financial
position of the public sector is to be improved, mainly as a result of the
restructuring of the operational policies of the SEEs; (iii) monetary condi-
tions are to be kept extremely tight, as a result of the observance of limits
on Central Bank lending; and (iv) interest rates are to be adjusted to reflect
market conditions.
18.      In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the provision of
sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief operation. In
meetings under OECD auspices in March and April, $1.16 billion of bilateral
aid was pledged, with much more rapid disbursements than in 1979. The Bank
also supported OECD's and IMF's efforts through a $200 million Structural
Adjustment Loan in March 1980. Furthermore, about $2.5 billion in service
payments to OECD countries on public and publicly-guaranteed debts falling due
prior to June 1983 were rescheduled, again under OECD auspices, in July 1980.
This included all arrears up to June 30, 1980, payments due prior to June 1983
on debt not previously rescheduled, and payments due up to June 1981 on debt
already rescheduled in 1978 or 1979. Ninety percent of these sums were
rescheduled over 8 to 10 years, including 4 to 5 years of grace. With these
developments, Turkey secured debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and
another $0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. The only
sizeable new commitment in recent months has been a $250 million cash loan on
15 year low-interest terms from Saudi Arabia, of which $100 million has been
disbursed, with another $100 million scheduled for December and the balance
for March 1981. Turkey has approached leading commercial banks to secure a



softening of the terms of the August 1979 rescheduling agreement. After con-
siderable delay due to wariness on the part of banks both of a new resche-
duling and, to some extent, of extending new credit to Turkey, a modest syndi-
cated loan is under discussion. The Government will try to reduce to the
extent possible the current and prospective large net outflow of funds to the
commercial banks.
Economic Developments in 1980 and Outlook for 1981
19.      As expected, the initial impact of the January 1980 package has been
to exacerbate many of the economic pressures. Uncertainty about the course of
future policies and about the timing and pace of economic recovery, as well as
tight monetary conditions aimed at reducing aggregate demand, have slowed
investments and economic growth. Devaluation and the removal of price
controls on both private business and SEEs, while necessary to alleviate
allocative distortions in the economy, contributed to a large initial upsurge
in the rate of inflation. Also as expected, the financial rehabilitation of
the SEEs and their reorientation to market conditions has only begun, and will
require more fundamental changes than price liberalization alone over the
medium term. Budgetary transfers to the SEEs to cover remaining operating
subsidies and investment expenditures have continued to rise. The budget
position as a whole continues to be weak. It is still too early to say
whether the initial adjustment phase is over. However, preliminary data
suggest that the worst may be past. Inflation has come down sharply, and
indeed more rapidly than expected (next paragraph); the impact of higher
import prices (especially for oil) has been alleviated (though so far only for
1980) by a commensurate increase in capital inflows; and recent production
figures suggest that 1980 may see a very modest resumption of economic growth.
20.      For the full year, GDP growth is likely to be between zero and 2
percent, with growth in agriculture of about 2.5 percent, but stagnation in
industry. Public investment has continued to fall in real terms for lack of
financial resources, and private investment remains depressed. Unemployment
is still rising, and real disposable incomes are falling. As mentioned above,
inflation--which averaged over 100 percent on an annual basis in early
1980--has since slowed considerably, and expectations are that over the
remainder of this year it will be about 2 percent per month. The fiscal and
monetary situation remains difficult. There has been a substantial increase
in Government expenditures over previous forecasts, in line with inflation.
However, there is evidence of tax revenues lagging behind inflation, and sub-
stantial arrears have built up in tax collection. SEE operations will show a
small profit this year after several years of mounting deficits.  However, to
finance their investments and debt repayments, budgetary transfers to SEEs
will rise again to TL 138 billion. As a result, the budget deficit is likely
to be TL 155 billion in spite of a further accumulation of Government arrears
vis-a-vis the private sector. Pressures have therefore built up to expand
Central Bank credit, which is strictly limited under the IMF Standby Arrange-
ment. Nevertheless, the first discussions under the Standby were satisfac-
torily concluded at the end of August, and the second drawing was made avail-
able on schedule on September 29. However, a request is being made to the IMF
Board shortly for a small increase in the ceilings on Central Bank net



domestic assets and credit to the public sector to accommodate crop purchases
by the Soil Products Office (particularly of wheat) without impinging on the
availability of financing for the private sector, especially for exports.
21.      The balance of payments position remains quite tight.  Over the first
eight months of 1980, the value of merchandise exports was only 6 percent
higher than in the corresponding period of 1979. However, taking into account
the seasonal rise in agricultural exports, the end of various labor disputes
in industry, and the rising trend in production, and provided markets recently
IL      established in the Middle East are not long disrupted by the Iran-Iraq war,
the Government projects exports of $2.8 billion for the year as a whole, com-
pared to $2.3 billion last year. While the value of merchandise imports is
expected to be considerably higher than in 1979--$6.7 billion (including $3.2
billion for oil) as against $5.1 billion, the volume increase will be negli-
gible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil. As a result,
fairly severe import rationing continues. Workers' remittances have increased
strongly this summer and should reach $1.8 billion for the year as a whole.
Even so, it is estimated that the current account deficit will increase from
$1.7 billion in 1978 and 1979 to $3.1 billion in 1980. Capital inflows will
also be higher than last year, with gross public M&LT disbursements expected
to be about $2.2 billion, given the Government's concerted effort to disburse
the pipeline of OECD sponsored external assistance pledged in May 1979 and
April 1980. Moreover, the massive July rescheduling (para. 18) has eased the
external debt position considerably.
22.      The outlook for 1981 is slightly more promising, although the balance
of payments position is likely to remain extremely difficult. It is too early
to predict the impact the Iran-Iraq war may have, given that these two
countries normally provide nearly 55 percent of Turkey's oil imports on favor-
able terms. Assuming the impact can be mitigated, the growth rate of real GDP
is projected to be about 3 percent, with value added in agriculture and
industry growing on the order of 3 and 4 percent respectively. Investment is
likely to grow only by about 1 percent, after real falls in recent years. The
Government hopes to reduce the rate of inflation substantially again. The
external position is expected to remain tight. Exports should grow by about
20 percent to $3.4 billion, and imports by about 16 percent to $7.8 billion,
in nominal terms. As in 1980, the volume increase in imports is likely to be
negligible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil, and hence
import rationing will have to continue. With only a modest rise in service
receipts and workers' remittances, the current account deficit in 1981 is
expected to be $3.6 billion, or $500 million more than in 1980. Turkey has
already begun to make preparations to meet the very large financing gap in
1981, and hopes to secure considerably higher capital inflows than in 1980,
particularly gross public M&LT disbursements which need to be around $3.5
billion. Apart from the Bank, IMF and commercial bank loans arranged or being
processed, the Government intends to seek further special aid from OECD
members in 1981.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
23.      The international oil situation, following the substantial end-1979
price increases, has a major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey



- 8 -
allows only a marginal increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a
gradual resumption of growth, the oil import bill is estimated to increase
from $3.2 billion in 1980 to $6.1 billion by 1985; as a percentage of merchan-
dise exports and non-factor services, this is equivalent to about 83 percent
in 1980 and is likely to remain at about 70 percent until 1985. The pressure
this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments position is
obvious. The projected current account deficit as a percent of GNP in current
dollars increased from 3 percent in 1979 to about 8 percent in 1980 and is
projected to remain at or above 5 percent until 1984. Considering the limita-
tion on available external assistance and given the need for continued sound
external debt management, Turkey can sustain the projected annual current
account deficits of the order of $3-3.5 billion annually in the short run,
given further quick-disbursing assistance in 1981; the deficits are projected
to decline to a sustainable $2.5 billion annually in the next few years.
24.      Taking into account international inflation and the substantial obli-
gations for debt amortization, despite the July 80 debt rescheduling, this
situation necessitates a large and sharply increasing annual average gross
inflow of foreign capital, rising to $4 to 5 billion during the next five
years.   Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be sustained on the
basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt service obliga-
tions are likely to remain high over the coming 5 years. In 1979, total debt
service payments were 26 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances after rescheduling payments. The ratio is projected to
rise to around 45 percent in 1984, taking account of the July 1980 debt
rescheduling. This, however, should represent the culmination of the finan-
cial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should remain
manageable, provided the structural adjustment policies are successfully
implemented and the export drive is sustained.
25.      Given the accumulation of economic problems of the last three years,
the political difficulties, the significantly increased cost of oil imports,
and the difficulty of significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, Bank
projections suggest that GDP growth in real terms may average around 4 percent
p.a. with a real growth of exports about 9 percent p.a. during 1980-1985.
These growth rates appear attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate
economic measures (including those announced in January 1980), and taking into
account the low export base and present underutilization of capacity.
26.      The recent political changes do not change these expectations
regarding economic developments. The military government which assumed power
on September 12 is determined to pursue the program of structural adjustments
announced in January 1980, as well as economic policies and commitments agreed
with the Bank, IMF and members of the OECD Consortium for Turkey. Indeed, two
days after the takeover, both the Bank and the IMF were officially informed of
this decision. A civilian Cabinet, responsible to the military's new National
Security Council, has been named, with the principal architect of the recent
economic policy reforms, Mr. Ozal, assuming the position of Deputy Prime
Minister for economic affairs. Its program confirms the commitment to



continue implementing the January 1980 program, and the intention to introduce
those portions of it which have been blocked hitherto by deadlock in
Parliament.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
27.      A large lending program for Turkey began following the introduction
of its 1970 Stabilization Program.  To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $2,573
million, through 60 projects. Agriculture accounts for 23 percent of funds
lent, industry and DFCs for 37 percent, power for 13 percent and urban
development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of September 30, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has been
satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst ministries
and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project implementation in
the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between
Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted in distinct,
but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was again reviewed
with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed with the then Prime
Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level
coordination team. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving
realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of June 1980, disburse-
ments increased to 70 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in
June 1975. The encouraging progress allows cautious optimism that performance
can be gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by the new
factors including shortages of resources.
29.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially; (a) the pursuit of an export oriented develop-
ment strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the priorities implicit in the
present situation--especially completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on
quick-yielding new investments, and balance of payments impact. The Bank has
discussed with the Government how its overall lending can best contribute to
the latter's medium-term objectives, without projects being handicapped by
past policy and institutional obstacles. A series of proposed structural
adjustment loans are envisaged, at the Government's request, to support its
program of structural adjustments to be implemented in the medium-term,
1/ This part is identical to Part II of the President's Reports on the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement) (P-2888-TU) expected to be
considered by the Executive Directors in late November and the Petroleum
Exploration Project (P-2887-TU) dated October 30, 1980.



- 10 -
through specific detailed measures and policy actions under the period that
may be covered by each such loan. Agriculture, industry and energy will be
the key sectors for project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize
livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Energy projects underway are in power generation
based on domestic hydro and lignite resources; future projects will emphasize
the oil/gas sub-sector. Projects for urban development and public utilities
supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a close macroeconomic and
sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector work planned over the
next several months includes special studies of the public investment program
and of industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and completion of sector
memoranda on agriculture and industry.  In addition, the progress made in
fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the context of each
future structural adjustment loan.
30.      A supplement to the Structural Adjustment Loan is expected to be
considered by the Executive Directors in November 1980. Besides this, and the
oil exploration project being concurrently presented to the Executive
Directors, other projects likely to be presented this fiscal year include
loans for a second fruits and vegetables project, urban employment generation
in selected cities, industrial finance, fertilizer industry rehabilitation,
besides a second structural adjustment loan. Projects being processed for
later consideration include; rural development, seed production, sewerage
development in Istanbul, paper or cement modernization and promotion of export
oriented industries.
31.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (inclu-
ding short-term obligations) was 8.0 percent in 1979, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and 12.5 percent by 1985. Its share of service pay-
ments is projected to fall slightly from 8.8 percent in 1979 to 6.4 percent in
1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
32.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of September 30, 1980,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $212 million, of which $94 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND OIL SUB-SECTOR 1/
Background
33.      Petroleum supply has become the focal point of the economic problems
that Turkey faces today. Indeed, it would be difficult to overemphasize the
critical nature of the problem. The share of crude oil in Turkey's overall
1/ This part is identical to Part III of the President's Report on the
Petroleum Exploration Project (P-2887-TU) dated October 30, 1980.



- II -
energy requirements has increased sharply over the lost two decades, from 20
percent in 1960 to 54 percent in 1979. Domestic oil production, which
declined slowly through most of the 1970's in the absence of significant new
oil discoveries, currently accounts for only about 17 percent of Turkey's
overall oil requirements of about 17 million tons per annum. While petroleum
imports of $1.4 billion in 1978 absorbed 60 percent of mer-tindise exports
earnings, they were about $2.4 billion in 1979, consuming all merchandise
export earnings, and are likely to total about $3.2 billion in 1980.
Energy Resources
34.      Although coal was Turkey's most important energy source in the
immediate post-war period, its production has been decreasing for the past 20
years. In 1978, estimated recoverable reserves of hard coal were about 120
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), while oroduction was about 2.7 million
TOE, i.e., 16 percent of total energy production.  i,'aite reserves are
extensive, with proven reserves estimated at 1.1 billion TOE; however lignite
is by and large of poor quality and its production in 1978 was about 4.6
million TOE.
35.      Hydro potential is estimated at 145,000 GWh (35 million TOE), of
which about half was considered to be economically usable in 1976. Consi-
dering the increase in energy prices since, the proportion would be even
higher today. In 1978, the generation of 9,400 GWh (2.3 million TOE) of hydro
electricity accounted for 14 percent of all energy produced, but only 7
percent of total consumption. Installed capacity is planned to grow from
2,100 MW in 1979 to 8,100 MW in 1986. Animal and vegetable wastes and wood
continue to be important fuel sources. However, their production has not
grown significantly in the past two decades aud their contribution to total
energy consumption has declined from over 50 percent in 1960 to less than 20
percent in 1978.
36.      The most recent estimates put Turkey's proven petroleum reserves
recoverable by primary techniques at about 17 million tons. This represents
barely one year's consumption. Potential reserves from known oil reservoirs
using new enhanced oil recovery methods could, if proven successful, multiply
this by more than five. There are also a few potentially economical small gas
fields. Petroleum production reached a peak of 3.6 million tons in 1969 and
then declined slowly to about 2.7 million tons in 1978. Domestic petroleum
production is principally in the hands of three companies: two foreign oil
companies, Shell and Mobil, which together account for about 65 percent, and
the Turkish Petroleum Corporation (TPAO) which accounts for a third.
Patterns of Energy Consumption
37.      Per capita energy consumption in Turkey increased during 1960-77 at
an average annual rate of 6.7 percent (12.8 percent in 1974-76), compared to
an average annual growth rate of GNP per capita of 4.1 percent. However, per
capita consumption of 495 kg of oil equivalent in 1976 remained below the
average of 611 kg for 55 middle income countries. Energy consumption per



- 12 -
dollar of GDP rose from 0.3 kg in 1960 to 0.5 kg in 1976, but again was below
average for middle income countries.
38.      The most important trends in the energy use pattern since 1960 have
been the increasing share of petroleum, which now accounts for over half of
total energy consumption, and the decreasing share of hard coal and non-
commercial fuels. With a high GNP growth and domestic petroleum prices con-
trolled at levels well below international levels until late 1977, the volume
of petroleum imports grew rapidly; from 1973 to 1977 the average increase was
13 percent per annum, well above real growth rate of GDP of 7.2 percent per
annum.  Sharp increases in petroleum product prices since late 1977 and a
scarcity of foreign exchange resulted in the containment of oil imports to
around 14 million tons in 1978 through 1980. The financial crises of late
1979 and early 1980 caused the Government to end its policy of large scale
subsidies for petroleum and petroleum products. Consumer prices in Turkey, up
to mid 1980, are showni below.
CONSUMER PRICES FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
(in dollars per gallon)
Turkey                 France    USA
1971     1974      1977    1980      1980    1980
July     Feb.      Sept.   June      June    June
Premium gasoline                 0.49     0.90      1.44    2.45      3.12      1.29
Regular gasoline                 0.38     0.72      1.22    2.19      2.93      1.21
Kerosene                         0.38     0.63      0.76    1.33       NA       1.25
Diesel fuel                      0.32     0.64      0.89    1.33      2.19      1.17
Residual heating fuel No. 6       NA       NA       0.46    0.94      1.45      0.71
It should be noted that since mid 1980, in line with its policy of raising
these prices to levels in Europe, the Government further raised consumer
prices at the end of September 1980, on an average by about 20 cents/gallon.
Energy Policy and Planning
39.      The Fourth Five Year Plan 1978-83 anticipated a 9.6 percent growth in
energy consumption, based on an 8 percent annual GDP growth. However, given
Turkey's current severe economic difficulties, the Government is reviewing the
Fourth Plan targets and priorities. Its GDP growth prospects are much more
modest; correspondingly, the growth in energy consumption will be lower.
40.      Recognizing the heavy burden oil imports impose on its balance of
payments, the Government's energy policy is to develop indigenous alternative
energy resources of coal/lignite and hydropower, as well as to intensify
exploration for and production of oil.  The Government is also trying to
restrain oil demand through the price mechanism, and is reviewing measures to
substitute lignite for oil in residential and industrial heating uses.



- 13 -
41.      While energy investments are being given high priority within limited
financial resources now available, the Government has yet to establish proper
priorities amongst the various ongoing and proposed investments in the power
and coal sub-sectors. However, it is beginning to address power sub-sector
planning, coordination, financing and pricing issues, in the context of the
Bank-assi,ted Karakaya Hydropower Project. Moreover, TKI, the SEE responsible
for coal/lignite development, will have to substantially increase its produc-
tivity, if the increased coal and lignite needs are to be met. Given the high
capital costs and long implementation periods required for these large-scale
projects, even a limited level of substitution will take place only gradu-
ally. As a result, unless major new discoveries of petroleum are made, Turkey
will remain heavily dependent on imported oil in the foreseeable future. The
Government is basically adopting two approaches to augment domestic oil
production: (i) introduction of enhanced oil recovery (EOR) technology for
existing oil fields and (ii) intensification of exploration and development of
new fields by the Turkish Petroleum Corporation and by foreign oil companies.
The heavy oil technology being tested in the present project could, according
to consultants, triple current overall recoverable reserves.
Petroleum Exploration
42.      Petroleum exploration activity in recent years has been undertaken
almost exclusively by TPAO. While seventy foreign companies had taken explor-
ation concessions and 512 exploration wells were drilled through 1978, the
late 1960's and early 1970's saw a sharp drop in foreign interest as only a
few relatively small discoveries were made. The foreign oil companies were
further discouraged by the Government fixing the wellhead price in March 1974,
substantially below import parity at the December 31, 1973 level of $5.21 per
barrel plus verifiable production cost increases. However, recognizing the
need to attract foreign capital and technology to supplement its domestic
efforts, the Government modified its policy to make petroleum exploration and
production more attractive to foreign companies. Under this new policy,
announced as one of the measures accompanying the Government's far-reaching
January 1980 program of structural adjustments, new oil discoveries and
production from enhanced oil recovery projects will now receive a wellhead
price about equal to the CIF price of imported oil; in addition, the companies
can export up to 35 percent of their newly discovered oil to cover foreign
currency costs and repatriation of profits. The Government has further
announced the principle that if foreign exchange costs were above the 35
percent level, as they most probably would be for offshore proiects, it would
be prepared to negotiate higher repatriation allowances on a case by case
basis. These new initiatives have elicited a favorable response, and between
February and May 1980, eight foreign oil companies visited Turkey to reassess
the possibility of initiating exploration activities once again in that
country. Following discussions with the Bank, the Government has recently
taken a major initiative to establish a new Exploration Fund to mobilize
domestic resources needed for an expanded exploration program. This Fund will
be financed by a tax on the sale of petroleum products at the rate of one lira



- 14 -
per liter of gasoline and one half lira per liter of other petroleum
products. Since this is expected to generate about US$80 million equivalent
annually, the Exploration Fund is an important institutional development to
finance the expansion of Turkish oil exploration activities.
Organization of the Petroleum Sub-Sector
43.      The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was established in 1964
to coordinate all energy-related agencies; the most important of these for the
petroleum sector, are TPAO (para. 44), the General Directorate of Petroleum
Affairs (GDPA) and Petrol Offisi. The main responsibilities of the GDPA are
to approve and register petroleum concessions, to collect information on
concessions that are returned to the State, to ensure that operating companies
conform to good petroleum industry practices, to set crude oil prices, help
set refinery margins and ex-refinery prices, and in general, to implement the
articles of the Petroleum Law. Petrol Offisi is the SEE that distributes and
retails most of the products refined and imported by TPAO. The Petroleum Law
of 1954, modelled closely after the then prevailing United States petroleum
legislation, provides the basic legal framework for all petroleum-related
activities. Under this law, the wellhead price of domestically produced crude
and the price of refined products were regulated on the basis of import parity.
TPAO - The Beneficiary
44.      Established in 1954 by the Government under the Commercial Law, TPAO
is involved in all aspects of the oil business; exploration, production,
refining and, through its ten subsidiaries, refining, transportation, distri-
bution and marketing of liquid petroleum products, petrochemicals, and ferti-
lizers. However, the financial accounts of TPAO's subsidiaries are never con-
solidated with TPAO's. Even TPAO's wholly-owned subsidiaries manage their
affairs almost entirely independently of TPAO's management. Structured as a
private joint stock company, TPAO is 93 percent owned by Government; its oper-
ations are subject to close regulation by the Government under the Petroleum
Law. The Council of Ministers controls the majority of appointments to its
Board. Although its investment program has to be approved by the State
Planning Organization, TPAO has autonomy in its day-to-day operations.
45.      TPAO directly employs approximately 7,000 people, almost 60 percent
of whom are located in the Batman district, the principal oil producing area
in Turkey. In general, its professional staff is experienced and capable,
having extensive experience in all aspects of the oil industry. Though it can
set its own personnel regulations, and its salaries are higher than for the
SEEs, in recent years salary differentials have been eroded as a result of the
collective bargaining agreements reached with the Oil Workers' Union which
includes all but the top 190 managerial positions in TPAO. As a result, with
petroleum-related skills in large demand internationally, TPAO has also had
difficulty retaining its middle management personnel. While well-qualified
senior staff still remain, about half of the technical staff has less than
five years experience. TPAO's Board of Directors is currently reviewing
possible solutions to improve this situation. TPAO will furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1981 its recommendations to enable it to attract and retain
qualified technical personnel and to improve the operational efficiency of its



- 15 -
staff. After exchanging views with the Bank on such recommendations, it will
take steps within its power to implement these recommendations (Project
Agreement, Section 3.04 (a)). Meanwhile, adequate precautions are being built
in to ensure that project implementation will not suffer due to staffing
difficulties (para. 62).
46.      TziSO produced about 21,500 barrels per day of crude oil in 1979 (1.1
million tons) from its operations in the southeastern region of Turkey near
the Syrian border and processed it in the local refinery in Batman which was
designed to handle the heavy oil found in the region.  It is also directly
responsible for the operation of the Izmir refinery with a current capacity of
3.3 million tons and an expansion program for doubling that in the next few
years. This refinery processes imported crude. TPAO's other important
activities are a pipeline operation that transports crude produced in the
southeast to the coast for processing in other refineries. Its marketing
department is responsible for coordinating the purchase, import, and distri-
bution of all of Turkey's petroleum and petro-products imports. In 1978 it
imported 10 million tons of crude oil and 2.7 million tons of products.
47.      TPAO is currently responsible for arranging for the import of, and
the payment for, all of Turkey's petroleum products and crude oil require-
ments, for refining a third of the imported crude, and for implementing a
$1,300 million refinery expansion program to increase its annual refining
capacity from about 5 million tons to about 15 million tons by 1984. In
addition, it is responsible for a rapidly expanding exploration and domestic
oil production program, aimed at decreasing the country's dependence on
petroleum imports. The rapid growth of these two distinct activities within
the same management control system has tended to reduce the efficient utiliza-
tion of the management resources available to the company.
48.      Recognizing the advantages of separation of the domestic oil and
import-related activities, the Government plans to have TPAO transfer its
Izmir refinery and its mid-Anatolia refinery under construction to Istanbul
Petrol Refinerisi Anonim Sirketi (IPRAS). This is a wholly-owned subsidiary
of TPAO, that itself runs another refinery with a 5 million ton per annum
capacity. TPAO will also transfer its current responsibilities for importing
of crude and products to IPRAS, to be carried out on IPRAS's account. This
reorganization is an important step for increasing management efficiency and
rationalizing Government policy towards the sector. It will: (i) permit
greater clarity in the formulation of objectives for each activity; (ii)
facilitate the adoption of more rational financial and pricing policies for
each activity; (iii) focus more clearly on the separate results of each
activity; and (iv) help avoid cross-subsidization of one activity by the
other. When its marketing department and refinery operations based on
imported crude are transferred to IPRAS, TPAO would remain solely responsible
for exploration, exploitation and processing of domestic petroleum resources.
49.      Therefore, with a view to initiating the proposed reorganization,
TPAO has agreed to: (a) transfer all responsibility for importing and
marketing petroleum and imported petroleum products to IPRAS from January 1,
1981, (b) transfer its facilities for refining imported oil by July 1, 1981 to



- 16 -
IPRAS, and (c) take all necessary actions to completely separate its domestic
oil operations from its import-related operations by December 31, 1981
(Project Agreement, Section 3.03). The Government and TPAO have provided a
timetable for the actions necessary to fully implement the separation before
the end of 1981. The proposed timetable should allow adequate time to value
the assets to be transferred and to negotiate the necessary financial, legal
and personnel action that will be required. To facilitate the eventual separ-
ation, including the division of its assets and liabilities, TPAO will by
April 1, 1981, maintain separate accounts and financial statements as of
January 1, 1981 with respect to the importing of petroleum and petroleum
products and activities for refining and distributing imported oil on the one
hand, and exploring, producing, refining and distributing of domestic oil on
the other (Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
Beneficiary's Financial Performance and Prospects
50.      After several years of profitable operations, TPAO's earnings deteri-
orated in the mid-1970s. In 1976, profits disappeared. In the following two
years, increasingly large losses were incurred. The two principal reasons for
its deteriorated performance were: (i) lower refinery margins, and (ii) sub-
stantial foreign exchange losses from frequent devaluations on its short-term
and medium-term debts secured to finance crude imports. Despite heavy
exchange losses and higher interest charges, profitability returned in 1979,
partly due to the higher profits on the production and refining of domestic
oil as a result of the change in Government's pricing policy and partly due to
improved results from its imported oil refining activities. With a view to
relieving TPAO of the burden of exchange losses, the Government has agreed to
carry out a plan of action for offsetting, or eliminating foreign exchange
losses of TPAO incurred from January 1, 1981, due to its outstanding foreign
debts from its importing and petroleum products (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03). The Government plans to transfer to IPRAS the responsibility for
servicing of TPAO's outstanding foreign debts for importing petroleum and its
products. The Government plans to review IPRAS's financial situation and to
take measures to ensure that IPRAS remains a financially sound enterprise.
TPAO had a high debt equity ratio (70:30) at the end of 1979, partly because
its assets, valued at historical cost, understated the real value of the
equity component. To reflect its financial position on a realistic basis, and
as Turkish law does not provide a mechanism for revaluing its assets,
beginning with its fiscal year 1981, TPAO will revalue its assets annually for
a memorandum account in accordance with principles satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish pro-forma accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
on such a basis (Project Agreement, Section 4.11).
51.      The abovementioned restructuring of TPAO is expected to have a far-
reaching beneficial impact on TPAO's financial situation and performance. It
will eliminate the major source of TPAO's financial problems, particularly the
low refinery margins and the exchange losses that arose from its import
related activities. Second, by eliminating the effects of the changes in
profitability of imported oil refining activities from its financial decision
making, TPAO will be able to link the financial requirements for its explor-
ation and production program more closely to its profits from the development



- 17 -
of oil fields discovered during previous exploration activities. Therefore,
while it may be difficult to foresee the actual financial outcome of the
restructured TPAO pending the division of its assets and liabilities, the
financial conditions outlined below should allow the restructured TPAO to
start on a sound financial basis and ensure that it would be able to maintain
a reasonable balance between its high-risk exploration activities and its
low-risk production investment.
52.      To ensure that TPAO has a sound financial basis, particularly since
it would be primarily concerned with risky exploration activities, TPAO would
be required to have an initial debt equity ratio of one (Project Agreement,
Section 4.06 (a)). As TPAO had negative working capital in the recent past,
it would also be required to have a current ratio of one and adequate liquid
working capital equal to two months cash operating expenses (Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.06 (b) and (c)). Further, to ensure that TPAO does not
encounter new problems of excessive accounts receivables from other Govern-
ment-owned companies, if accounts receivable exceed its sales for the previous
two months, the Government will advance an amount equal to the receivables in
excess of two months sales at an interest rate not greater than the average
rate TPAO receives on its outstanding receivables (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02). To ensure its long-term financial viability, TPAO must maintain a
reasonable balance between its production and exploration investments. Given
the high degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of its exploration invest-
ments and the long gestation period even if its exploration is successful, it
is prudent for TPAO to limit its debt to a level it can service while allowing
it a reasonable latitude to continue its exploration activities with inter-
nally generated funds. To meet this objective, TPAO will not incur any
long-term debt unless its projected net revenues in each year during the terms
of the debt is at least two times the aggregate debt service on all long-term
debt (Project Agreement, Section 4.07). TPAO would also be required to use
its internally generated funds for its own requirements, and not for the
requirements of its subsidiaries and other companies in which it has an
interest, unless its own requirements have been met (Project Agreement,
Section 4.09). TPAO would furnish the Bank for its review annually in October
of each year its proposed investment program and related financing arrange-
ments for the coming year (Project Agreement, Section 4.10).
Bank Lending to the Energy Sector
53.      Bank Group lending in the energy sector had so far been concentrated
on the power sub-sector and related lignite mining development, except for the
engineering loan (No. S-13-TU, dated November 1978) provided to prepare the
proposed project. Since 1952 the Bank has made ten loans and a technical
assistance grant (total US$476.65 million) and IDA has extended three credits
(total US$55.7 million) for the development of the power sub-sector. The said
engineering loan of US$2.5 million, was to help TPAO evaluate alternative
enhanced recovery techniques applicable to the Bati Raman oil field, which
offered the best prospects for increasing Turkey's oil production in the
medium-term. In view of the heavy burden of oil imports on Turkey's balance
of payments, which is expected to continue despite Turkey maintaining the
volume of its imports at close to its present levels, the Bank's future



- 18 -
involvement in the oil and gas sub-sector is intended to help Turkey increase
its domestic oil production from proven fields and to support an exploration
program to find more oil.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History and Background
54.      In early 1978, TPAO requested Bank assistance in developing a program
to increase the ultimate recovery of the Bati Raman oil field through the use
of enhanced oil recovery (EOR) technology. This field is the largest oil
field in Turkey with proven reserves of 1.8 billion barrels (280 million
tons), of which only 1.5 percent is recoverable by primary means, due to the
highly viscous asphaltic character of the oil. Using financing provided by an
engineering loan (S-13-TU) for US$2.5 million, a group of consultants under-
took a comparative evaluation of alternative enhanced recovery technologies
applicable to heavy oil to determine the optimal enhanced recovery method.
55.      After examining in detail three prospective methods, namely in situ
combustion, steam flooding and carbon dioxide (C02) injection, the results
of the laboratory and computer simulation studies indicated that C02 injec-
tion in the oil reservoir is the recommended EOR method. This confirmed the
results of previous studies undertaken by TPAO. The consultants have pro-
jected the ultimate recovery factor from CO2 injection could range from 17
to 30 percent depending on the reservoir behavior. However, because the basic
data for a simulation model came from the limited production performance data
of the field, there is always a large uncertainty regarding recoveries pro-
jected by a model of this kind. Nevertheless, two independent consultants
reviewed the proposals and agreed with the recommendation of proceeding with
the C02 injection pilot project, although they considered the higher
recovery projections overly optimistic. Furthermore, unlike the other tech-
nologies evaluated, the C02 method has the advantage that even it if failed
to increase the oil recovery as expected, it would leave the reservoir
unaltered. Thus, the oil could still be recovered by another method at a
later date.
56.      During the final stage of the EOR study financed under the afore-
mentioned engineering Loan, the Government also requested Bank assistance in;
(a) the development of the newly discovered extension of the established Raman
oil field, and (b) the assessment of the production potential of the Hamitabat
gas field in Thrace in northwestern Turkey. The project was appraised in
February 1980, and the loan was negotiated in Washington in September 1980
with a delegation which was led by the Chief Economic Counselor of the Turkish
Embassy and included representatives of the Treasury and TPAO. A staff
appraisal report entitled "Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstra-
tion Project" (No. 3093-TU), dated October 17, 1980, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.



- 19 -
Objectives and Description
57.      The proposed project has two main objectives;  (i) to expand Turkey's
recoverable reserves through the introduction of enhanced oil recovery methods
and to enhance its medium-term petroleum production capacity; and (ii) to
increase Turkey's crude oil production in the short-term by developing newly
discovered oil reserves. It includes the following four components :
(a) The Bati Raman Field Test - Following completion of the comparative
evaluation study, which recommended the application of carbon dioxide
(CO2) technology, it is proposed that a demonstration test be
undertaken to determine whether the process will in fact produce the
expected results. Such an approach is standard practice in the
industry for EOR projects. If successful, the results of this
two-year demonstration test will provide TPAO with the basic oper-
ating data required for it to design an efficient full field develop-
ment project. The field demonstration test of the chosen carbon
dioxide EOR technology will be carried out on 10 percent of the
reservoir. It will require the drilling of wells at the Dodan Gas
field to produce carbon dioxide gas, the removal of sulphur from the
gas, the laying of a 75 km pipeline to transport 55 million cubic
feet per day of carbon dioxide gas from the Dodan gas field to the
Bati Raman oil field at a pressure of 2000 psi, the drilling of an
additional 5 wells in Bati Raman, the preparation of a total 30 wells
to handle CO2 injection and oil production, and the installation of
associated equipment in Dodan and Bati Raman. Workover rigs, a
cementing truck, specialized laboratory equipment, and equipment and
services comprising technical assistance for testing, monitoring and
evaluating the results, are also included.
(b) The Raman Field Development - This component will assist in the
expansion of production from the newly discovered northern extension
of the Raman oil field, through the drilling and completion of 18 new
production wells and the installation of associated surface and sub-
surface equipment. In addition, technical assistance for a reservoir
study is proposed in order to determine the optimum approach to a
secondary recovery program for the entire field.
(c) Thrace (Hamitabat) Gas Field - The production potential of the
Hamitabat gas field will be evaluated by fracturing and testing six
to ten wells to provide reliable estimates of gas reserves and field
productivity and to determine the optimum utilization of its gas.
Although seven wells have been drilled and three are currently pro-
ducing a total of five million cu.ft. per day of gas, neither the
reserve estimates nor the production forecasts give sufficient confi-
dence to permit the implementation of projects designed to consume
the gas over an extended period of time. Technical assistance for a
study of gas reserves and optimum utilization of the gas is also
included.



- 20 -
(d)  Technical Assistance - To strengthen TPAO's management and organiza-
tion, TPAO will be provided with specialized assistance for improving
its operational productivity and its management organization. At
present, TPAO is running a huge operation with little of the work
contracted out. The organizational structure, systems of internal
communication, control of operations, warehousing, accounting and
financial management, financial planning systems and management of
its subsidiaries would be carefully reviewed with a view to improving
TPAO's performance within set policy objectives.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
58.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$102.0
million equivalent, including US$62.0 million in foreign exchange. This
estimate includes physical and price contingencies, all based on 1980 prices;
physical contingencies are estimated at 20 percent and price contingencies
estimated in dollar terms at 10.5 percent for 1981, 9 percent for 1982 and 8
percent for 1983. Consultant services of 180 man-months included in the
project costs have been estimated at an average rate of $15,000 per man-month,
including local travel and subsistence. These rates are in line with current
rates prevailing in the industry and are reasonable. The project cost esti-
mates do not include taxes and duties on imported material, equipment and
services required for the Project, as they are exempt from taxes and duties.
59.      The proposed Bank loan of US$62 million will finance 100 percent of
the estimated foreign costs, or about 62 percent of the total project costs.
The US$40.0 million equivalent of local costs is expected to be met by TPAO
from internally generated resources. In the unlikely event TPAO's own cash
flow is inadequate, the Government would make good the shortfall in the form
of equity investment in TPAO (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)). It is pro-
posed that the Bank loan be made to Turkey at the prevailing interest rate for
17 years including 4 years grace, and relent to TPAO for seventeen years,
including 4 years grace, at 11.10 percent interest per annum. TPAO will bear
the foreign exchange risk. The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and TPAO is a condition of effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c) and 6.01).
Project Implementation
60.      The project will be implemented over a three-year period.  While TPAO
will have overall responsibility for the implementation, it will be assisted
by consultants, whose qualifications, experience and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the Bank, for the Project's various components.
61.      For the Bati Raman EOR Field Demonstration Project, TPAO has already
engaged consultants whose qualifications, experience and conditions of employ-
ment are satisfactory to the Bank for detailed engineering design, and is in
the process of choosing consultants for supervision and start-up of the
Project. It will also engage consultants for monitoring and evaluating the
results of the field tests. For the Raman field, where production potential
could be further increased by application of EOR methods, TPAO will engage



- 21 -
consultants to carry out a reservoir study to help determine the optimal EOR
program for this field. TPAO will engage specialized service companies for
fracturing and testing of the gas wells in the Thrace (Hamitabat) gas field to
help evaluate its production potential and to provide reliable estimates of
its gas reserves, and will engage consultants to undertake a study of the
technically and economically optimum utilization of the gas reserves, once the
gas field's production potential is established.
62.      TPAO will create, for each project component, special project imple-
mentation groups, with qualified and experienced staff (Project Agreement,
Section 3.02). Furthermore, an understanding was reached during negotiations
that if the capabilities of these project implementation units fall below
acceptable levels as a result of the loss of qualified technical personnel,
TPAO would secure adequate outside technical assistance, so that project
implementation is fully safeguarded.
63.      As the carbon dioxide injection enhanced recovery method is being
applied to heavy oil for the first time under the conditions obtaining at Bati
Raman, TPAO will implement the field demonstration project in phases. TPAO
will present a phased implementation program before October 1981 for the
Bank's approval, to ensure that each phase is satisfactorily implemented and
its progress reviewed before the initial testing phase is gradually extended
to the entire 30-well program of the field test (Project Agreement, Section
3.05 (a)). In addition, in order to ensure that its limited technical
resources are concentrated on the proposed field tests, TPAO has agreed not to
undertake field tests of the carbon dioxide injection in the central section
of the reservoir, as proposed by its consultants, until Bank and TPAO agree
that the results of the field test justify extending it to the central section
of the reservoir (Project Agreement, Section 3.05 (b)). Further, to benefit
from the experience of foreign companies and agencies, TPAO has agreed to
establish by October 1, 1981, an advisory panel (independent of its consul-
tants), comprising of at least three experts experienced in heavy oil recovery
or carbon dioxide injection, to review the progress of the tests and resolve
unforeseen problems (Project Agreement, Section 3.06). Several foreign
companies have offered to provide these experts on a voluntary basis. To
ensure that the 35 km power transmission lines, which are needed to connect
the Dodan gas facilities with Turkey's national power grid, but not part of
the proposed project, are completed prior to the commissioning of the Dodan
gas fields and the gas pipeline to Bati Raman, TPAO has concluded arrangements
with the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK), including a detailed implemen-
tation program, satisfactory to the Bank for securing a timely electricity
supply at Dodan (Project Agreement, Section 3.07).
64.      With a view to strengthening its management, TPAO will also initiate
by April 1, 1981 and complete by September 1, 1982, a management study, whose
terms of reference has been agreed with the Bank, by qualified management and
financial consultants well versed in petroleum industry, to suggest measures
to improve its technical and financial management. TPAO will then exchange
views with the Bank thereon no later than December 31, 1982 and thereafter
take steps to implement the study's recommendations (Project Agreement,
Section 3.04 (b)).



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
65.      The proposed Bank loan of US$62 million would be disbursed against;
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditure for the imported materials, equip-
ment, spares, logging services and stimulation work;
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign expenditure for the consultancy services
covering design, supervision of implementation, monitoring of oper-
ations, studies, technical assistance and training, and
(iii) 50 percent of the construction costs (representing estimated foreign
cost component) of the gas pipeline from Dodan to Bati Raman.
It would also refinance the $2.5 million engineering loan (Loan S-13-TU) for a
comparative evaluation of various EOR technologies (Loan Agreement, Section
2.02 (b)). To ensure that an appropriate environmental control system is
developed to deal with the increasing quantity of water produced along with
oil in the Raman field, and currently being discharged into ravines, and
through them into nearby rivers, the design of a water disposal system satis-
factory to the Bank is a condition of disbursement for the Raman field
development sub-project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 5).
66.      Goods and services financed under the proposed Bank loan would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines except that equipment, material or services estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 and not exceeding the aggregate of US$3.0 million, and specialized
services such as well-logging and stimulation available only from a limited
number of sources may be procured in accordance with limited international
tendering. In view of the long delivery time (estimated between 9-12 months)
of the carbon dioxide compressor, the workover rigs and certain drilling
materials and spares, TPAO has taken action to invite bids. Retroactive
financing of US$1.5 million for expenditures after October 1, 1980 has been
proposed to cover partial downpayment on the above equipment, and a part of
the cost of detailed engineering design of the Bati Raman Project.
Project Benefits and Risks
67.      The Bati Raman Field Demonstration Test will use a technology chosen
on the basis of an extensive study. Laboratory and computer simulation work
suggest recovery factors in excess of 17 percent for the field, which could
increase the additional reserves of the field by 270 million barrels (about 42
million tons), more than twice the presently recoverable reserves. Peak
production from this field could reach as high as 55,000 barrels per day (3
million tons p.a.) within four years after the start of the full field
development program, matching Turkey's current production. It should be
emphasized, however, that there is no field operational data to substantiate
these forecasts. The data available on reservoir characteristics is insuffi-
cient to eliminate the possibility that the carbon dioxide gas could bypass
most of the heavy oil through large fractures and exit from wells in other



- 23 -
sections of the field, thereby greatly reducing the efficiency of the
process. At the same time, the consultant's recommendations have been inde-
pendently reviewed by two other consulting firms experienced in enhanced
recovery of heavy oils, and all have concurred that carbon dioxide injection
is the appropriate EOR technology to apply to Bati Raman, and have recommended
procedures with a field demonstration test. Nevertheless this is an inher-
ently risky project, since to date there has been no application on a
commercial scale of carbon dioxide enhanced recovery methods to relatively
deep, heavy oil reservoirs. The important benefit of this field test will be
the technical information generated which will determine whether, and with
what modification, TPAO can proceed with the full-scale field development of
the carbon dioxide injection technology, or whether TPAO must abandon this
technology and consider other ways to fully exploit the Bati Raman field. If
the oil recovery reaches 17 percent of the oil in place as projected, the
internal rate of return for the full field application of this EOR technology,
with an estimated capital cost of $320 million, would be about 70 percent.
Moreover the process requires an incremental oil production of only three
percent of the oil in place to allow the full-scale project to earn a ten
percent real return, and the chances of recovering this much oil are regarded
as being high. However, should the field test results be so poor as to lead
to abandonment of the carbon dioxide EOR method, it would still be possible to
test the steam injection recovery method since the carbon dioxide injection
would not harm the oil reservoir.
68.      The Raman Oil Field Project will generate an immediate increase in
crude oil production from new areas of the field and will provide the informa-
tion necessary to maintain a high level of production from the older producing
areas of the field, which currently accounts for 40 percent of TPAO's total
output. The project will also provide a water disposal system which will
effectively eliminate the environmental pollution caused by the drainage of
oil-contaminated salt water into the Tigris river. Of these two benefits,
only the increase in production from the new wells is quantifiable in the
economic rate of return calculation. With the increased production valued at
the equivalent import price and with the conservative but reasonable assump-
tion of an average initial production of 100 barrels per day per new well and
a rate of decline of 15 percent per year, the incremental oil recovered in the
first year of operation will be about 490,000 barrels, and the total oil
recovered over the project's life of twenty years will be 3.9 million
barrels. As should be expected from an oil field development project which
does not include the exploration costs for discovering the field, the rate of
return is high, over 60 percent.
69.      The Thrace Gas Field Engineering Project will provide the technical
basis for developing this field and using the gas as a substitute for imported
oil. The output of the project will be the results of the tests to determine
the potential production rates for gas wells in the field, the delineation of
the field, a more accurate estimate of the field's recoverable reserves, and
an evaluation of the alternative uses for the gas. If the study confirms
TPAO's estimates of 400 billion cu.ft. of recoverable reserves, the present
value of the field's output (discounted at 15 percent) would be over US$400



- 24 -
million even if the gas was priced at about 65 percent of the energy equiva-
lent price of imported fuel oil. While the reserve estimates provided by TPAO
may prove to be on the high side, even the most conservative estimates of one
fourth the amount of recoverable reserves would be adequate to justify the
investment.
Environmental Considerations
70.      The Raman field is producing at present about 6,300 barrels of salt
water per day. This water, which is normally contaminated with oil, is dumped
into ravines and eventually flows into nearby rivers. Water production from
the Raman field will increase as the field ages. The project includes a water
treatment and disposal system in the Raman field, and the completion of a
design satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of disbursement of the loan for
the Raman field development sub-project. A similar but smaller system is also
provided for Bati Raman.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and TPAO and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4 (iii) of Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The special
features of the Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in paragraphs 45,
49-52, 59 and 62-65 and listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.      A special condition of loan effectiveness is the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and TPAO (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01). A special condition of disbursement for the Raman
field development sub-project is the provision by TPAO of design for the water
disposal system for the Raman oil field satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 5).
73.      I am satisifed that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
October 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV    ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATES
TOTAL            780.B                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     553.8              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b              EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAITA (US$)                  290.0       520.0    1200.0                 2381.1                    8104.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGEAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     245.0       479.0    798.0                  1641.4                   7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     27.5        35.3      43.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7        38.4      45.6                   53.9                      76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      65.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (OILLIONS)                       100.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       35.0        45.0      55.0                   77.2                    142.8
PER SQ. lNh. AGRICULTURAL LAND    51.0        64.0      78.0                  129.5                    523.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.3        41.7      39.1                   30.6                     23.5
15-64 YRS,                         55.2        54.0      56.4                   61.1                     65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         4.3       4.5                    8.2                     11.4
POPULATION GROQTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         2.5       2.5                    1.6                      0.7
URBAN                              5.1/c       5.1       4.8                    3.3                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.0        38.0      32.0                   22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     17.0        12.0      10.0                    8.9                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.6       2.1                    1.5                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)  5.3          8.2      38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0       100.0     110.0                  113.1                    110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                  110.0       110.0     115.0                  125.3                     131.6
PROTELIS (GRAMS PER DAY)          81.0        80.0      82.0                   91.0                     98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0        26.0      24.0                   39.6                     62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.0        16.0      10.0                    4.3                      0.8
HEALTH
LIFE LXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0        57.0      61.0                   67.8                      73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          187.Ojc     153.0k   118.0                    55.9                      13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        52.0      75.0
URBAN                                         51.0      70.0
RURAL                               ..        53.0      80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..      19.5.
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0/e    2250.0    1772.0                 1030.1                    624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      1880.0   1403.0                   929.4                    218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            590.0/e     490.0    506.0                   289.7                     121.2
URBAN                            190.0;Z    200.0
RURAL                               ..      5890.0.
ADhISSIONS PERi HOSPITAL BED          ..        20.0      20.0                   17.0                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.7         5.9
URBAN                               ..          ..
RUfAL                               ..          ..
AVLRAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOh
TOTAL                               ..         2.2
UR8AL                              2.0         1.9
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENI
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             29.0        40.0      57.0
SRBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                              2.0        18.0



ANNEX I
- 26-                                               Page 2 of 6
7.z      I*AL INDICATORs DATA Slt
TUuIUY                             urTuUcE cTOn (NIIZTD A= nLO38
- OSS IXzCD(T rssAErr
MOST U¢ZYSX            MDDLZ nIcalr             D3MUEJnL=rID
10  A       1970 a   ESTASTZ                  E UROPE                commus
ZDJuM MD ENOLLST LATIOS
iRIAVYt      TOTAL                 75.0        109.0      98.0                    105.9                     100.1
MALE                  90.0       124.0      106.0                   109.3                     102.2
FZHALE                58.0        94.0       90.0                   103.0                     102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 14.0         25.0      43.0                    64.0                       87.1
MALE                  20.0        39.0       59.0                    71.1                      84.4
rENALE                 B.0        16.0       27.0                    36.9                      84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECOaRY)  18.0            14.0       15.0                    25.8                      19.0
PUPIL-TZACM   RATIO
nlDMAY                             46.0         38.0      34.0                    29.4                       21.3
SECOMDUAY                          19.0         28.0      27.0                    26.1                       16.4
ADULT LITEACY  SATI (PERCENT)        38.0         55.5,a    60.0                       .                       98.9
?ASSENGR CARS  rl THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          4.0      11.3                    U4.6                     339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS Pn  THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.0         89.0     103.0                   192.2                     932.9
TV IEtCEVZES PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          1.8      43.0                   115.5                     354.8
NEWSPA     (DAILTt CZNZRAL
INTERSTS) CIRCSATION ru
THOUSAND POPULATION                  51.0           .         ..                    93.0                     327.4
CINMA ANNUAL ATTZDNCE PEA CAPITA  1.               6.7        ..                     5.7                        3.3
LABO FRQCE
TOTAL LABOL FO7C0   (TEOUSANDS)    13782.1     15329.6   18558.8
1546LE  (PERCENT)                  40.2         37.2      36.0                    30.4                      36.1
AGICULTMLZ (PzRCzNT)               78.5         67.7      60.0                    37.0                        7.6
INDUSTRT (PKRCERT)                 10.5         12.1      14.0                    29.3                      35.8
PAILTICIPATION LATE (PACXENT)
TOTAL                                 0.1         44.3      42.8                    40.9                       44.6
N;AL                                 58.7         54.9      53.2                     55.9                      55.1
IDiALI                               41.2         33.4      32.1                    26.2                      31.7
ZCOhIC DEPENENCY RATIO                   0.9         1.0        1.0                     1.0                       0.8
INCOHEVIT DIsnDUI NCOKE
RECEIVED SY
RIHZOST 5 PERCENT OF bOOSEUOLDS   33.0A         32.8s
EIIZEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSZEOLDS  61. Ol        60.6/h
LOWEST 20 PEZCNT o0 LOOSZOLDS    4. 2            2. *
LOWEST 40 PrCENT oF HOUSEOLDS   10.6kA           9.4h       ..
pOVl:IY TACGET GROUPS
ESTSAED A6SOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
U0BAN                                *-           .      342.0
RULAL                                ..           ..     270.0
ESTnSATED OELATIVE POVERTY INCOHZ
LEVEL (US$ PEI CAPITA)
UUSAN                                ..           ..        .                        ..
RULAL                                ..           ..     220.0                   35.85
ESTIrATED POPULATION SOLW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMa LEVEL (PERCENT)
URN.                                 ..           ..
RULAL                                ..           ..
..No; available
Not applicable.
1j   The group sverag.e for each indicator are population-weighted aritbatlec m"ns.  Covera4e of countriec
oOg t he indIcators depends an availability of data and itt tot uniform.
/b   Uleaes otherwise noted, dsta for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recot Estiate, between 1974 snd 197S.
Xc   1955-60; /d 1967; /o 1962; /f Six years and over; /  1963, /h 1968.
April, 198o



- 27-                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OT SOCIAL ItOICATORS
(ions'; Alnhougr the dtac are drier from. .oor.. general.ly judged the mast authortstive end relleble, it should also bs noted that the, may not be inter-
aitonally comparable betauce of the hack of ecandardixec deflctiot.eand concpts used by different counItries in colsecming tha data. Tie data .. are nat-
thaIses, useful no desoibe orders of maso.lcuda, Indicate trends, and charocterica certeun aefor differeccas betc...ooooun.trls..
Th,, rferenc   gropsar  Cl) tie  aces country group of tch  aubpact cauntrv  and (2) a country group with enabnhge  aeaeccn   han nho country grop
ofthe sbject country (macept for "Capital Surplus Oil Eoparters' group where "Middle In.came North Atr-t  and  iddle Lat"  is ob..st because.of stronger
einulua affinutume,~ 1.ft .  ....afaeno  grouP data the avrgs .r  populetia  smightad arithmetic mans..  for each indicator and a0nd- only obao at
least hul of ohsonuntots  In a grup has dta for  hutunica.t-t  Since ohs covrag  of counrie  among  the   diao e dpenda cv the  -vihahihtcv  of
d daaacis not u               -fta   ation muacbe  -ericd in relativg ssae  of c.e indicator. tn aother.  Tir.e  -oerges cc orty usful  ir cep-rIoc  the value
of ova indicator  n   thee amon  the --ury and nfter..r. gr...ps.
LAND1 AREA (toowso  cqbm(                                                                         'uleoct P.,'ta:ancouuta   ccvaoec by .-O.nar                            ... pracacc   pry-
Total - Ttlsufaearacmrising land  rca cand Inland woteos.                                         -l:corun:u r aedicl   ,ch..  so uiaetyIul
Acooc1-1ur1 -   tisnane of agricultural I.r.a us.d temporarily orpreety                        Pmltor           buosloc Parsa   - PopulatIon divugaf by number of pec
far ... c.. Pa.curse, earist cad Aitchem  gardans or to lie falloc; 1977 dana.                  eIa sand femula groduate  urs,preotial  -ur.ma  an d .ealectct nrs.
CNP PEt CAPITh  uf         M   e   epostmce at current macba   pris, cl-                         Po'lbco   ca......e  -ccl  uhn                         rrl-Pouain  fcl
19)0, ad  i;y ast.                                                                               avri   t.7  b,I)1:lailsble In poblic ad private   esa.a  apardiclndhsi I P ando
,o~~~. ..   I978 d.t..                                                   he~~~~~~~~~ibilitetiac cantat.  Hf-pitlo  ars e setabljiahemats   aeucen staffed
ttctuv  uotoeoln 00 GAlic- Anualuotuapcon   f ucnsoialenery  (oal          by at least oma pbyeician.  isnabl.fatmetc  proidig P pin'oipsllpyunde
codl ligNit,ptoe,            nAtua  ga  sod           In w-,fulo    n  geoheral slt-               uIn arc cat included.  Rural haaPitals, howeve, imolo.de health  afd -adicaI
add ..711021':111.1~.tur.   as:X    hydr.",...1.. ad g.tha~ I..          ramogat    mar per-etly staffsd byia physician (but by a eeduccl assistant.
tnioicy) In  iclogruma of coal oquivolen  per c-pit.; 1960, 197 0, ood 1978                      norm. eluifa, etc.) which offer tmpatienit ot.ccoosodien, ad prvIid
d.t..  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oIItad r.aga If madical fucilitisa  For -ntiatioul purmess u-ba- bpi-
PSPULTtSP  iD VIAl, MATOMTCM                                              Ot Jalolude   ti  prncpa  gem ralatscata   haspitals, ad rura
POPLILATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                           Z~~~~hapituls local or.rorl hospital  codmesdical and ee4erittonora
Totl  ouloln  Mi-Tar(illiona) - is at July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                             Admuiatacs cer Mactota  Ded - Total  oaber of ioelsians cc or diacharges
Occa.                                                                                          tram  hoaPita1a divided bv the number of bada.
Urbac  poolmouc (ar..vntc af tonal) -             Iut   f urba  to total populcton;
dIfernt  efncoc    f urban aReasma  effect compurabilityor a .t.fansN
amngontriee; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dana.                                                  dra-ce Mice o;fH ...ahod  poroc ar          houser.hold   - ntel .. uVboo. and rural-
Porulanior Pronec..olooc                t.b p.J,t ..  ..             d       180          A houseol  caeit  ofaroup ainriduala oho sharelngqacr
Poulotc  n  sa  21f-  uran  rpuaoocprjenicaar  bse  a  lgD             ed ahetr main mol.-  A ho-dur no lvdgerto   ormynnh                      ld ad ir
toctal pcpulutcon by age and sac end their mortalIty and fertility ranese.                   tie haceebold for ecatietical purPase...
Proeo Io  promaer  fr  tortiycos cnPolaco   baclvl   es                                    vrasmme ofLhseo ta  ro..                natal, urban, and rural  - Avargs  un
ovb1 ecs ny a   it   nroIo otiourv'patpIcires                                      brapaoapnrotA.  lua, an   rora  occu Pied tmmcaa
laral. so  female lfe anpettnoy snabloics at77.0 Yer.    mcpra                  wllns  rsotiv-ly.  Dwellings earclud    a-a na  ernt ...r. and
rocea   o  iartlcty Vata  also have three ls-ela  assuming decline in                    umccpid ats.
tarilioy ac-rdiog  cc u-ogo level end past faily plaoing pertara"acs.                     Abtsu    o  lcciivfr mC*  af dw-ltna) - . tuc . urban. amd rural1
Lac  contr u s ohan.. aiaund ace of tosee Iur  combinations of mrtality                      Cnmoou    wlig   iheetiiyt   iigqecr   sPretg
ad  fertility  cenda for projetim   pupfa at ncal. urban, cod rural dwelling   .srepecoively.
Staionry  uolatan     Ina tatunar  yapI.ulatlac  therm  is no growth cinoe
ohsbltsroe  s  qul  o  he deaath rate, and als  the uga structure  re-            EDUCATION
macto,.. cntant.  Thie us ochueed only otter fertility  -ransda Melom  to                   duttiral           tPtn
tn   eposso    eelo   nit oat rapooduatuon rota, obey each gereroiar                         Pri-ar arhol - total,male- at -feal  - Gros   octal, mols and feml
of oons replaces itaeIf exactly.  Tie statianary papuLotta   mica eec                          sarallmt of an1 ease at thc primary leve  as pero..ntage of reepsaiv
aeimuth do  oebeu        fo   h   pja duaetntueoohppltir                                       priecry ahal epaPu1etIamamrma11Y includes childa age  6 11
inci  year 2000, and tha vata of -dclio  of fertility race  to nspl....cebn  dute    o  diifro   sgb   tpi yeuain    o
YX    sti ..     Mullit. i    -che   - Th   y",   .. abci .. ry ppul.tcoun tries otnh oni-varl edouton... nrllamno map eacead Ill Parcant
isor sttioner oOOultin  usrahd-Th   eroa  aain                       oplta                  it  aem  pupile ore below  or abov  the oftlis.  school age.
ales hoe bean raechat                                                                        S... icocr  achool -  totl, male ad female - Coaputad as shove; secondary
Ponulatio D.. lcit I                                                                                mduaotioovqic  anlatfu                oer    f opprved primry  Wotructuan;
Pmrs. An  -  t-tu    oplnimpr square kiloaca   (100 bectores) of                                  poovidasgarl  voctlasto f  an  seh:r Orainlog inatro-tiona  fr Pupils
totr    ure.                                                                                    usua-C  ..lly of 11 or 17 years of age; narapod       .c courses .cc.g.....ll
Per so. it. actuculounal land  ~~~~-Cmputad as  bhov  for ariou1torol land              sauluda.
Povulation uga itrocUre1 (nacoon) - Childrat (A-luvsa    ob4-aa(t                                   cocludsI,: tcnal,%bindustrial, or cobar prgrona  tich  pmrtit todpa-
hI Years). andoeid(A    os antocr  a  Peruatoas o  mif-ps-  ou-                                   dontly or es dopa-meno   ofacsour  ictuPo_
ai.cJ..; 1q960, 1971. and 1978 dan.tPnlnairrti       rnr.adeadr       oa   tuet   noldi
fryloio  Iroc  Pceoaron(    ttal-  xoolgrothraesof_onl   id                               primary andasoar  leel  divied i,                   V 1t o...r of hmobra In tha
pear populuntona for 19th-il, l9hi-71, act ~~~~~1970-8                               torneaPondioglnaa
FPonultlot rowob hate Ic....enot - unbar- eaclgr h ratsa of urban poyc-                           AdultVltfco  ae(osoeo   - Lfocr-t  adults  (able t. rmad and units)
ictuoafr..        -A,.A-1  at17'f                                                                 as. a V perce tag    ofnao  adult pouatoaged 15 years ondOvr
Cruda hirty' hats (Per thi..ec.t) -Anual lice hlrthe par thoesant of mId-veer
popula:tion; 1960. 1971. and 1978 ooc.                                                     ctopyo
.,ouda Decoy icot 0 oar thnumaod) -Annual' dascht per oho...ard of mud-yea            Poa.n...C..      (crchauad.         nltc)-Poana aacnos    oo
pouaIo; 196G. 1970, acd 1978  .tun.-dpp.ir-Pasne     V     -ri                                                                                                          tr
Troo. Racducto  Roet -ivrcee  ounb   of daughterua. ona .              o  ill ba  it             tueaaiiha  ta   ih    eaes   cldsablecc   ers    o
ea._.P.    fmIitayitbicea
her ..r-u  rproduoti-a period if she  apanisnca present  Rs-fei  tfr                          adio Raeuer. fma thoucead onaulaitor  - All "yPa. of rec.atoar  for radh
tiliny ostsa; cusully five-yea   .rrseadi.& Jn 1960. 1970, en   97                             bodao   m   eea  Public per thanesad of population; atudma ughi-
family Plennccs-costcore, ucua   .o.a.eadds) - Annual neber of o..tteron               o_cdemveat snries and fe years whet r-giscrutto   of radio  a
huroc-uotrol  evlcsunderaupie   of nanic...  fomily planno0  Prorac                   a   oafc;dccc far rococ years ma  not he co_purable eL..atemot
Pertly Phoocina-Imart (rerconot of marrird comae.) -i .e.c.otag  of marrued              coorimfblcidt            ieai
owee o.fchild-.cesruo   ace (15-u, yeare)  -c  use   Vhrc-coonrul gvi..tee on                -Iccvrda.  botr houad  onui tlvl- t..cuer   rr  rudnsot
al  mrrcd  -0me  ivne    8  grout.                                                           550am..   publI per thb..uAad populocion;-T    ~..  - afluouuicre Tb      rcvr
too: wit ot':yo:ooo.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~in couhtori.asnd in peso  when. registration of I'S sacs noes in effect,
Mi_kv   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTTRITILIecone   irultoc(orthousand vcouloclon   - ihoog the aveag   ni-cula
lodt o  Pod  roduw...uoc per Gootto f19h-1 -l0:111   - todec cf per cap itc 00c-u            cun o   doily' genra  iotaree   oceep             defined as atperiodicalpuh-
oroduocton c  oh: foot ooond ituat,   rod ucocoexcl ute at sod end feed and       licetioc devoted proxurily no recordincgoru  Iena-             tois   oidand
c   lo caledar yor hamno   CoIe-moticiuaocovo  prImry anode (0... sug ...crbOictpo..atlsrs.Vti.L.
untadn  agr(al    r  edbl  cod. coo`iconutri.tIne(09  cfo an                               cch dil"fInparatletfurteeSo k.
to   er  unoed.    g~est  podonoco  mchcontyisicsdcvCoso nna Anoodaa nar .ait ..                                              er Tear .-V    cdo  the acabe  of
cooocl  ucas  podce  o ir   micta  10161  170  ad  97  dcc              otkaa  ol  drtg  hopon.inludngadisios  c  rie-n tkne
P..artcoolca ueupoly of oclrffe (rurcaco-uf oyviremeinclu-diomputed  ron                       and mobile unin-
erg eqvaaoof cc  totcpplica avaIlable  In country p00 capita                  fLABP FOOTE
pry day.  Aalluiha aPpuc     nrodneuc racio..1    inotels                           Total Labr Porra (thousandst)- icnnialoctove parmoo,   nld
aeoc,act changem  In snook.  hoc euppllo ..oo.hude anmlta,eea                            rndfrc   n   omloa    u   clto    oconvs   cdnt  son.di
.uantuluet west  -o (too  oru..a.siog, cod btn   it ditstrbutino.  toqouo                   deftoicca ancve tut col.        uctrs am   no     prbt;16,17  sod
oevct core aetaud by FA) b..sod on phyoinhogiosl ...ads for nomlso-                            INT  dara.in.                                 .bp..b.;16,97ad
vuYIavfboob   coldoitAgsvirvaeoc                    -tanoaura, hod'  oi ght I, Oft       PaI. (roo; -               1Pach   lhor force en paroe-oge of total laborfoce
cn   o   ic tbut    of  pphco,end all-ong  0proOfo   ao   0                       urolor(run;-lhofnnc   emn.fosr,houo   n
unmeol  lon; 1'981-61, 1970, cod 1977 datu.                                            fLhn    n  en a edo tta f ah- in              t;18,170cd17   eo
Oertacou suolo corocih (crone. nov day) - Pr-tin conet-  of par capita                 lndoenro  (P .r.. I) - Labor torco in -iic        dcOoytict, mcou -curio
co,It    l~o '   cP dPeryd.   Ite  ..pplIficdi             ontaaa s    ho-R-                 and electricity, u-co  oct gas 00 percectoas of total labor forte; 1960
allocsvoaOf Al creo  oftci-    proteor.h. po   ;Apco2grnof .eto    0                    1970 and 1978 data..atc               k         adI..L,o
-olo    oni, of thick  10 crm   -toud heentu  prtei.              hasud                 atootc   at)anotcnl ue,n   aaaoruiauto
aTm  I- oe  char rhoac of 1o  -nm   of ctoa  protein act :5 80000 of                    ecii.ratsarnco-Potd ec tonal  mlt  artfaou  habur to rce 
counal pontic V0   ..r.. avcaefor to  cori, pr-Pod h.    y FAbiIn the Third             psnnc eofttl,al  aTh. feale pcplcio   ofnl  gs  opecva
lurI   Ocd hove, 161-65, 1970 cd170tdn.16.17,sd17   cc                                                                   hc   r   10spruItacorrn IsIIoIng
her ceolco pro  e suvrlv from annu anB...-P..i upl   ffodt-                           g-a  atnotur oV:fhthe populanio., and long nina trend.  A too m.nO-
oriocda d  deie   rclf   aio   91   90uu197765lP7 daco.                                   15000  -TftTh:TUr..,
OEAITPPerceocon o  Privae Incoe (boh-1-Poah co    -id)r -5 caned   by rathoat
ult icecooryct  ton  (vers -              nmhr  07yaIaPn                                 IS peroan, ruoh atol R-t   Peret,prac2preu, dprmoApret
anh tch  1990, 19701cod                      19709anuor9g7d i0  reminng                    OfE DISTRIBUTaO
Inoo NrclioPae oa oocud)-  nco  dort  f   nrt  ude  aepor           OPRT  aM T ltfP'i                                    P        d-     i.   bVcht
Llfoa Epctc  . lai  lae  (Beot n  ci5 nouAroot). =-V tonal uY      , end rural -J.r                   .   .t             0rat    .    .r.    Dpr-
atu1hertnO people 1 (oandl, rbn  ad.V  rua)ocorfca                   cca   csf                  Ah....c poldo   ooo  ro    stotunn   rvlh                         cic      iic
lI;f!I, 4.-   ity pet. (p.V Vh.u..rd) - Arr-triciodaatpadequacofdiet  luuneareneialocr-food rTqurowenRc  is ro
percacccer  of  heir rapaooovepopulauono.  I  mc urbn area    puhld            Aura.l.tiacv p__      o   imooled i  oetur   fanr    perb   capita-
dowotaft no sourd0st looctad ont moe n;,ao 200rmacar  hromahousI may h
occdroooigviyo   aeniaaoaco   ncbue    v  ua   oa               asna   oeeo   htnrnc                  rc   ra   sdaie    rooeuo
N-bll    p;.,,  It;                                                                             .;~~~~~~~~lsclitejwoancfr  igo . oe  oflii    i   rbn   rta
rsooablosossecolcImpy  hoct)o  oosclo o  aohra  f  he  ouehld        comacd oolale Bd          ln  bslue ovrt tietolme Iavf cl (rrosoVxat) -urhor
docc  ae    d,epn  adurooruccrprto          rteda:t    acyn   taan ool-Paocoo  pptai,    ubn  n  rrl)oo  r  "bolt  po"
iorost yooo  yroV o 0t b o'e   r-voIul Irta Davd                                                                        Id.          .7 ri,                               U.
rua c tme  ohf             Idcl   ool   Sra.  t  r-)PsOc  oatr
of human1 onrn   anc   astelocater o        ..ta  20..  .f. y' cater-bopre  n.moeIo cc tic  uto cC                                           Ip..        1980l
t.Vin dr tyo  odcl                                                                   I                                                            Iuvc



- 28 -
TUR8EY - ECONOMIC Df6VELOPdENT DATA SUiET-
Page 4 of 6
1970     1973       1975       1977       197u       1979       1980      1982       1983       1985       1990       70-78      79         85-90      1976
A. NA810NAL ACCOUNTS (T1 Eillion.  1978 Price-)
1.  Gross doeettl product                          720.3    876.1    1034.2    1234.5    1272.7   1269.2    1288.2    1386.6    1449.0    1582.3    1971.9                 7.4        3.8        4.5      100.0
2.  CoIn from  terms  f trade                       -6.0       3.8      _0.2       -10.1       3.0    _20.0       -13.9     -20.3      -21.7      -24.0      .41.7          -          -          -         8.0
3.  Aroas o-est.- incofe                           714.3    879.9    £34.0          1224.4    1272.7   1249.2    1272,3    1366.3    1427.3    1558.3    1930.1            7.5        3.8        4.4      100
4.  Exporos 0(G   N }S)                             42.7     66.3       50.8       62.0       74.0      71.2       77.0      92.1       100.4     119.2      183.5         71        8.9        8.9        3.8
5.  Imoort1- S (G   NFS)                            60.0     93.9      140.4      167.4      113.8    112.0       117.3     127.6      132.2      141.2      172.3         8.9        3.9        4.1        9.2
6.  loornmeot                                      130.0    158.1      245.0      273.2      245.4    263.7      263.7      280.2      294.8      326.2      420.3         8.4        3.5        5.2      19.5
7. Consumption                                    590.4    723.7       846.5    1036.8    1075,9   1053.5    1064.9    1142.0    1186.1    1278.1    1540.4                7.8        3.3        3.8      84.5
S.  Sosticsaolnts                                 129.9    152.4       187.7      197.7      196.8    212.8      207.5      224.4      241.2      280.2      389.8         5.3       4.7        6.8       15.5
9.  Ntional sacings                               143.3    191.3       214.2      213.0     212.7    236.0       216.2      237.5      260.8      304.0     423.6          5.1       4.3        6.9       16.7
S. SECTOR OUTPUT                                                                              Share of Total Gutput (P r.ent)
1.  Agrirulture                                    29.4      27.9       29.5       28.1       27.0       23.4      26.7       26.2       25.9       29.0       24.2
2.  Industry                                       27.2      26.5       26.1       26.1       27.7       30.0      27.4       27.8       28.2       25.4       3120
3.  "tier                                          43.2      45.6       44.4       45.8       45.4      46.6       45.9       46.0       45.9       45.6       44.8
C. P1lCES (1976 = 100)
I.  ECport price-                                  43.7      63.8       84.0       95.6      100.0     105.6      119.8      144.0      156.6      185.5     254.7
2.  Import prices                                  47.7      61.8       84.2       96.0      10D.0     125.6      151.1      184.8      200.0     232.4      329.8
3.  .erra of trade                                 91.6    103.2        99.7       99.6      10W.5      84.1       59.3       77.9       78.4       79.8       77.2
4.  Uh deflator 2/                                  20.2     33.7       50.2       73.4      10D.0      160.0     320.0      922.0    1198.0    2023.0    5039.0
5.  A-erage rotOango rate (Si.0 = TL)               11.0     14.2       14.4       18.5       24.3       36.4
U. PUBLIC: INANCE                                                    Parcest of GDP
1.  Crn-ral gooarsoe- t revenue                    22.6      20.9       23.1       24.2      24.2       22.8
2.  Contra I orermmteou..t    lnrit-               24.9      22.0       23.7       27.9       28.5       25.9
3.  Public tecor deficit 3/                           -       2.1        6.1        9.0        3.7        6.2
1970-78                                                                                1970      1975      1977     1978
E- oELECTED INDICATORS                                                                E.  4600R FORCE
1000                                                3.0                                Iltilias labor Fore   ilIn                        13.6      15.8     16.0      16.4
m,pprt rIastcliy                                    2.4 4/                             U'-ployt tateotdf unIdetetspioylyent 805          11.0      12.3     13.1      13.3
:oeragc domestic saotog rate                        16.9                               Ci lIan eployment (nilion7)                      13.1      14.7     14.7      14.8
tlarglcol doras.lc San In  rota                     13.6                                 of ohinh (i)
Inteat_ entNbf                                     20.2
Isporta/GbP                                        11.4                                ugrlturo                                         67.1      64.5      61.9      61.3
Induaney                                         13.3      14.9      16 3      16.6
Other                                            19.6      20.6      21.8     22.2
/  Tsolaasp oAr addd op be-ease oi rtuDdiDg error-.
2/  Prejeeced races rf isflotien are highly epe-ujatlme and stb3trt tN elaNge.
3/  Nerroeino reqotreoanr of csosral gavsettAsas.t asn  koooaedc £assrprlsss  sod athrc p.6llc sutLoatels..
4/ For 5970-77 period.
Otnobar 1980
E88200



- 29 -
TUSEY - BALA5CE OF PAYMENTS                                                                      ANNEX 5
iNilIlixe ES Dollar)                                                                        Page 3 of 6
1970       1973       19751978                           1979        1980       1981        1992       193d       1984        1985       1990
A.  ttMJY xi J.LANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports oi goods axd I1                               753       1799       2152        2556       3128        3257       3800        45D0       3462       6473        7680       9114       19254
2.  IspOrts of goods axd N8S                            -1096      -2391      -5219       -6436      -5059       -5699      -7300       -8608      -9714    _10877    -12162    -13524    -23405
3.  Reouror balance                                    - 342       - 592      -3067      -3880       -1953       -2442      -3500       -3900      -4252    - 4404    - 4482    - 4410    - 4151
4.  Interest (ret) 11 -I  47                                       - 9        - 124       - 570      - 680         -938     -1350       -1670      -1588     - 1619    -  749         19240       2309
5.  Prft                                                    3      -  3       -  36       - 116      -  60          -50       -    -               - 103    -1088           114     -  120    -  13
6.  Workers ' r.....ros                                   273       1183       1312         982        983         1694      1800        2000       2408        3000       3400       3800       5800
7.  Net fotoor .esxi-e ieeo                               193       1089       1152         366        243          714       450         330        797       1273        1537       1756       3341
9.  Tra.f.ere                                              91         18          23         13                           -           -          -                           -         -            -
9.  C-reret artoxt bala-nc                              -  58        515      -1992       -3572      -1710       -1728      -3050      -3570       -3475     - 3131    - 2945    - 2653    -  810
10.  Prmnote f-reig  rapitU1                                92         77        251         169        147          209       175         200        220         244        273        299         500
11.   -ublr sodia  & l-xg-x ero (1hL2)(gros. ) 2I          271        376        386         502        530         1434      2175        3540       3135       3540        3826       4233       4423
12.  AEr-ti-xti-x  of pblir 344LT 1/ 3/                  - 146      -  72      - 117       - 214      - 380         -365     -1240       1400       -1474     - 2176    - 2692    - 2897    - 3729
13.  PobliI MEIT (Net)                                     125        304        269         288        150         1069       935        2148       1661        1364       1134       1336         694
14.  Short-term  (net) 3/                                   66       -235       1159        1807       1097          582       859         220      - 1)2       _121         -94       958          -
15.  Capital 008 it-lded el-exirre 4/                    -  39         67      - 234         742        464        -286       1060        1010       2168       1827        1632      1286          -
16.  ChaeIn Lresr--e-  1- = Entrer 3                     - 186      - 728        417         566      - 148           7         30          -         402       -181        -200      -212       -384
B. i.4LT LOAN CuitITFENT6 5/                                  506        547         755       1205       1407         1896
.b811  S-oto-                                              487        491         649       1105       1307         1796
1   bark grop ..3                                                    135        158         144        358         306
2.  EoIo   oultil-Loal                                    122        100         40           6         54          123
3.   ornments   corket etomoxe                           1154        718        197         282        289         805
4.  Goneroextc   rentrally p.Ixtrd econnelos              114          3           3        150        204           35
5   3Epfllet5                                              47          4          75        260        123      N  527
6.  Plnoorlal institutloxn                                 -          32        172         263        281
7.  0440                                                   -          - 
Pei-ato se-t-o                                              19         56         106        100        105          10
C. AVEIEGE TERIMS O E 6Lt  LOAN 0 0TM110LENTS 5/
1.  Grant elect 1)                                      37.4        39.2       10.6        11.4       14.2         14 7
0. - xtorx           2.                                   .         4.: 7       7l.2       7.6        7.2          17.0
3     -N-tro        (years)                             19.0        25.7       13.5        11.6       10.9         11.9
4.  Orae            (yeror)                               4.6        7.1        3.8         4.2        3.1           5.0
1    .Ices set inrlad. 1980 debt relI8f vhich .rc Is-ledn  ceder "opitl cct el.etbhere iscleded".  Th,e figee.  -re    i -tere    re lief 1980 9329  IllIes, 1981 5259 1llic,
1982 9173 illies ssd 1983 5142  tillcs; and prlsirpsi relief 1980 5733 eilllte, 19819518  .4111cc  1983 5387 mIllies end 1983 5386 uilltee.
21  Up re -rAd islrdita  1978 thIxre fItres  Arr g eneenx  esst.et    eh1ce  are not cet. tese.   vItsh Bek DR1 d-sd.
j/  Mei.lyecne-rtible T-rkieh lies depeelt., acreptance credit.,  ceeerolal end oil arreers, bskere' credIt. bki _           ,      b        t    dt.         df., Dresdner Bk  chme depoIt   ad I
/  icledig error.   d eissstasi  ap tc 1979; fee pecicted yeses it Ise.de gepftll  pelnats  M,LT borsleg  on ss  ies   beet. end total debs relIef (31062 eiltex  Is 1980,  5277 rilltex
ic 1981, $560  tilli-e  i  1982, sed $528  illi-4 *I  1983).
P/ PeblIx sed pblilcly g&e-eteed estern-l debt osly.
OctOber 1988
t12L7A



- 30 -
TURKEY - EXTERNAL DlEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                            ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actua                                         roiioa
1970        1973         1975        1976        1977        1978              1979
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Tens (M and LT)(Disbursed)  1/               1854         2869        3176        3519         4326       6100             10452
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)  1/                                      42          115         160          253         479        557                650
3.   Short Tenm  2/                                                         ..         279        1398         3441        6600       7469              4823
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                    1896         3263        4734         7313       11405      14126             15925
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                      840         1101        1641         2393        2804       3500              3775
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                             -47          -59        -150        -300         -570       -710              -930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                       -146          -72        -117        -119         -214       -380              -365
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                         -193         -131        -267        -419         -784      -1090             -1295
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                              18.8          4.4         7.7         11.2        22.2       26.7              26.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                            15.0         15.7        13.1         17.9        23.9       28.3               26.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                      7.2          7.8         9.1          7.6         6.1        6.0               8.0
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                           3.2         14.9        12.2         10.8         8.3        7.7               8.8
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OLTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                                                              19796/
(Million US Dollars)                                                                               (Amount)  (As 7. of Total)
1.  Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                                                            2±209           69.7
a.      Public Medium and Long-Tenm                                                                                10452           65.6
(i)  Bank Group                                                                                             1080            6.8
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                                                                      639            4.0
(iii)  Governments                                                                                            4692           29.5
(iv)  Suppliers                                                                                               352            2.2
(v)  Financial Institutlions                                                                                3654           22.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                                                                    35            0.2
b.      Private Medium and Long-Tenm  (Total)                                                                         650           4.1
2.  Short Term                                                                                                           4823           30.3
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                                                                       642            4.0
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                                                          1516            9.5
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                                                      634            4.0
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts                                                       244            1.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                                                           344            2.2
(vi)  IMF                                                                                                     623            3.9
(vii)  Oil Credits                                                                                             408            2.6
(viii)  Other                                                                                                    412           2.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                                                                    15925         100.0
1/  Bank DRS data.
2/  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/ Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, escept for 1979.
4/ Total debt servics (line B3) divided by sxports of goads and moe-fecter services plus workers' remittances.
5/ At market prices.
B Bank DRS data, Turkish Central Bank and Treasury estimates.
Oetober 1980
EMENA CFIIA



ANNEX II
- 31 -                                 Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT
(As of September 30,1980)
Loan and
Credit                                                                     (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year   Borrower                  Purpose                         Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-two loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                      600.5   177.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Education                         13.5               2.6
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Water Supply            37.0               9.3
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Ceyhan Aslantas                  44.0              18.9
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Power Distribution    14.0                 0.1
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                     46.7               1.7
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry                  40.0               0.3
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                  Elbistan Power                   148.0              53.3
1024-TU   1974   DYB                      Industry                          40.0               0.7
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development                 75.0              44.5
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit               54.3               31.3
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                        70.0               11.2
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Livestock III                     21.5              12.0
1194-TU   1976   TEK                      Power Transmission II             56.0              12.8
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                           26.0              23.1
1379-TU   1977   DYB                      Industry                          70.0              35.8
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                     Industry                          74.0              15.7
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Northern Forestry                 86.0              67.7
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Livestock IV                      24.0              22.6
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0              89.8
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Ports Rehabilitation              75.0              75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Grain Storage                     85.0              85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                     Industry                          60.0              59.3
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                     Private Sector Textiles           65.0              64.9
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                     Private Sector Textiles           15.0              15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Ankara Air Pollution Control    6.0                  5.8
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Structural Adjustment            200.0              90.6
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Karakaya Hydropower              120.0             120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Sumerbank Cotton Textiles /a   83.0                 83.0
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Livestock V /a                    51.0              51.0
Total                                                  2395.5   177.8   1103.0
of which has been repaid                              206.0      6.3
Total now outstanding                                   2189.5   171.5
Amount sold                       3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                   - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                       2189.5   171.5
Total undisbursed                                       1103.0     0      1103.0
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor        Type of Business                   Loan   Equity   Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                    -    0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90   0.47       1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                    -    0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                   -    0.41       0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50   0.43       1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50   0.62       3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00   1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00   1.37       8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75      -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                         -    0.05       0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                            -    0.52       0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                   -    0.43       0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00      -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33   0.27       0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60   0.44       4.04
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00      -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30      -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00      -      15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60      -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50   1.37       8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00   1.22    26.22
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58      -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00   2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                           -    0.06       0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                 -    0.09       0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15      -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.62   0.78       9.40
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                  -    1.80       1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               31.51   4.00    35.51
1980     TSKB          DFC                                   -    1.09       1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories          -    0.50       0.50
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                  4.00      -      4.00
Total Gross Commitments                         190.84  20.96   211.80
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    113.88   3.49   117.37
Total Commitments now held by IFC               76.96  17.47    94.43
Total Undisbursed                                4.73   3.54       8.27



- 33 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project; US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes. However 90 percent are now
complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government is
also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management Train-
ing Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers for
technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system required, to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1979 was disappointing because of the difficulties that the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 34-                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
contractors encountered in obtaining sufficient fuel, construction steel and
cement; the supply situation has eased recently. The construction of the
irrigation system is progressing, with the system now ready to transport
irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the target. On-farm works
are progressing slowly, with about 40 percent of the land leveling, 25 percent
of the surface drainage, and 35 percent of the feeder roads completed. Tile
drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located. Staffing of the
extension service is satisfactory except as regards consultants; the Govern-
ment is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project; US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date; September 28, 1973. Closing Date;
October 31, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action and inefficient management; however, this is now almost
completed. Both local and foreign costs have increased substantially over
appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of
the proposed reorganization of the company's electricity, transport and gas
services have been completed. IETT's tariffs have been raised substantially
in the recent past, and additional increases as a result of the Government's
January 1980 economic package should help cover the increased project costs
and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date:  August 28, 1973.  Closing Date;  June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, an locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 90 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continue to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as appro-
priate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.



- 35 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project; US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date; May 26, 1976. Closing Date; June 30,
1982.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway with the
installation of equipment proceeding process satisfactorily, and the project
is expected to be completed by end-1981, two and a half years behind the
revised schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have
occurred, but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have
produced some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the
foreign exchange financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of
the project is well advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz
establishment are also now being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in
January 1980 should enable the company to meet part of the local currency
requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project; US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date; June 1, 1976. Closing Date; July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan Counterpart Funds is
likely to help resume momentum in future. The colenders and the Government
met in October 1980 to discuss a detailed program of action to overcome
remaining implementation problems; this program is expected to be finalized
and implemented before the next construction season.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date; September 30, 1974. Closing Date;
December 31, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.



- 36-                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date; January 22, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready. Diversion tunnels for Alaca and
Guldercek dams are more than 90 percent completed. Designs for the irrigation
systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been completed and bids have
been initiated. The project extension service and credit components are
operating successfully. The Government is taking steps to replace two of the
three extension consultants who resigned for personal reasons. Further con-
struction of village centers is being delayed until agreement is reached on
satisfactory plan for using and maintaining existing centers and plans for
additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project; US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976.  Effective Date;  April, 21, 1978.  Closing Date:  December 31,
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries; US$54.2 million loan of
May 5,1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date. September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly schedule service between ports in Turkey
and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries and sub-loans has been
delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB)
has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit
program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. After
considerable delay, consultants have begun the study of TCZB's structure and
procedures. At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the
Project, and US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million
allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided
for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on
December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



- 37 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project had faced delays in civil works and procurement caused by
insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of 130-34 ?ercent have
helped to correct this situation and the project is expected to start pro-
duction in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal schedule. Erection of
machinery and equipment begun in early 1979 is almost complete and trial runs
of the saw mill component have already begun.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III; US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government is reviewing possible measures to correct
the situation. A higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made
to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date; March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB still has severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional junior
staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more senior
positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 93 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and export-oriented



- 38 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
industries. It has so far been unable to raise resources in international
capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the
interest of several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit
renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry; US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date; October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery.. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date; October 31, 1978. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey and by resource
constraints adversely affecting field staff travel. Government is reviewing
measures to overcome them. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily
completed. International recruitment of technical specialists, considerably
delayed, is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date; July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Following technical
review by the company's consultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down
coiler have been deferred until a later date. Product selling prices have
been substantially increased in January 1980. Production from existing
facilities however, have been severely restricted because of the lack of raw
materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation; US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date; January 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications, tender documents and
procurement is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to
implement the project related training programs. The port sector planning
studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to
correct this.



39                           ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage; US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date;
January 21, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. A short list of prequalified
consultants have been invited to submit proposals by end October 1980 for
engineering design and supervision of continuation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey); US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date; October 25, 1979. Closing Date;
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 30
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date; February 29,
1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being
prepared. Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 15 percent of the
loan has been committed.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering; US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date; April 4, 1980. Closing Date;
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan; US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980.  Effective Date;  April 1, 1980.  Closing Date;  September 30, 1981.
The loan is fully committed and disbursements were $128 million as of
October 21, 1980. Progress has been satisfactory, and the second tranche was
released on July 30, 1980 and the final one on October 23, 1980.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower; US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date; August 15, 1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.



- 40 -                             ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization; US$83
million of May 28, 1980. Effective Date; January 1, 1981. Closing Date;
June 30, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective. Project implementation has begun.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V: US$51 million of June 6, 1980. Effective Date;
November 6, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 41 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY - BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Turkiye Petrolleri
Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO) to prepare
Project:                                    1 year and five months
(b)  Agency which prepared Project:              TPAO assisted by Godsey
Earlougher Consultants financed
by S-13-TU Loan.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:            January 1980
(d)  Departure of pre-appraisal mission:        November 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            February 1980
(f)  Negotiations completed:                     September 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             March 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III; Special Conditions
A. Special Condition of Effectiveness;
(i) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and TPAO (para. 59).
B. Special Condition of Disbursement;
(i) TPAO will provide the Bank a satisfactory design of the water
disposal system for the Raman field (para. 65).
C. Other Main Conditions:
(i) Government will carry out a plan of action acceptable to the Bank for
offsetting or eliminating foreign exchange losses of TPAO incurred
from January 1, 1981 due to its outstanding foreign debts from its
importing petroleum and petroleum products (para. 50);



- 42 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(ii)  Government would make available as equity contribution funds for the
local currency cost of the project in the event that sufficient
resources were not available from TPAO's own cash flow (para. 59);
(iii) By July 1, 1981 that TPAO would have a long-term debt equity ratio of
one and would thereafter maintain liquid resources equal to at least
two months cash operating expenses, and have a current ratio of one
(para 52);
(iv)  Government will provide or cause TPAO to be provided with an amount
equal to the accounts receivable in excess of TPAO's sales for the
previous two months at an interest rate no greater than the average
rate TPAO receives on its outstanding accounts receivables (para. 52);
(v) TPAO will by January 1, 1981, transfer all responsibility for
importing petroleum and petroleum products, and by July 1, 1981,
transfer all its facilities for refining imported oil, and make all
other arrangements by December 1981, to completely separate its
import-related activities from its domestic oil activities (para. 49);
(vi)  TPAO will establish by April 1, 1981, and thereafter maintain
separate accounts as of January 1, 1981 between its two divisions
(para. 49);
(vii) TPAO would furnish annually in October of each year for review by the
Bank its proposed investment program for the following fiscal year
and its related financing arrangements. TPAO shall maintain a
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 2.0 (para. 52);
(viii) Beginning January 1, 1981 TPAO would not use its internally generated
funds for its subsidiaries unless its own requirements have been met
(para. 52);
(ix)  Beginning with its fiscal year 1981, TPAO would revalue its assets
annually for a memorandum account in accordance with principles
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish the Bank pro-forma accounts on
such basis (para. 50);
(x) TPAO will, by October 1, 1981, present to the Bank, an acceptable
phased implementation program for the Bati Raman CO2 enhanced oil
recovery field test, and will begin each subsequent phase only after
the earlier phase has been satisfactorily completed the initial
testing phase to the full 30 well area. TPAO will not begin the
field test in the central section of Bati Raman until the Bank agrees
that the results of the tests in the western area justify beginning
such tests (para. 63);



-3 -ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(xi)  TPAO will, by April 1, 1981, with the assistance of consultants
initiate a management study on terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, complete the study by September 1, 1982 and, after exchanging
views with the Bank by December 31, 1982, take steps to implement the
-tudy's recommendations (para. 64);
(xii)  TPAO will furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1981 recommendations
designed to enable it to attract and retain qualified technical
personnel and to improve the operational efficiency of its staff,
exchange views with the Bank on the recommendations and thereafter
take steps within its power to implement them (para. 45); and
(xiii)  TPAO will, by October 1, 1981, establish a Project Advisory Panel of
experts in enhanced oil recovery, including at least three foreign
experts (para. 63).






25                                                              b                             30$                                                                                            4W                                                               45'
BULGARIA.-'-<-'                                                                   B  Z A  C  K                                        S  F  A
*~~~~~-~~~~~9GREECE  ~~~~~~~~~~  4  lstamb&~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   /  ~~~U.   S.   S.   R.
GREECE  9<~                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;,   ^
½ i-              J                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cz-,,  X.' '<t <,-  
/                                                          KKardeniz                   J
43<S/7'->                                                                                                                      I                      40 t_ P . < g-~ __-- t 64
Esklisel, /ririkkale                                                                                                                                                                              F.'., 
X  $ aW  @ M ;t  00  ; >                g         O~~Afyon                                                          oas3                                     C_                                                                                 RN
~~~  ANKARA                      0                                                                                                   )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  A
II<                    5                          Ayr Aycln  _ _                                                                                                              x                                                          \RAt
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ti
9  o  tv.        4 .                                        -                                  A  R<~~~~~~                                                                                       ~~~~~ -  ( - N-_  
bg ---If               '                oAspendos                                Mers         Y                                   -o .-                               -/ 1                                  R A Q
5,3  4<   9  X   r7Ng   iskenderun   C5'                          I XDETAIL OF S.E. TURKEY OIL FIELDS
SYRI~~~~~~~&5
TURKISH PETROLEUM SECTOR                                                                                                                                        U.i                                                                            -
354    '   rCiect areas                                                                                  R- .UNOAR                                        \                                                                      YorRu        p-      P
ExistiN;                                Plonned                                 ---                                                         RJdi
o      Refineries                        7      Refineries                             CY P R U                                                        A -R NA
Oil fields:                    ..i.ii......  Crude oil pipeline                                                                                                                             B stLAVIc  Boro D,esir,1
*   TPAO                                                                                                                                 SLA___ut. t--  nuc
*        E-RSANI\I                            Elevations, 000 meters ond above                                                                                                            ,
x        SHELL-                                                                                                                                i
A        MOB L                      .           Internationoi boundaries                                                                                            A /nk
Gas fields                                                                                                                                       -         eo~
Pipelines:                                       KiLOMETERS 0       ,     Io       ,       00                           LEBANON o  0                       TU RI    Y                                                                   ( _
TPAO
Iroq -Turkey, crudeoil                        fth.e -  s  th e  o-   t-5 Ww 5 &-Vr    nvrec -                               ... h.                                              IRAN
Tbtvndaissh.d eei--is--edrnihI                                                                                                                        Project oil fields _
b-ad-i,e  h.-a o- ti,/ ap do -u iply. -n Rim p.p of th. World 8ank am5 in '-                                              RQ l                              nCrr,                od
3SW     a-cpioo or -a  b-nda-e                                         35'                     _,',LiBYA  AI   R                                                                    - Ralroa
't""" _y                                                            _~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARB RE REE   i'S5i  ________________________________________________



