OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 1917 TU
. DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery
Field Demonstration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
Dated                            , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1917 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   \Lover4'-A-( "4a-          , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and TUrkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi
(hereinafter called TPAO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million
dollars ($62,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that TPAO agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TPAO, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to TPAO on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TPAO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TPAO shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and industrial practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist TPAO in carrying out the
Project, TPAO shall employ engineering and management consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) TPAO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by TPAO to replace or repair such goods; and
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, all goods,
works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to TPAO by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for the
Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) TPAO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b) TPAO: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds;
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-3-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TPAO and the
Bank, TPAO shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
TPAO and the Bank of *their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan; and
(d) TPAO shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property,
equipment, records and documents of TPAO relevant to the perfor-
mance of TPAO under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. TPAO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TPAO shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) TPAO shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b) TPAO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by TPAO of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TPAO
Section 3.01 TPAO shall: (a) at all times conduct its opera-
tions and maintain its financial position in accordance with sound
financial and industrial standards and practices, with qualified
management and assisted by qualified and competent staff in
adequate numbers;
(b) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practices;


﻿-4-
(c) operate and maintain all facilities, equipment and
properties included in the Project and from time to time make all
necessary renewal and replacements thereof in accordance with
sound industrial and financial practices; and
(d) operate and maintain the facilities included in the
Project in accordance with occupational health, environmental and
ecological standards acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. TPAO shall establish and maintain until comple-
tion of the Project a project implementation unit for each Part of
the Project with qualified and experienced staff in sufficient
numbers whose terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TPAO
shall: (i) by January 1, 1981, transfer all responsibility with
respect to importing and marketing imported petroleum and imported
petroleum products; and (ii) by July 1, 1981, transfer all of its
facilities for refining imported oil (including those relating to
the Mid-Anatolian Refinery) and related properties to IPRAS; and
(iii) by December 31, 1981, make all other necessary arrangements
to completely separate its activities with respect to exploring,
producing, refining and distributing of domestic oil and .products
derived therefrom from those with respect to the importing of
petroleum and petroleum products, and refining and distributing
such petroleum and petroleum products, all in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. TPAO shall, with the assistance of consultants
as necessary, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1981
recommendations designed to enable TPAO to attract and retain
qualified techUical personnel and to improve the operational
efficiency of its staff, exchange views on such recommendations
with the Bank, and thereafter take appropriate steps within its
power, to implement such recommendations; and
(b) initiate the management study referred to in Part D of
the Project by April 1, 1981 and complete and furnish such study
to the Bank by September 1, 1982, exchange views thereon with the
Bank by December 31, 1982, and promptly thereafter take steps to
implement such recommendations.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) not later than October 1, 1981, TPAO shall furnish
to the Bank a phased implementation program acceptable to the
Bank with respect to Part A of the Project and will begin each
subsequent phase only after the earlier phase has been satis-
factorily completed; and
(b) TPAO shall not begin tests for enhanced oil recovery in
the central section of the Bati Raman oil field, unless it has
carried out the field test under Part A of the Project and the
Bank agrees that the results thereof justify beginning such tests
in the central section.
Section 3.06. TPAO shall, by October 1, 1981, establish a
Project Advisory Panel of experts in enhanced oil recovery,
including at least three foreign experts, all with qualifications
and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 3.07. TPAO shall make arrangements acceptable to
the Bank to secure the supply of electricity for the Dodan Carbon
Dioxide gas field.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TPAO shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. With a view to achieving the purposes set forth
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, TPAO shall, by April 1, 1981,
establish as of January 1, 1981 and thereafter maintain separate
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) with respect to the
importing of petroleum and petroleum products and activities for
refining and distributing imported oil on the one hand, and
exploring, producing, refining and distributing of domestic
oil on the other hand.
Section 4.03. TPAO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance


﻿-6-
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of TPAO and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. As used in this Agreement with respect to
the financial obligations of TPAO:
(a) "Current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for
purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of
business within one year, and inventories valued at the lower of
cost or market;
(b) "Current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably
expected to require the use of existing resources classified
as current assets. Obligations shall include but not be limited to
customers' advances, accrued taxes on, or measured by income,
other accrued taxes and current maturities of long-term debt;
(c) "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes,
surcharges and other levies, if any, but before provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) "Debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking
fund payments) on long-term debt, interest and other charges on
other debt payable during the period concerned;
(e) "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
and
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan


﻿-7-
Agreement) on the date of such loan contract or
agreement; (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only, except in the case
of a guarantee of debt of a subsidiary, to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
by TPAO for the purpose of servicing such debt or
in the absence of such rate of exchange, another
rate acceptable to the Bank; and
(f) "Equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus if it is represented by a positive number and
free reserves of TPAO.
Section 4.05. TPAO represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any
debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or stated
in writing.
Section 4.06 TPAO shall conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to:
(a) by July 1, 1981, attain a ratio of its long-term debt to
its equity not greater than 1.0;
(b) by July 1, 1981, attain and thereafter maintain, at all
times, a ratio of its aggregate current assets to its aggregate
current liabilities not less than 1.0; and
(c) Qn the first day of each month after July 1, 1981, have
available for use in current operations cash, marketable securi-
ties (excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired
for purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage) and net lines of credit from commercial banks (guaran-
teed for at least one month) equal in the aggregate to not less
than the estimated operating expenses for the following two
months. For purposes of this paragraph "operating expenses" means


﻿-8-
all operating and administrative expenses, including provision for
taxes, if any, but before provisions for depreciation and interest
and other z-harges on debt.
Section 4.07. TPAO shall not incur any long-term debt in any
year unless a reasonable forecast of its revenue and expenditures
shows that its aggregate projected net revenues for each full
fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be incurred
or for the following ten years whichever is shorter shall be at
least 2 times the aggregate projected debt service requirement in
such year on all long-term debt of TPAO. For purposes of this
paragraph, "a reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by
TPAO in the .fical year in which the debt in question is proposed
to be incurred and reviewed by the Bank which both TPAO and the
Bank accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
TPAO of its acceptability, provided no event has occurred since
the Bank's acceptance of such forecast which would have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating
results of TPAO.
Section 4.08. TPAO shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt which would
materially and adversely affect their ability to meet its finan-
cial obligations.
Section 4.09. Beginning January 1, 1981, TPAO shall not use
its internally generated funds for its subsidiaries and other com-
panies in which it has an interest unless its own requirements
have been met.
Section 4.10. Until completion of the Project, TPAO shall
furnish annually by October 31 of each year for review by the Bank
its proposed investment program and its financing arrangements for
its following fiscal year.
Section 4.11. Beginning with its fiscal year 1981 TPAO shall
annually revalue its assets for a memorandum account, in accor-
dance with principles satisfactory to the Bank, and prepare and
furnish to the Bank pro forma accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year on such basis.
Section 4.12. All depreciable assets shall be fully deprecia-
ted in conformity with appropriate accounting practices applied
on a consistent basis.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of TPAO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify TPAO thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
.Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For TPAO:
TUrkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi
MUdafaa CAD. No. 22
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
PETROL                             42397-TPAO-TR
Ankara                             42426-TPAO-TR
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TPAO may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of TPAO or such other person or persons as the
General Manager of TPAO shall designate in writing, and TPAO shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
ByAutorze Rprsetaiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, works and
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods, works and services to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, TPAO shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods, works and
services in question. TPAO shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods, works or
services remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts shall be grouped into
single bids of not less than $100,000 equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Republic of Turkey if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of TPAO and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Republic of Turkey
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 13 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
The following may be procured through limited international
tendering:
1.   Contracts for goods, works and services estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent, provided, however, that
contracts so procured shall not in the aggregate exceed $3,000,000
equivalent; and
2.   Contracts for specialized services such as well logging
and stimulation available only from a limited number of sources.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. TPAO shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by TPAO to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of TPAO's decision, and TPAO
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods, works and services
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000.or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, TPAO shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in -the said


﻿- 14 -
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, TPAO
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform TPAO and state the reasons
for such determination;
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, TPAO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform TPAO and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, TPAO shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the


﻿- 15 -
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform TPAO and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4,4     day of AA1lA-, 198 D.
FOR SECRETARY


