Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9539
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2624-PNG)
APRIL 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of currency - Kina (K)
Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average (1985)          - $1.00 = K 0.94
Intervening Years Average (1986-88)  - $1.00 = K 0.91
Completion Year Average (1989)        - $1.00 = K 0.86
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Papua New Guinea and
Agricultural Bank of Papua New Guinea
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABPNG           - Agricultural Bank of Papua New Guinea
AGO             - Auditor General's Office
DAL            - Department of Agriculture and Livestock
DL             - Department of Lands
ERR            - Economic Rate of Return
FFB            - Fresh Fruit Bunch
FRR            - Financial Rate of Return
IASER          - Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research
OECF           - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
OFL            - Over Free Limit
PNG            - Papua New Guinea
PNGDB          - Papua New Guinea Development Bank



VOl OFFcIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OpstC oattew IVimIIIN
Opee d lO6moor 
April 30, 1991
HEMORtMIDUI0 TOE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MID THe PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt Project Completion Report - Papua New Guinea: Third
Aaricultural Credit Prolect (Loan 2624-PNG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Papua New Guinea: Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2624-PNG) prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2624-PNG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .                             i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .           11.
1. Project Review from Bank's Perspective
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background ....  .  .  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .            1
ProJect ObJectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Project Implementation . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
Project Sustainability ..                  .  .    .  .  . .       10
Bank Performance . rforzna....c...         ... .e.......           10
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           11
Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
Consulting Services  9*99.. .....            ... . . . . . . .     12
Project Documentation and data . . . . . . . . .  . .      .    .  12
II. Proiect Review from Borrower's Perspective
Bank's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           13
Borrower's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           14
Socioeconomic Impact of Rural Credit:  An IASER Report .           17
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . .           17
Status of the Studies  .... .    .                .. . ..  .. .  18
Impact of the Studies  .9..      9. 9. .......     .             18
III.  Statistical Information
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . .           19
Table 2:  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           19
Table 3s  Loan Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20
Table 4s  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .           20
As  Subloan Approvals and Disbursements  . . . . .          20
Bs  Subloan Disbursement . . .  .    . . ..         . ..    21
C:  Loan Size  . . .   . *.. .  * .   . . . . . . . . .     21
D:  Area Planted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          21
Es  Project Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . .          22
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . .           23
A:  Project Costs  ........            .. . . . . .  .  .   23
B:  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Table 6:   Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      25
A:   Direct Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    25
B:  Eco.aomic Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    26
C:  Financial Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      26
D:  Studies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     27
Table 7:   Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      27
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . .                       28
A:   Staff Inputs  ...            ....  .    .  .    . . . . .  .    .  28
B:  Missions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     28
C:  Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     28
Economic Costs and Benefits:
9A:   4 Ha. Oil Palm Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     29
9B:   6 Ha. Cocoa Model   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     30
9C:   20 Ha. Cocoa Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     31
9D:   100 Ha. Cocoa Model   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     32
IV.    Ma
IBRD No. 17314R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2624-PNG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Agricultural Credit in Papua New Guinea (PNG) for which Loan 2624-PNG in the
amount of $18.8 million was approved on September 19, 1985. The loan was
closed on January 16, 1990, six months behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was on January 16, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission which visited Papua New Guinea in May 1990. Its preparation was based
on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (5635-PNG) dated September 3, 1985,
the Loan Agreement dated May 23, 1986, the Project Agreement dated May 23,
1986 and a review of the Bank's supervision reports and project files; field
visits to selected project areas, discussions with the Borrower's project
staff and interviews with World Bank staff associated with the project.



iii
PROJECT COHrLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2624-PNG)
EYALUATION SIMIRY
Obiectives
1.        This project was the third Bank-supported agricultural credit
project in Papua New CLinea.  The objectives of the project were to increase
and broaden agricultural exports, reduce food imports, particularly of pigs
and poultry, provide improved living standards for some 3,400 rural families,
and strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Papua New Guinea (ABPNG) as a
development finance institution to enable it to perform its role effectively
as the main conduit for agricultural credit in the country. To attain these
objectives, the project included a lending program for development of tree
crops, mostly cocoa and oil palm, pig and poultry farming, and other
agricultural subprojects, as well as a component for strengthening ABPNG by
providing data processing facilities, vehicles, funds for staff training,
fellowships, studies and administrative expenses and technical assistance for
management and financial performance.
2.        Through the project, the Bank also expected to make a significant
contribution to interest rate policy reform by assuring a periodic review of
Government interest subsidies, with a view to reducing those subsidies over
the project period.
Implementation Experience
3.        The project was implemented between 1986 and 1989 and was extended
by six months to allow drawdown of loan proceeds fully by December 31, 1989.
At project completion, the final cost was $30.5 million, about 3 Z lower than
the appraised estimate due to savings from the institutional support
component. The total value of subloan approvals amounted to K 27.5 million,
about 14 Z higher than anticipated at appraisal. Actual subloan disbursements
were higher than appraisal estimates by 155 1 for cocoa (which absorbed the
highest share 51 Z of disbursements), 28 2 for oil palm, 7 Z for agricultural
equipment and transport, but lower for the other activities. Average subloan
size increased considerably for cocoa from an originally planned K 16,300 to
K 77,000, and oil palm from K 2,000 to K 3,000.  Other components--technical
assistance, staff training, vehicles and equipment, and studies--have
essentially been completed as intended with satisfactory results. Although
the training specialist was not recruited, the manager of ABPNG's Staff
Training Division has greatly improved training programs. Future attention
will need to be focused on the improvements of ABPNG's Electronic Data
Processing System through streamlining of the data base and intensive staff
training for the new software system. The main problems encountered during
implementation were the continuous decline in commodity prlces, resulting in
100 Z of large coffee loans (above 20 ha) and 75 X of large cocoa loans (above
20 ha) being charged to provision for loan losses in 1989, increased
dependence of ABPNG on Government subsidies during 1986-88 which amounted to



IV
K 20 million, exceeding the limit of K 12 million mandated under the Loan
Agreement (Section 4.02), and issues relating to land tenure and the variable
performance of management agencies (both of which had been experienced during
the course of the completed second project). Moreover, the operating losses
of ABPNG have sharply increased from K 2.5 million in 1985 to about K 44
million in 1989, mainly due to the high level of loan arrears, high
administrative expenses, poor portfolio mix and low interest rates.
Prolect Results
4.        The main objective of increasing agricultural output and
specifically increasing export crop production would be achieved by the
project. The physical planting targets of cocoa were exceeded while there was
a shortfall (19 Z) in oil palm targets. Because of the variability in the
quality of plantings, however, crop yields are somewhat lower than appraisal
estimates. Also, prices of the main project commodities cocoa and oil palm
decreased in the international markets since 1985-89. Consequently, economic
and financial rates of return (ERR and FRR respectively) are much lower than
expected. ERRs are still acceptable for all selected models (15 - 18 Z)
except for the 4 ha oil palm replanting model whose ERR is estimated at 8 2.
The financial rate of return for this model also dropped to 6 2 as the cost of
housing was too high to be offset by the use of family labor. Except for the
6 ha cocoa model which relied almost entirely on family labor, none of the
cocoa models are financially viable. Despite lower rates of return than those
anticipated at appraisal, the project has directly benefitted 2,995 rural
families, about 400 less than targeted at appraisal (para. 1.22).
5.        The institutional capability of ABPNG has been strengthened.
However, reform of ABPNG's lending rates has not taken place as envisaged, the
bank's financial position has weakened, and the objective of developing a
financially sound rural credit market in PNG is still far from being achieved.
The Government is still pursuing a policy which implicitly provides for cross-
subsidization among ABPNG's borrowers and explicitly provides a budget
allocation to the bank to offer low-cost loans.
Sustainability
6.        The prospects for sustainability of lending for similar projects by
ABPNG do not appear good because of shortage of loanable funds, lack of saving
mobilization by ABPNG, continuous fall in commodity prices and lack of
interest and participation of landowning farmers during project
implementation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.        The main lessons to be learned are:  (a) the need for freedom from
interference by the Government to determine interest rates and portfolio mix
of the bank; (b) the prime requirement of adequate financial managempnt for
all credit-related projects; (c) the need for carefully examining the tenurial
aspects of land to ensure equitable distribution of benefits and to devise
practical means of securing loans; and (d) the need for a better system for
selecting management agencies and for remunerating them on the basis of
performance standards.



I
PROCT£ 5OMPL=ION REPOU
PAPA N   GUINA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
-      ~~(LOAN 2§&4-PNG)
PART I.  PROJCT REVEW FROM4 BANK'S PERSPECIVE
P:oject Name         : Third Agricultural Credit Project
Credit No.           s 262A4PNIG
RVP Unit             : Asia Region
Country              : Papua New Guinea
Sector               : Agriculture
Subsector            : Agricultural Credit
B. Backaround
1.1       The Third Agricultural Credit Project was the continuation of a
lending program to smallholders initiated under the First Credlt Project
(Credit 348-PNG), mostly for cocoa, oil palm, livestock development and
related support activities, through loans to ABPNG which is a wholly
Government-owned development finance institution. Following its decision to
restructure the Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) ln 1985, the
Government renamed the institution, ABPNG, and directed it, over five years,
to orient its lending operations essentially -or agrlculture and imposed a
20 2 (later revised to 25 Z) ceiling of the proportion of the loan portfolio
to be devoted to commercial and industrial projects. Between 1981 and 1988,
the bank financed a sizeable portlon of long-term investments in agriculture
through its loans for coffee, cocoa, oil palm, rubber and livestock
development. The World Bank has provided funding in the form of loans for
three credit projects. Credit 348-PNG financed medium-to-long term farm
investments in conjunction with a national Government program to establish a
smallholder livestock industry. The Second Credit Project (Credit 1149-PNG),
which financed a share of ABPNG's lending for tree crop development and other
agricultural subirojects, mainly coffee and cocoa, was completed in December
1984. Two particular problems identlfied during implementation were:
(a) issues relating to land tenure: and (b) the uneven performance of
management agencies. Both of these problems have continued through the third
project. The main lessons learned were the need for expert technical and
financial management, improved budgeting and programing of loan operations,
and a systematic arrears management program for ABPNG. The third project has
sought to meet these requirements through techn4.cal assistance, staff



2
training, provision of vehicles and equipment, anst an Action Program and
Financial Strategy.
Proiect Obiectives and DescrigtSon
'.2       The principAl objectives of the project were tot  (a) increase and
broaden agricultural exports through investments in crops for which PNG has a
competitive advantage; (b) reduce food imports through modest investments in
piggery and poultry enterprises; (c) provide a better livelihood for some
3,400 rural families; and (d) strengthen ABPNO as a development financing
institution to enable it to perform its role effectively as the main conduit
for agricultural credit in the country. To achieve these objectives, th'c,
project included two main components: (i) provision of funds to ABPNG to on-
lend for tree crop development, poultry, piggery, new crops, and other
agricultural subprojects, agro-processing facilities, and agricultural
equipment and transport vehicles; and (ii) strengthening of ABPNG by providing
data processing facilities, vehicles, funds for staff ti.ifting, fellowships,
studies and administrative expenses, and technical assistance for the
engagement of consultants who would assist in improving its management nafd
financial performance. The project was also designed to help establish an
appropriate policy framework for development of a financially sound rural
credit market in the country. Through this project, the Bank expected to make
a significant contribution to the interest rate policy reform by assuring
periodic reviews of Government interest subsidies, with a view to reducing
those subsidies over the project period.
1.3       Total project costs, over a three-year period, were estimated at
$31.3 million and the Bank-approved loan for $18.8 million was to fund 60 2 of
the costs, while the Government, ABPNG and the subborrowers would contributed
18 Z, 13 2 and 9 2 respectively. The project was to be implemented by ABPNG.
1.4       Project funds were expected to be invested in:  270 subloans valued
at $4.9 million (21 Z) in developing or replanting cocoa areas totalling about
4,580 ha; 1,200 subloans valued at $2.6 million (11 Z) for developing oil palm
smallholdings totalling about 4,800 ha; 21 subloans valued at $2.7 million
(11Z) for poultry and piggery; 139 subloans for $3.3 million (14 2) for new
crops, other agricultural production activities; and agro-processing; while
about $4.4 million (19 2) was allocated for the purchase of agricultural
transport and $5.8 million (24 2) to agricultural equipment.
Proiect DesiRn and Organization
1.5       The basic project design and the implementation arrangements were
similar to those of the Second Agricultural Credit project. However, it took
into consideration lessons learned from the former project and incorporated
measures to address them.   The project was identified in May 1982 and
prepared by the Government with Bank assistance. It was appraised in May 1983
but processing was suspended following Governments' decision to restructure
the implementing agency and its interest rate policy. As a result of
intensive policy discussions betwp the Government and the Bank, and
significant improvement in ABPNG'5  orformance, the project was reappraised in
February/March 1985. At appraisal, the loan security issue relating to the



3
Clan Land Usage Agreements was recognized. Land tenure issues, however, were
considered outside the scope of the project and ABPNG's control, in the light
of steps being undertaken by the Government under a forthcoming Land
Mobilization Project assisted by the Bank to strengthen the capability of the
Department of Lands and Physical Planning to register land leases, promote
investment in land, optimize the stock of alienated land, and improve the
benefits to customary land owners. To improve the performance of management
agencies, the project finarced short-term consultancies in tree crop agronomy
to prepare and update technical guidelines and lending manuals on agricultural
projects, prepare farm models on new agricultural projects, and advise on
agronomic aspects of loan approval and supervision of the plantation
management agencies. The training of ABPNG staff enabled the staff to have
the technical knowledge to supervise the expatriate managers of the management
agencies.
Project Implementation
1.6       Loan Effectiveness.  A Bank loan of $18.8 million was approved in
September 1985, became effective in August 1986, and was closed fully
disbursed on January 16, 1990, six months later than the closing date agreed
originally.
1.7       Project Costs.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
$31.3 million. The final cost was $30.5 million as shown in Table SA (Part
III). The decrease in total cost of $0.8 million (3 2) is due to higher
savings ($4.0 million) from the institutional support component (mainly
savings in operating expenses) partially offset by an increase in the subloan
component ($3.2 million). The subloan component amounting to $26.9 million
was about 14 S higher than the appraisal estimate of $23.7 million for a
planted area actually realized at about ;2 less than originally planned.
1.8       Subloan Approvals and Disbursements.  By December 31, 1989, a total
of 2,326 subloans had been approved under the project for a total of K 27.5
million, compared to 1,630 subloans for K 24.0 iAillion anticipated at
appraisal. Subloan approvals under the project constituted about 43 2 of the
total agricultural loan approvals, and 25 2 of aggregate loan approvals for
all sectors by ABPNG from 1986-89. Subloan disbursements made up about 40 2
of agricultural loan disbursements and 27 2 of total loan disbursements of the
bank during the same period. Cocoa development absorbed the highest share of
disbursements (K 11.3 million) or 51 2 total subloan funds, followed by
agricultural transport (K 3.8 million) 20 2, oil palm (K 3.1 million) 14 2,
new crops and other agricultural production activities (K 2.0 million) 9 2,
poultry and piggery (K 0.8 million) 4 2 and agro-processing (K 0.4 million)
2 2. A small number of subloans (about 20) supported coffee rehabilitation
for a total of K 360,000.
1.9       Actual lending as a proportion of appraisal estimates was 255 2
(cocoa), 128 2 (oil palm), 30 2 (poultry and piggery), 107 2 (agricultural
transport), 81 2 (new crops and other agricultural production activities),
83 2 (agro-processing) and 13 2 (agricultural equipment), as presented in
Table 4B. A reduction in the number of loans, cocoa (147) and oil palm (956)
has led to the average subloan size increasing considerably in relation to



4
appraisal estimates with cocoa rising by 470 Z from K 16,400 to K 77,000 per
loan and oil palm by 165 2 from K 2,000 to K 3,300. Increase in development
costs, including house construction for smallholders, has also contributed to
the rise in loan size.
1.10      Subloan Recov3ry.  It is not possible to assess the loan recovery
performance because most of the project subloans are still in the grace
period. The whole portfolio however, shows that loan arrears (measured as a Z
of amounts due in a given year) rose significantly to around 31 2 in 1989 from
about 23 % in 1983, while the loan arrears (measured as a Z of outstanding
loans) fluctuated from 19 2 in 1985, down to 17 2 in 1986, 16 2 in 1987 and
1988, and then rose to 17 2 in 1989. The later measure, however, is not a
useful indicator of the massive default as the ratio can even decrease when
disbursements are growing, thereby masking the gravity of the collection
problem.
1.11      At the end of 1989, ABPNG arrears reached K 16.9 million on a
portfolio of K 99.5 million. By number of loan accounts, about 25 2 (3,700)
of the loan accounts are in arrears. By absolute amounts, the highest arrears
are in large agricultural loans (>K 10,000), which amounted to K 5 million or
30 2 of total arrears. The total arrears included doubtful debts of K 6.4
million but not bad debts written off. Even these high arrears figures seem
to be understated because of rescheduling, following a continuous fall in
commodity prices. Two major problems continue with the arrears data. First,
principal and interest still cannot be separated and ABPNG is still not
crediting repayments on arrears first to interest overdue and then principal.
The impact on the bank accounts cannot really be estimated but the indications
are that the arrears are understated as a result of this lack of separation.
Secondly, the ageing of arrears beyond 90 days (now simply estimated) is
impossible with the present system of software. The bank is aware of these
problems and steps are being taken under a loan (V 2,682 million) approved in
1988 by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) to devote some resources
to improving the management information system and address these problems.
1.12      While deteriorating arrears and collection performance can be
mainly attributed to the recent continuous decline in commodity prices,
particularly for cocoa, coffee and oil palm (export price indices were almost
halved for these three commodities between 1984 and 1989), other contributing
factors are the recent Bougainville crisis which has led to the abandonment of
cocoa plantations in New Ireland and the dependance of ABPNG on GOPNG funds
and subsidies which may lead borrowers to consider loan funds as grants.
Although ABPNG has a systematic arrears control program in place, the staff
has to redouble its loan collection efforts, closely monitor the doubtful
accounts, and formulate an action program for each loan account in arrears.
1.13      The "Bouganville crisis" has caused the bank to close its Arawa
branch and two representative offices, and fears are expressed that loans
including those disbursed under the project (about K 1.5 million covering some
760 ha of cocoa plantations) are not likely to be recovered. The provisional
accounts for 1989 show a provision for doubtful debts of K 41.9 million made
in the profit and loss account to cover 100 2 of the large coffee loans (about
20 ha) and 75 2 of the large cocoa loans (above 20 ha). Since no interest



5
would be earned on these loans, the bank is reported to have claimed about
K 4-5 million from the Government. The bank has now decided not to lend for
large cocoa or coffee plantations but to put emphasis on smallholders (less
than 20 ha).
1.14      Quality of Tree Crop Plantings.  Three types of cocoa development
and smallholder replanting of oil palm were planned under the project.
Project funds for cocoa development were to support subloans--to replant
1,600 ha in 100 ha blocks each belonging to clans or business groups (about 20
families in each group), to newly develop 2,080 ha in 20 ha blocks each
belonging to business groups (10-15 families in each group) and to replant
900 ha by about 150 settler families. Project funds for oil palm were to
support subloans to replant 4,800 ha by some 1,200 settler families. The bulk
of the cocoa subloans has gone to large cocoa blocks each exceeding 100 ha.
Although loans for oil palm were targeted at appraisal for replanting of about
4 ha each by a settler family, there are cases of ABPNG's loans being used for
some new planting and planting in excess of 4 ha (husband and wife being given
loans for 4 ha each).
1.15      Early establishment of smallholder oil palm and cocoa as well as
large cocoa blocks has been less than optimal with the first plantings under
the project coming into bearing. Though keen interest is evident among oil
palm smallholders, more technical guidance is required from the Extension
Staff of the Department of Agriculture and Livestock (DAL) to optimize
productivity through proper systems of harvests which would minimize the
present heavy loss of fruits. Even with irregular fertilizer use, the palms
do not yet exhibit nutrient stress perhaps due to the volcanic nature of soil.
The harvest is collected from the smallholdings on pre-notified dates by the
Nucleus Estate Company (Harrisons and Crossfields in Hoskins), which also
supplies the necessary inputs, based on an assessment of individual farmer
requirements by the DAL staff.
1.16      Efficiency and Effectiveness of Private Management Agencies.  The
performance of the private management agencies in running the cocoa
plantations is variable. On cocoa plantations managed by agencies, adequate
levels of agricultural practices appear to have been carried out in the past,
but present liquidity constraints resulting from depressed prices seem to
suppress optimal use of labor and inputs in areas such as weeding, pruning and
disease control. As a result, black pod inoculum appeared to be high, as
evidenced by the numerous infected pods on trees, and this could drastically
affect production during the ensuing high peak. However, most of them ensured.
that routine agricultural operations were carried out using hired labor
because mobilizing labor for subborrowers' equity remained a serious problem.
Very few maintained explicit records of crop production for the separate
blocks to enable evaluation of yield on blocks planted in different years.
Monitoring of worker-output and labor utilization for specific operations is
not undertaken as a result of which cost savings through maximized labor
productivity are not brought about. These agencies carry out a passive system
of plantation management as there is no motivation towards better performance
in the flat fee paid to them on a per ha rate regardless of the standard of
their management or profitability of the plantation.



6
1.17      As the ABPNG would automatically cease to have any involvement with
the project plantations with the repayment of the loan, it is feared that the
owners may dispense with the supervision of their plantations by the
management agencies. This may lead to a division of the plantation among the
owners, thus creating a downside in performance with a resultant decline in
production.
1.18      Progress of Other Subloan Components.  Given the flexible character
of the subloans, cocoa and oil palm including processing have absorbed almost
70 2 of the total project subloans.   Another 20 Z was disbursed in the form
of hire purchase loans for agricultural transport where lower loan defaults
are experienced because the vehicles are owned by the bank until full payment
of the loan. There is limited progrr s in stimulating demand for new crop
loans and the reduced lending to livestock is beset with loan recovery
problems. This is currently being reviewed by a bank consultant.
1.19      Institutional Support Component.  Technical assistance, staff
training, vehicle and equipment, and studies have essentially been completed
with satisfactory results. Short-term consultancies on both coffee and cocoa
have enabled ABPNG to produce new manuals for training of loan officers in
appraisal and supervision in both crops. Evaluation reports by the
consultants on these crops in ABPNG's portfolio have assisted with ongoing
project supervision of the subprojects and the management agencies. Although
the training specialist was not recruited, the manager of ABPNG's Staff
Training Division has greatly improved the training programs. Between
1986-88, a total of 587 staff have been trained in 156 separate in-house or
external training programs or study tours abroad. Future attention will,
however, need to be focused on the improvement of the bank's electronic data
processing system through streamlining of data base and intensive staff
training for the new software (Oracle) system. Altogether about 50 vehicles
and two boats have been procured, albeit with some delays. But still
appraisers experience difficulty in finding vehicles for subproject monitoring
and supervision. The Socioeconomic Impact Study of Rural Credit, a study
carried out by the Institute of Applied and Social Economic Research (IASER),
was completed in January 1989. The results of this study require a critical
review by ABPNG's Board and management. The significant findings of this
study are that: (a) there has been a unif"rm lack of socioeconomic impact on
subborrowers in group-owned projects of medium- and large-scale cocoa and
coffee blocks, primary beneficiaries being migrant workers and the management
agencies; (b) smallholders on an individual project basis appear to earn
greater benefits from rural credit than the group owners; (c) subsidizing
interest rates in rural lending does not help improve the financial viability
of the investments; and (d) subborrowers are generally insensitive to the
level of interest rates.
1.20      Institutional and Financial Performance of ABPNG.  To help improve
ABPNG's operational efficiency and services to farmers, the project provided
financing for about 50 vehicles which enhanced mobility and frequency of
contact with borrowers, and some office equipment, which improved loan
processing and supervision. Improvements in the management of Departments and
Divisions (particularly Operations Department, and Development and Appraisal
Division) have been noted throughout the bank over the course of the project.



7
The position of Chief Economist/Corporate Planner has facilitated planning and
improved management information as well. The long delay in the filling of the
post of Deputy Managing Director is hindering efficient operations and
coordination between Departments and Divisions, which, though improving, needs
to bt. refined. Total staff strength of ABPNG as at December 31, 1989 was 452
including 213 in the Head Office and 239 in the regional, branch and
representative offices. These include 21 expat-iate staff. While it is
necessary to recruit new staff for critical positions, the high personnel
costs demand that redundant and non-performing staff are retrenched. The
opening of more representative offices due to Government pressure has led to
scarce skilled staff being spread much thinner than can be justified by
increased lending.
1.21      ABPNG's financial performance has seriously deteriorated over the
past five years. Its comparative financial statements are typical of several
specialized state-owned agricultural development banks, characterized by
issuance mainly of term loans (and some equity investment), reliance mostly on
contributions from the Government and funds from external agencies under soft
terms, and poor loan recovery rates. ABPNG does not mobilize deposits either
savings or others.  As a result, it has limited capacity to act as a financial
intermediary with low earnings (lending rates 5 Z-ll Z per annum for
agricultural loans) restricting is rate of growth of loanable funds. Although
a significant proportion of the resources is allocated to a small number of
large loans, the bank still haw to administer a large number of small loans.
Its administrative costs are high because of expatriate staff, number of
branches (10) and representative offices (25) needed to serve a large number
of isolated communities. Its equity investment amounting to about K 2.0
million was able to generate a return of just 1.5 Z (only one investment
declared a dividend of K 30,000). The operating losses of the bank rose
sharply from about 5 2 (K 2.5 million) in 1985 to nearly 48 X (K 44 million)
of the average loan portfolio in 1989.
Project Results
1.22      Project Results.  The project was, by and large, successful in
achieving its major objectives: increase and broadening of agricultural
exports (cocoa and oil palm), inzreased production (though less than expected)
of poultry and piggery to substitute for imports, increased incomes for rural
families and institutional development of ABPNG. The physical plarting
targets of cocoa have been exceeded by 6 Z while there was some shortfall
(19 2) in oil palm targets. The quantitative targets of other components
(excepting coffee which achieved only 30 Z of the target) have all been
exceeded, measured in terms of number of loans. But in terms of
disbursements, shortfalls were experienced most in pig and poultry farming
(70 Z), followed by new crops (19 2) and agro-processing (17 2). Given that
only a small portion of the planted area has come into bearing, yields can
still only be estimated. Because of the variability in the quality of
plantings, yields are expected to be somewhat lower than appraisal estimates.
The estimated annual value of production of both cocoa and oil palm at
maturity is about $10.4 million (in 1990 constant prices) or 12 S of total
exports of cocoa and oil palm. The project has directly benefitted 2,995
rural families, about 400 less than targeted at appraisal, and has generated



8
about 3,200 new jobs on the smallholdings and plantations. The findings of
the socioeconomic study, however, revecl that the main beneficiaries of the
group-owned large cocoa blocks are migrant workers and management agencies and
not landowners as envisaged under the project, while the owners of smaller
individually-owned blocks (cocoa - 6 ha, oil. palm - 4 ha) have derived direct
project benefits as expected. This raises the often debated conflict of
objectives' of increased production with equity. The institutional capability
of ABPNG was strengthened, although the interest rate reform contributing to
reduction in subsidies has not been achieved and the objective of developing a
financially sound rural credit market is still far from being achieved. The
Government is still pursuing a policy which implicitly provides for cross-
subsidization among ABPNG's borrowers and explicitly provides a budget
allocation to the bank to offer concessional loans to residents of
disadvantaged districts, and small farmers. Interest subsidies for 1986-88
amounted to K 20 million, exceeding the limit of K 12 million mandated under
Loan Agreement 4.02.
1.23      Economic and financial returns (of the selected models) estimated
at project completion are lower than appraisal estimates. The reduction in
the rates of return is mainly due to higher development costs (including
housing for settlers), lower prices of cocoa and oil palm than anticipated,
and lower yield expectations. Although economic rates of return are lower
tt,  appraisal estimates, they are above the generally accepted cut-off rate
of 12 Z (except 8 2 for 4 ha oil palm) for Bank-assisted projects in the tree
crops subsector. If housing costs were excluded, the 4 ha oil palm model
would also become acceptable with an ERR of 13 Z. All cocoa models, excepting
6 ha cocoa, are not financially viable, indicating the need for incentive
payments out of the price stabilization fund to continue beyond the three-year
period presently decided by the Government and assumed in the analysis.
1.24      Environmental Effects.  The project had a positive impact on the
physical environment. As a result of project planting of oil palm and cocoa
(under shade), soil erosion has been greatly minimized with a dense tree cover
over the soil surface as well as a heavy build-up of surface mulch through
leaf fall and pruning. Land selection for cocoa plantings had ensured that
all selected land had slopes below 140 to minimize soil erosion during the
early phase even though cover crops were established. Adequate provision had
also been made for effluent treatment in oil palm processing.
1.25      Impact of Credit Subsidies on Subborrowers.  According to the
results of the socioeconomic study, subborrowers are more concerned about the
availability and timely delivery of credit than the level of interest charged
on their loans. Generally, subborrowers are found to be insensitive to the
level of interest rates. A DAL paper 11 on agricultural credit has
identified such factors as poor management capacity, inadequate extension
services, lack of technical skill and technology packages to support high
yielding varieties, lack of equity contributions and lack of security, which
1I   Department of Agriculture and Livestock - Facts and Consideration for
the Formulation of Agricultural Credit Policy, Konedobu, and undated
paper.



9
contribute to low return on agricultural development. Government policy and
funds should therefore be directed to tackling these problems instead of
subsidizing interest rates.
1.26      Effect of Subsidized Interest Rates on the Economy, ABPNG and the
Governnent. Although ABPNG's lending rates are positive given that the
average inflation rate in the country over 1985-89 period was 4-5 Z, and the
projected long-term inflation rate of about 6 2, interest rates do not cover
the lending costs of ABPNG. The resulting subsidies and the inefficiency
associated with this lending have imposed high costs on the economy, ABPNG and
the Government, including the following:
(a)  High loan arrears and eventually large bad debt losses.  If about
8 2 of agricultural loans over 1985-89 (K 94.3 million) are never
repaid (based on rough estimates of what might be reasonable
provisions for bad debts), K 7.5 million plus uncollected interest
would be lost, an amount that would not therefore be available for
recycling to support new credit for productive purposes in
agriculture or elsewhere. The associated losses for ABPNG will
eventually have negative implications for the Government budget and
its capacity to support future agricultural lending.
(b)  Delays in processing loan requests can significantly reduce
incremental production that the loans are meant to encourage.
Cc)  The socioeconomic study (para 2.21) has reported some diversion of
loan funds from the use for which it was intended by the bank.  If
diversion of only 5 X of agricultural disbursements between 1985-89
is assumed, it would have deprived the sector of K 2.7 million.
gd) The intermediation margin cannot even cover the operating costs for
all types of loans except those for hire purchase, large and small
equipment finance. If estimated bad debt costs are added, the
deficit would be higher. Available data suggest that ABPNG's
losses on lending could be substantial. The losses are partly the
result of administered interest rates that do not pass on the full
cost (inclusive of bad debt expenses) of providing loan funds.
This practice results in interest subsidies to subborrowers some of
whom, as the socioeconomic study reveals, are persons of high
socioeconomic standing such as national and provincial politicians,
high level civil servants, the managerial class, wealthy
businessmen and other *notables". De facto subsidies are enormous
for those borrowers who are allowed to default permanently on such
loans. The resulting losses will eventually, whether directly or
indirectly, become a claim on the Government's budget. An
important policy issue is the extent to which these losses should
be reduced by: (i) raising lending rates; (ii) improving portfolio
mix; (iii) tighter loan approval and collection procedures to
reduce losses from bad debts; and (iv) greater explicit subsidies.
A comprehensive program is needed to strengthen ABPNG, designed to
restore financial stability, enhance loan recovery and implement
priority programs at an acceptable cost.



10
1.27      Issues Relating to Land Tenure.  Subloans for large cocoa blocks
have been granted against lease-leaseback arrangements. This system provides
for the landowning farmers in clans to form a business group and register
their interest with the Registrar General's office, then contact the
Department of Land (DL) to survey the property. After the survey, DL prepares
the leasing documents for the business group, normally for 25-40 years.
Because of the backlog of surveys, the bank has still to obtain these
documents as collateral in many loan cases. When a business group defaults on
a loan, the bank can theoretically sell the lease to a non-clan party, but
because of practical and social problems, the bank has seldom done so. As in
other countries, the question of land is very complex and governments of PNG
in the past have not done raough to address it. The Land Mobilization project
(Loan 3051-PNG) funded by tue World Bank, is a good start in that it would
clear up a lot of the legislative and administrative procedures in dealing
with land but the ultimate aim is one of trying to mobilize the land so that
it can be put to the best productive use. Administrative and legislative
procedures are not enough. People have to see that they will obtain benefits
from projects, and with no prospects of dividends now, they will not see any
until the loan is repaid some 10-11 years later.
Proiect Sustainability
1.28      The question of the project's sustainability remains unanswered.
The prospects for lending to similar subprojects without further external
financing by ABPNG do not appear good because there is a shortage of loanable
funds. Lending activities will however, continue, albeit at a slower rate,
utilizing the recovery of past loans and other lines of credit financed by the
other external agencies. Although institUtional strengthening of ABPNG has
enabled it to upgrade its management standards to keep pace with credit
activities, the training objectives aimed at having qualified nationals to
replace expatriates, have not been fully achieved. Sustainability of the
productive component of the project--mainly cocoa and oil palm plantings--
appears to be at risk due to the continuous fall in commodity prices.   The
other factor which could hamper durability of benefits from large blocks is
the lack of interest and participation of landowning farmers during project
implementation. This raises the question of doubtful sustainability when
landowners take over their plantations froza the management agencies.
Bank Performance
1.29      The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was generally
satisfactory. However, while recognizing problems int he financial sector
that made progress in improving ABPNG necessarily slow, stipulation of an
Action Program and Financial Strategy did not initiate critical improvements
(reduction of staff and costs, and control of loan arrears) necessary for
long-term stability.
1.30      As mentioned above, problems of land tenure and the variable
performance of the management agencies, which were recognized as two
particular implementation problems under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, continued under this project. Land tenure is currently being
addressed under Loan 3051-PNG, which aims at demarcating alienated and



11
customary land, while improved ABPNG supervision of management agencies had
led to termination of a few poorly performing ones. The Bank maintained as
much staff continuity as possible during the four supervision missions which
took place between May 1987 and July 1989. They performed well, concentrating
on physical and institutional components. As in the second project, the Bank
was also flexible in agreeing to reallocating resources from all other
categories to finance more subloans and modify the vehicle procurement
procedures from international competitive bidding to local competitive
bidding.
1.31      The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)  The financial weaknesses of ABPNG were partly due to excessive
pressure put on the institution to open more representative
offices, the Government policy to limit portfolio mix and prescribe
below-cost interest rates, and poor loan collection. Moreover,
subsidized loans cannot compensate for low returns to agricultural
investments.
(b)  Administered interest rates do not reflect the cost of lending,
relative risks, inflation, market forces or the need for financial
incentives to encourage bank lending to priority sectors.
Moreover, the amount of credit disbursed to priority sectors is
determined without sufficient regard for effective market demand
and concern for the financial losses it is imposing on the lending
bank.
(c) Adequate financial management is a prime requirement for all
credit-related projects.
(d) As learnt in the Second Credit Project, the development approach in
which landowning farmers group their land into blocks of 20 ha and
above managed by private management agencies, is by and large
successful, although a better selection and remuneration system for
the agencies is desirable.
Borrower Performance
1.32      The project was identified and prepared adequately by ABPNG with
Bank assistance. However, during implementation, project performance
suffered. Relatively low disbursements by the Bank were made in the first two
years of the project due to lack of clarification of specific responsibility
by an ABPNG Department/Division. There were also delays extending to about
three months in the release of the Bank's disbursements to ABPNG after receipt
of Bank funds by the Government. Similarly, longer delays were experienced in
Government release of counterpart funds from its budget allocation. At field
level the performance of the extension services have deteriorated after the
functional responsibility of extension services was decentraliaed. The 20 ha
block model developed to overcome the weakness in extension had encountered
other problems. Although management of these blocks by management agencies
led to increased production, benefits did not accrue to the owners as
anticipated. Even the viability of these estates is under pressure with the



12
fall in commodity prices. As a result, ABPNG has now stopped all new loans to
large estates in excess of 20 ha, giving more emphasis to smallholder
production on individual plots of less than 20 ha.
Project Relationship
1.33      Through long association with ABPNG from two previous credit lines,
the Bank has developed a good relationship, allowing its supervision staff to
beco.ne familiar with the country, the implementing agency, its issues and
concerns. While most project-specific problems were eventually resolved, the
crucial issues such as the level of subsidies and interest rates, land tenure
problems and uneven performance of management agencies, were not resolved.
1.34      The Bank and borrower relationships with other relevant parties
including UNDP and consultants have been generally satisfactory.
Consulting Services
1.35      In general, satisfaction was expressed by ABPNG over the
performance of consultants. The "Practical Guide to Growing Cocoa" prepared
by the agronomist consultant has been completed and just been printed.
Another consultancy, partially financed under the project was the Hays
Management Consultancy to reevaluate most of ABPNG's staff positions. The
results of the evaluation are currently being translated into salary
adjustments, which would hopefully minimize the high turnover of skilled
officers which ABPNG has experienced in the past. The consultant Deputy
Managing Director recruited under the project for ABPNG for a three-year
period, completed his assignment in November 1988.
Project Documentation and Data
1.36      The Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement and Project
Agreement were detailed enough to provide a basic framework for the Bank,
ABPNG and the Government during project implementation. However, some of the
loan covenants were unrealistic. For example, the covenant limiting loans in
arrears to below 20 Z of the loans outstanding is a misleading indicator of
loan recovery performance because the ratio can be kept low by expanding loan
disbursements, particularly term loans even with ar. increase in the volume of
arrears. A more appropriate measure would have been to relate loans in
arrears to loans at repayment stage, or loan collection to total loans due for
payment including overdues.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2624-PNG)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1       The Bank's performance durinz the evolution and implementation of
the project was good. There were some delays with project implementation
resulting in a relatively low disbursements during the fivst two years of the
project. These delays resulted mainly from an erratic approach from ABPNG's
point of view with regard to which Department/Division had the responsibility
over the project. However, once this problem was sorted out, the World Bank
was very helpful in assisting with the resolution of any remaining
implementation difficulties.
2.2       Subloans.  Many of the early implementation delays were resolved as
a result of the Bank's Review Mission to PNG and the ABPNG in April-May, 1987.
Prior to that a review mission, there had been no Over Free Limit (OPL)
project loan applications approved by the Bank. Submissions had been prepared
and sent to the Bank, however questions remained unanswered. As a result,
disbursements against the loan at that time had reached only K 4,810,496. The
mission reviewed and approved 11 applications, in total a commitment greater
than K 4.2 million. A waiver of the 90 day restriction was also effected for
these 11 applications.
2.3       Other OFL project loan submissions were made to the Bank.  Many
were questioned and further detailed information supplied by the ABPNG,
usually by telex. In the end all 31 of the submissions (K 13 million worth)
were approved.
2.4       Vehicles.  The mission also reviewed ABPNG's 'Invitation to Bid'
for 25 vehicles to be purchased under category 2 of the loan. This bid
followed the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Creditsw and
applied the techniques of international competitive bidding to the process of
selection. Although approved, subsequently it became apparent that bids of
this size were not attractive to international suppliers of vehicles and the
paperwork involved in preparing and submitting a bid was enough, in some
cases, to even put off local suppliers.
2.5       As a result it seemed that the requirement of international
competitive bidding had just the opposite effect to that intended. It reduced
the number of potential suppliers, thereby resulting in less competition. As
a result of this experience, ABPkG requested the Bank and was consequently
allowed to acquire vehicles by international shopping procedure which entailed
the selection of a supplier following the review of a minimum of three quotes
from local and overseas suppliers.
2.6       Consultancies.  The consultancies financed under the project were
certainly worthwhile, however the full benefits of the consultancies fina?iced
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project are yet to be realized. The
'Practical Guide for Growing Coffee in Papua New Guinea' which was prepared by
a consultant financed under the second Bank loan has still not been printed
and is therefore still not available as a resource to the public. Given the
delays, it is possible that part of the information it contains when it is
printed and finally available will be obsolete. The 'Practical Guide to



14
Growing Cocoa*, prepared by another consultant financed under Loan 2624-PNG
has just been completed and hopefully the printing can be carried out in a
more efficient manner. Another consultancy which was partially financed under
Loan 2624-PNG was the Hays Management consultancy to re-evaluate most of the
ABPNG positions. The last job evaluation exercise took place in 1983 and its
results were only partially accepted by the Government body which oversees
public employee terms and conditions. In the meantime, terms and conditions
of Government employees attached to the Government departments have been re-
evaluated, twice leading to comparatively better benefits and wages for them.
As a result the terms and conditions offered by the ABPNG, especially to its
national officers, are no longer competitive in the employment market. Some
of the best employees are being attracted to the much higher packages being
offered by the private sector companies. Others are going to Government
departments for better terms as well as seemingly better opportunities
regarding training and duty travel. Hopefully the results of the Hays
Management consultancy can be put to good use in justifying long overdue
improvements in the terms and conditions of ABPNG officers thereby stemming
the very high attrition of skilled cfficers which it has experienced in the
past.
2.7       Training.  The funds available for training were applied mainly to
the provision of in-house courses organized by the Agriculture Bank Training
Division. all the costs for the training were claimed on the basis of
statements of expenditure, similar to those made for expenditure under the
subloan category. The World Bank's cooperation in accepting and reimbursing
these claims was very good.
2.8       Studies.  Here again the Bank's performance and cooperation on the
evolution and implementation of the studies was exemplary. Despite the change
in scope of the studies and changes to the terms of reference, the Bank's
cooperation was always evident. The only area where an improvement could have
been forthcoming was if the Bank could have used its influence with the
Management and Board of Directors of the ABPNG to seek release of consultant
reports so that their contents could have been more widely distributed and
lessons thereby taken into consideration in the preparation of similar
projects in the future.
2.9       The Borrower's performance during the evolution and implementation
of the project left much to be desired.
2.10      Audit Re2orts.  The Borrower in this case was the Government of
PNG. One shortcoming of the Borrower was its failure to complete and submit
to the Bank the Audit Report of ABPNG's finances and operations within the six
month period specified in the Project Agreement. Although ABPNG was not
blameless in these delays, most of the problem rested with the Auditor
General's Office (AGO). Much of the delay stems from the AGO's limited
capability and low priority with regard to the ABPNG accounts. Due to the
lack of skilled manpower to undertake the audits themselves, the AGO
commissioned private auditors to do the work on their behalf. They would then
review and either endorse or modify the final report. ABPNG would usually
have its statements prepared by the following March of each year for which the
audit was being conducted. The privately commissioned auditors usually



15
dispatched with their role in the process within a month leaving the AGO with
at least two full months to review, question and modify, the final report as
necessary. However, given their lack of resources and the relatively low
priority they gave to ABPNG's audit (it was admitted that the State-owned PNG
Banking Corporation and the Bank of PNO audits were higher priorities), it
always failed to complete the audit reports by the dates set in the agreement.
2.11      One lesson to be learned from this experience is that, given the
relative influence and responsibility for timely completion of the Audit
Report, the Agriculture Bank should not accept its inclusion in the Project
Agreement as a covenant for which it must comply. Rather, it should be a
covenant of the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower as the
Borrower has more influence over its own AGO to complete the report in the
time allowed.
2.12      SOE Audit.  An entirely different issue was the audit of the
ABPNG's Statement of Expenditure (SOE) claims. In this instance, the problems
associated could not be blamed on any institution other than ABPNG. The first
audit of SOE claims took place in 1988 and covered all the claims prepared
from the beginning of the project to the end of 1987. Responsibility for
preparation of claims initially rested with the Economics Division of the
ABPNG. This role was transferred to the Data and Analysis Division in early
1987. During the 1988 audit it became apparent that the claims prepared by
the Economics Division in 1986 could not be easily traced and a major exercise
was necessary to reconstruct the audits. The delay resulted in a suspension
of disbursements by the Bank which was ultimately lifted when the full list of
claims were finally reported upon by the AGO towards the end of 1988.
Subsequent audits of SOE claims experienced no similar difficulties.
2.13      Funding.  Another shortcoming of the Borrower was with regard to
the delays in release of the Bank's disbutsements to the ABPNG. The procedure
followed by the ABPNG was to fully prepare each claim for disbursement. This
claim would then be hand-delivered to the Department of Finance and Planning
for approval and signatures, after which ABPNG would pick up and courier the
claim to the Bank. Despite the relatively short period for the Bank to
process these claims (approximately three weeka), it often took the Finance
Department three months or more to release the disbursements it had received.
This played havoc with the ABPNG's liquidlty situation. Similarly, the
Government's budget allocation for counterpart funding which was requested
with each claim submitted to the Department of Finance took even longer to
receive.
2.14      Government Influence.  One very disturbing trend which came
increasingly into effect during the course of the project was the level of
Government influence on the operations of ABPNG, presumably for political
gain. One such area was with regard to the opening of Representative offices.
Although an attempt was made in 1986 to close 12 unprofitable Representative
offices, a change in the Government of the day was followed with a directive
to re-open these twelve. Although the Government provided funds in its budget
to subsidize the establishment and operation of these offices, the money was
not always forthcoming and did not cover all the costs of these offices. I.
has been estimated that a typical Representative office costs K 60,000 to



16
establish and K 25,000 per annum in operating costs. Many of these offices
make no more than 3-4 small loan approvals per year which is less than their
annual running costs. In these cases, their entire loan portfolio does not
even match the amount it costs to establish the office. The interest income
generated from such a small amount of lending comes nowhere near the cost of
providing this service. However, an even greater cost is the misallocation of
precious manpower resources. The Representatives placed in these offices must
be responsible officers of ABPNG. Besides looking after the bank-owned assets
of a vehicle, office equipment and, in some cases, a house and an office, they
must represent the interests of the ABPNG in these rural areas. Therefore the
officers placed in these positions are generally well trained and highly
competent officers. In the many cases where there is little business, these
officers are under-employed. Given the shortage of capable officers, the
ABPNG cannot afford to have any of them in such positions where their full
potential is not being realized.
2.15      Subsidies.  Another area where the Government has exerted
unsuitable influence on the activities of the ABPNG is in the area of
subsidized lending. ABPNG has been forced to participate in credit programs
vhich detract from the normal operations of a development finance irstitution
and in some cases have lowered its effectiveness.
2.16      Explicitly subsidized lending to borrowers in less developed areas
and for such things as rural housing leads to confusion of ABPNG's role when
it lends at low interest rates to marginal projects that may not even be able
to repay principal. In these cases its often not worth the effort to try to
collect repayments. At the same time, ABPNG lends to other borrowers at
commercial rates and is very serious about loan recovery to the extent where
its security is- realized through foreclosure. It is no wonder borrowers get
confused as to ABPNG's proper role. Even ABPNG officers are confused.
Projects which cannot survive or be implemented without Government subsidy
should not be handled by the same institution that is responsible for
development finance. Its association simply undermines the purpose of the
institution. There is a role with political and social returns for such
explicitly subsidized assistance. However, the institution that handles this
function should be clearly designated responsible for that purpose and it
should not be a financial institution.
2.17      Extension.  Another area in which the Govermnent has fallen short
in its role is with regard to the provision of agricultural extension
services. Since the functional responsibility for the provision of extension
services was decentralized, the value and effectiveness of these services has
deteriorated. The ABPNG, however cannot lend to projects without suitable
arrangements for management/extension. The 20 ha block developments were
instead reliant on professional management agents. The size of 20 ha was
determined to be the minimum size that could be afforded by an estate for the
high cost of professional management. However it has now been revealed in an
IASER report on the socioeconomic impact of subloans financed under the
Project that the targeted smallholder farmer groups receives few, if any,
tangible benefits. The landowners refuse, to a large extent, to work on the
land managed by an agency. Therefore they derive few wages from employment.



17
The required loan repayment of 80 Z of the project surplus after expenditure
leaves very little for retained earnings.
2.18      Finally, the length of time to complete loan repayments, (often 15
years) is too long a horizon for many to expect dividends which would not
usually be declared while the project has yet to repay its credltors.
Although this mode of development achieved part of its purpose, that of
ralsing the production of export comuodities, its role with regard to bringing
benefits to the smallholder farmers was not realized. To exacerbate the
problem, the viability of the mini-estates is also vnder pressure with the
fall in commodity prices.
2.19      Client Services.  Due to the unreliability of extension ser"ices,
ABPNG has had to improvise on its provision in other ways as well. It has
become necessary to recruit officers with technical training and background to
appraise and offer advisory services to its clients. This activlty was
originally confined mainly to the larger projects. However, more recently,
with the curtailment of lending to the estate sector, it has become necessary
to extend this activity to small borrowers as well by means of so-called
JClient Services.
2.20      The effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the
ABPNG was good. It is a relationship which has carried over from the two
previous lines of credit from the Bank, one which developed over the many
years with the Bank missions repeatedly staffed by resources who became very
familiu.  with PNG, the ABPNG, its issues and concerns.  It is a relationship
which tho ABPNG is sorry to lose, especially in view of the much greater
problems resulting from the failure to establish a similar relationship with
the alternative financiers. The Government's aid priority is to tap the
cheaper sources of aid. The interest rate on the Bank loan was high.
Assistance could have been obtained from other sources at a relatively lower
rate of interest. However, the assistance and cooperation evident in the
previous and recent experiences with this loan which led to full disbursement,
more than makes up for the higher interest expenses.
SOCIOECONOMIC IMPACT OF RURAL CREDITIAN IASER REPORT
Purpose as Defined at ApDraisal
2.21      As defined in the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report on the Third
Agricultural Credit Project, the purpose of the study was to determine the
impact of the project on beneficiaries. Para 3.16 reads as follows:
"The proposed project would finance case studies which would
monitor and evaluate the impact of the subloans on farmers' income,
expenditure pattern, financial condition, attitudes and social
well-being.,



le
Status of the Studies
2.22      Durirg discussions, prior to drafting of terms of r6ference for the
study, it was concluded that trying to determine the impact of the Third
Credit Project would not be practical. In most cases subloans committed under
the project had not even been fully dravn. It was decided that trying to
determine the impact of these projects at thls early stage of development
would be premature and ineffective.
2.23      In an attempt to get a more meaningful determination and given that
the Third Credit Project was essentially an extension of the Second Credit
Project, it was decided to broaden the scope of the study to include subloans
funded under the second project as well. This was approved by the World bank
and reflected in the terms of reference.
2.24      Initially the studies were to be of an even broader scope and were
to include the formulation of a system for monitoring the physical progress of
projects and the performance of managing agents employed on them. Invitations
to bid for the studies were sent to four overseas firms. In the meantime it
was decided that ABPNG would address the management information aspects of the
studies internally and the scope of the project was pared back to only
determine the socioeconomic impact of credlt, with an explicit mention of the
impact of subsidized credit.
2.25      The contract for performing the studies was negotiated with the
Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research (lASER) and performed by
Dr. Michael Walters, a full time staff member of IASER and Andrew Parker, a
former Economist with ABPNO.
Impact of the Studies
2.26      Unfortunately, there was little impact as a result of the studies.
A seminar was held and attended by representatives of various government
departments including the Department of Agriculture and the Department of
Finance and Planning. At the seminar the findings of the consultants at the
draft final stage of thelr report were revealed. Salient poLnts of discussion
and comments made at the seminar were incorporated into the final report.
2.27      Upon receipt of the final report, an  information paper was prepared
and submitted to the Board of Directors who essentially refused to accept its
content on the grounds that they felt it too early to determ'ne the impact of
the project on the targeted beneficiaries. As a result the report was never
made available to che public or even to other departments/divisions and
branches of the bank.



19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2624-PIG)
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED SANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Yer of
Loan/Credit Title                         Purpose                   Approval   Status   Comsmnts
1. The Popondetta       Settlement of or assistance to 1,400 emall-   1907      Closed   PCR Issued
Seal holder Oil Palo  holders mach planing 4 he of oll palm and              Dec. 64 Nov. 196
Dovelopeant Projoct   provision of crodit through ABNO, extension
(Ln. 13U4-PNQ)       and inspection services, tecknical ssIs-
tane to Improve mnanx     , improvement  In
roadworks and social infrastructuro, metb-
tlsh_nt of nucloue estate (41,00 he) and a
60 ton FF3 proce"ing mill.
2. Southern Highlands    Funding for research Into substml ece crops,  1907     Closmd   PCR issued
Rural DoveIopment    nutrition and health of the people, expan-              Now. 65 Nov. 1985
Project (Cr.U41-PNO)  sion of coffee. tea, milk end cardamom pro-
ductlon, provision of agricultural extension
service and construction of roads and
social Infrastructure.
8. Second Agricultural  Loending for tre crop developmet ned other  1981        Closd  PCR Issued
Credit Project (Cr.  agricultural subproject and expamlov of                 Dec. 64 Feb. 1986
1149-PNO)            related agricultural service.
4. Nucleus Estate and   Development of oil palm and cocoa i the       1ow       Ongoing  Expected
Smallholder I        Milne Say province' funding for  ssdcalted                       closing data
Project (Ln. 2609-   processing facilities and Infrastrub're                         SUpt. 1002
PNO)                 support.
Table 2: PROJECT TIMESA L
Item                    Date Planned             Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification                      -                        -                         Hay 1982
Preparation                         -                                            November 1982
Appraisal                           -                                                  Hay 1983
Post-Appraisal                                               -            February/March 1985
Negotiations                        -                        _                July 9-12, 1985
Board Approval                      -                        -             September 19, 1985
Loan Signature                      -                        -                    Hay 23, 1986
Loan Effectiveness                  August 23, 1986          -                August 29, 1986
Loan Closing                 June 30, 1989         December 31, 1989         January 16, 1990
Loan Completion           December 31, 1988   December 31, 1989    December 31, 1989



20
Table 3:  LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
($ '000)
1990 up to
1986       1987       1988        1989           16.1.90
Appraisal estimate                   2,400       8,600      17,600      18,800         18,800
Actual                                    -      3,600      10,900      16,700         18,800
Actual as Z of estimate                   0         42           62          89            100
Date of Final Disbursement                               January 16, 1990
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
KEY INDICATORS
A. Subloan Aoprovals and Disbursements
(K '000)
Subloan                       AoDrovale                         Disbur m_nt_
Categories        1986    1987   1998   1989  Tote l   1986  1987  1989  1989   Total   X
Cocoa            4,968   7,699  2,461   40  16,048  1,462 8,818  8,906  2,685  11,281   76
Oil Palm          2,048   2,019     96  -60   4,092   1,297  1,004    740      67   8,128  76
Poultry and
piggery            509     111    -26   176    769    484      62    21    177    764   99
Now crops &
Misc. agr. La      778   1,409    620   28   2,724    671    780   628    171   2,050   76
Agro-
process. Lb        189     272    -29     8    486    162   207       64      6     429  98
Agro-
transport        1,384   1,728   808   86   8,98n  1,160  1,656   680   229   8,764   97
Agro-
equipment /c       899     199   -89    0       659    864   201       2      0      667  100
Total         10.200  18.882  8.7!f    218 27.621   5.480  7.147 6.141  8.205 21.978  80
Include. timber milling and logging, peanuts, rubber, rice, market gardening and others.
Includes subloans for cocoa and coffee processing.
Includes fishing and earthmoving equlpmnt.
Notes: Negative approvals means withdrawal of approvals from previous year.
I - disbursement as a Z of approvals.



21
B. Subloan Disbursement
(K '000)
Appraisal                 Actual as a Z of
estimate      tctual         appraisal
Cocoa                                   4,424        11,281            255
Oil Palm                                2,438         3,128            128
Poultry and piggery                     2,585           764             30
New crops and misc. agric.              2,531         2,050             81
Agro-processing                           516           429             83
Agricultural transport                  3,530         3,764            107
Agricultural equipment                  4,347           557             13
Total                               20,371        21,973            108
C. Loan Size
(K '000)
A_ppraisal Estimate                  Actual
No. of              Average    No. of              Average
subloans   Amount      size    subloans   Amount    size
Cocoa                     270    4,424      16.4          147   11,281      76.7
Oil palm                1,200    2,438       2.0          956    3,128       3.3
Poultry and piggery        21    2,585    123.1            71       764     10.8
New crops and
misc. agric.             58    2,351      43.6          419    2,050       4.9
Agro-processing            81       516      6.4          195       429      2.2
Total                1,630   12,494       7.7        1.789   17,652       9.9
D. Area Planted
(ha)
Appraisal                 Actual as 2 of
estimate     Actual        appraisal
Cocoa                                     4,580        4,826            106
Oil palm                                  4,800        3,900             81
New crops and misc. agric.                  570         n.a.



22
E.. Pro1ect Beneficiaries
Appraisal /a
estimate         Actual
Cocoa                                           2,030           1,323
Oil palm                                        1,200             956
Poultry and piggery                                21              71
New crops and misc. agriculture                    58             108
Agro-proces sing                                   81            n.a.
Agricultural transport                           n.a.             537
Agricultural equipment                           n.a.            n.a.
Total                                        3.400           2,995
la   Except for cocoa, others are individually owned.  Cocoa production was
planned to be developed through three typess 1,600 ha to be redeveloped
in 100 ha biocks owned by a group of about 20 families; 2,080 ha to be
newly developed in 20 ha blocks each owned by a group of about 10-15
families; and 900 ha to be replanted by 150 settler families. The total
number of loans would be 1,630 made up of cocoa subloans 270
(16 + 104 + 150), oil palm 1,200, poultry and piggery 21, new crops 58,
and agro-processing 81.



23
TAhL 6J PROJICT COmTS AS FNAuNCDiO
A.  qroct Co
Actual as a U
Aooroloul              ^AcoL            of appraisal
ItOs                        Lo    Forelgn To-IC   Loual Foreign Total       estimat
cocoa                        3.7    1.2    4.9    8.5   10.4   18.0            284
Ol1 Palo                     1.7    0.9    2.6    8.2    0.4    8.6            180
Poultry A plgery            1.9    0.8    2.7    0.6    0.5    1.0             87
Now crops                    0.6    0.2    0.6    0.2    0.0    0.2             25
Misc. agrlculture            1.8    0.6    1.9    2.5    0.5    8.0            158
Agro-proceesing              0.8    0.8    0.6    0.1    0.4    0.5             Is
Agricultural trOnsport       -       4.4    4.4    0.9    8.0    4.7           102
Agricultural equipment       -       5.     5.6    -        -      -            -
Subtotal                  0.5   14.S   28.7   10.9   )0.0   26.0            114
Institutional SUDDOO 
V hibie   a *Ui- Ie          0.0    0.5    0.5    0.0    0.7    0.7            140
Technical assistance         0.1    0.7    0.8    0.2    0.?    0.9            118
Staff training a fellowships  0.6    0.5    1.0    0.5    0.2    0.7            70
Studies                      0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.1            100
InerementOl operational
eXMpnses                   4.2    1.0    5.2    1.2    0.0    1.2             28
Subtotal                  4.6    Lf    7.6         4     j_    L-_           46
Total PeoJct Cost        14.0   17.0   81.8   2L.l9  1l-    80.5             97
Comments
Actual operating expenses have been estimated onu.he basis only of
running expenses of vehicles procured under Bank loan. Staff salaries were
excluded as ABPNG, as part of the staff retrenchment program.r9quired in the
project Action Plan, had agreed to reduce total staff. However, the bank
actually increased its staff and opened additional representative offices
during 1985-89 for reasons not related to project operations.



24
B. Proiect Financing
($ '000)
Planned loan
Agreement       Revised          Final
Source                                         S               S              X
IBRD
- Subloans                        16,400           17,050           17,037
- Vehicles & equipment               500              440              440
- Technical assistance               800              660              666
- Staff training & fellowships    1,000               575              582
- Studies                            100               75               75
Subtotal                       18,800       60  18,800     60   18,800    60
Government                         5,500       18   5,500      18    7,300    24
ABPNG                               4,200      13   4,200      13    3,400    10
Beneficiaries                      2,800        9   2,800       9    1,000      3
Total                          31,300      100  31,300    100   30,500   100
Comments
(a) Because of small cost underrun, loan disbursements contributed
62 percent of total project cost (60 percent estimated at
appraisal).
(b) Difference of $200,000 between actual project cost ($30,500,000) and
financing amount $30,300,000) was due to rounding
(c) Savings in institutional support component (vehicles, TA, training
and studies) amounting to about $650,000 were reallocated to the
subloan category. Non-recruitment of the training specialist
generated much of the savings in technical assistance. Savings also
occurred in staff training expenses as the funds were mainly applied
to the provisions of in-house courses organized by the bank's
training division.



25
TABLE 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Estimated actual at full
Indicators                     Appraisal estimates           development
Area Planted (ha)
- Cocoa                                4,580                   4,826
- Oil palm                             4,800                   3,900
Production (tons)
- Cocoa (dry bean)                     7,325                   7,384/a
- Oil palm (FFB)                      86,400                  66,300
Yield (ton/ha)
- Cocoa                        1.60 - 1.75 - 1.25       1.60 - 1.50 - 1.10
- Oil palm (FFB)                          18                      17
No. of beneficiaries                   3,400                   2,995
Employment creation                    3,500                   3,200
/a   Estimated assuming a mix o'l 100 ha, 20 ha and 6 ha block at 7s2:1 with
yield respectively at 1.6 tons, 1.5 tons and 1.1 tons per ha



26
B. Economic Impact
(r)
Economic Rate of Return        Appraisal Estimate        PCR Estimate
1.  100 ha cocoa                       38                     15
2.  20 ha cocoa                        30                     18
3.  6 ha cocoa                         22                     17
4.  4 ha oil palm                      33                      8
Assumptions:
Project life                   18 yrs (oil palm)      18 yrs (oil palm)
25 yrs (cocoa)        25 yr. (cocoa)
Farm labor valued at CF of 0.65 K 1.92/man-day          K 2.60/man-day
Standard Conversion Factor            0.965                  0.965
Comments
The main factors contributing to lower ERRs than estimated at
appraisal have been higher development costs (including housing for
smallholders), lower yield projections and a lower price of cocoa and oil palm
than anticipated.
C. Financial Impact
(Z)
Financial Rate of Return            Appraisal EstihsKe        PCR Estimate
1. 100 ha cocoa                               34                    7
2. 20 ha cocoa                                 26                   5
3. 6 ha cocoa                                 31                   18
4. 4 ha oil palm                              45                    6
Incremental Smallholder Family
Cash Income before Loan Repayment
1. 6 ha cocoa ($)                          4,092                3,152
2. 4 ha oil palm (S)                       3,542                1,552



27
D. Studios
Studies                    Purpos   as dot ined at appraisal                           Status                  mpact of Study
Socioeconomic          To monitor and oveluato the  impact of    Report comploted  in    Negligible  Impact
Impaet of              sublosns on farmers' incom,  *xpen-                    January 19O.                  as a result of tho
Rursl  Credit          dituro pattern, financial  condition,                                                 study.
attitudes and social well-being.
TABLE 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Covenants                                        Section                                        Statue
1. Subloan application exceeding K 120C000 to        L.A. Section 2.02 (b)       In colience.
be submitted to the World Bank.
2.  Annual revie  of adequacy of interest             L.A. Section 4.01.         Not in full compliance.  The Inet comprehenive
rates charged by the A     ot and subsidies                                  review was completed In 1967. which led to a
to ASFINO.                                                                   margmnali ncreate In rates to large rural loans and
olo pWal.  1968 review Initiated but not coepleted.
199 review not yet *tarted.
S.  Subcidle- by PNO Government not to exceed         L.A. Section 4.02          Not In compliance.  Subsidies total K 20 million.
K 12 mill ion betwoen January 1968 and
ecember 31. 198.
4.  Qucrterly review of FFS prices.                   L.A. Section 4.00          In partiel compliance.  Last review of coat
coefficient done In 197. Currently, a commodity
working groue is working and has finalized a plan
for cocoa.   t i  now working on e pin for oil
Palm.
5.  Submission of annual work program by
October 31 every year.                                                       P.A. Section 2.09
In compliance.
6.  Submission of Audited SOE and Financial          PA. Sectign 4.01lC11)       SOE Audit comleted and subeitted June 1989.  Audit
Statemnts six months after the end of                                        r=Port of Pinanc;il State_nt 198 compIeted and
each year.                                                                    u itted to Auditor General. Same subequently
finalize  by Auditor Gneral and submitted to World
Bank. Noveer 1. 1969. Audit rPort of Financial
Statement 1969 completed and submitted to Auditor-
Getneral who Is expect to finalize it by end of
Shy 1990.
7. Limitation on ABPNO borrowing to three            PA. S&etion 4.0J            Not In coWlionce. 9cause, of the heavy provisions
time  AIPNO Capital and Surp us.                                             for doubtful loana in 1969. the dibt-equity ratio
is no  4IS1. The bank Is requstin   ho
Government to Inject now capital funds
S. Loans in arrears below 200 of loan                P.A. Section 4.06           In compliance.
outstanding.



28
TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A.  Staff Inputs (slW)
Stage of Project Cycle                      Planned    Revised                      Final
Through appraisal                            n.a.                 n.a.              76.1
Appraisal through Board approval             n.a.                 n.a.               8.0
Board approval through effectiveness  n.a.                        n.a.               n.a.
Supervision                                  n.a.                 30.0              26.0
Total                                                            -             110.1
S. Miesions
Stage of Project              No. of   Days In Special iation    Perfor"nee
Cycle          Month/Year  Persons  Field / Represented Lb Rating Status Ie
Appraisal           May 0s      4         21     EC,EN,IA,FA          -
Post Appraisal   Feb/March 86    2        11       EC,FA              -
Supervision 1 1     May 87       2        17         AG               1
Supervision 2 ii  Oct/Nov. 87    1        25         AG               1
Supervision a      June s8       1        12         EC               1
Supervision 4 /f  June/July 89    2       10       EC,FA              2
Complotion           ay 90      2         22       EC, AG            -
PCCR mission Ostimates based on Bank's project files.
Specialization: EC = Economist; EN a Engineer (Irrigation); AG * Agriculturist; FA
Financial Analyst.
/e Performance Rating: 1 a Problem-free or minor probloes 2 u Moderate probleos; a a Major
problems. Development Impact has however been rated 021 In all supervision reports.
Id   Supervlsion mission also discussed a possible Fourth Credit Project.
C. Costs
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs; broken down by each
stage of the project cycle.



PAPUA NB  UIEA
mHMi  A0RCLTURAL CEDrT PP0JECT
ECONOC  MM 0 A       SP rrs - 4 HM. OtI PAL" MGEL
1967   196   196    1990   19    1992   1998   19A   1995   196   1997   199    199    2000   2001   2002   200    2004   2008   2006   200?   200    2009   2010   2011
ORWITS
?IBLD (WI   F8M1M)                  0      0      0       a     12      is     17      18     17     16      is     15      is     14      18     18      12     12    12       12      12     12      12     12      12
MICIIU    (F          FFO)                                20     46      60      8      72      s     6        o4  6  0      so     SG      52     52      48     48      48     48      48     48      48     48      48
0GCmIc rumK/ I/                                           20     26     8o      84     87      42     40    a8       87      36     8        4     84   S4        84      34   S4       84      84      34     84      34
ooo:m   ot)                    0       0      0    440   126   16        2312   264   26       2560 ZlllO   m        210    1904   178    1        1672   18    1632   162   162   1682   16           168    16
ca4  m
FULD OSARFf   OR)O 21              M      854    8s 4           848    88    374    8         665     74    6"       64      64    854    U4      U   322    62         82      an 820         322    322  s22    322
TUIID n31   a/                    1091    5S     4       46     44     4        64    464    4 6444   4       64    4 64    464    464    484    484    484    484    484    484    464    464    464    464    484
0gm S am                           1 6n    a      77       9     69      so     69      69     69     so      69     69      so     69      69    s6       69     69      69     69     69      69             49
NNW * WtAI T7K 8/                a7
LINU   ALLWAE     8/              468    40S   44        446
TOPAL   STS                 SF4   1415   167   14          696    69      92     968    96    927    017    917    917    Y07    O96    8           G7M            675    67s    678    S75       7     67S       5
NU D4rAL uXWiS 41    -5774  -1415  -17   -0                     82    904   18        1729   1918   16    16    1          1243    99      072    6      75      757    757    757    787    757    757    757    757
- * 
I/ VAI   Di Tom  OF O mPGT           1"O,IT46  Iu6 MM 9        iuS Wm  am    .D 1SI MM
A415 MUCS Iv U M6 a065  MISION ADm    N, IWNSTAT1.
fM AND H00LID3  COSM TO T6 FM om                                                                                                                                                                                    3
2/ 09168  P.9693 fNl f     IAII  AT 0.U6. 
A/ CT9ONFCOR MFM  At AT." 0.5 
4/ WIDGT PUt82C MO6M CONSID   IOIaE>



PAUAR #d wUDEA
1HIM ARIOJL1RAFL OtBXT PRtaJET
E8tONIC COSs .AD 63SEFl - 6 M. CO= 6WEL
1lo7 1968 1969    1990   1991   1992   1sa   M994   199S   199b   19?   I9    199   2000   2001   2002   2008   2004   2006   20o   2007   2008   2009   2010   201
mwcns
To%n            0    0    0    0.27   1.68   2.03   2.57   2.84   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97   2.97
crnw (Mr
M)/TI                         0.8u   3.24   7.29   l.9  14.?  10.76  17.56  17.62  17.62  17.62  17.62  17.62  17.2  17.82  17.62  17.62  17.62 1      7.82  17.8 2  17.62  17.62  17.62
mec CmiE
ITIt V                         200.0a  210.00 218.00 227.00 2s6.00 248.00 269.00 ss9.00  o66.00 435.00 46.00 46.00 46.00 46.00 403.00 463.OD 468.00 486.4a 483.0O  463.0O  46.0O  463.0O
t373 00    0    0    0  106.00 60.40 I89.22 2M9.061S0.J2 4106.20 874.64 00.98 6S76.82 M7.70 e607.06t 07.06 6607.06 6607.06 6607.06 6S67.06 867.06S 607.06 607.06 6e.06 6O07.06a607.06
F73O.  LOP-      M    M   96   912.00 967.00 1116.00 12 09.00I OD 1456.00 1462.00 142.00       142 2.00 14 62.00 14 62.00 142 2.00 1442.00 1462.00 142 2.00 1462.00 1462.00 1462.OD 148.00 146.00 16.00
DUf 2/
MIoAL In-        78  881  647  6s.00 40.00 467.00    .00 869.00 8s.0o   6         8.00 s   8.0  866.0o  868.0o   866.00 866.00  866.00 sss.00 686.00 86.00 88s.00 S68.00 5ss.00 588.00 86800
rPUF 4e          124  801  344  264.00   9.0o  189.00 16.00 19.040 203.00 207.00 206.00 2.0 .00 20       6.40 2OO .00 206.00 208.00 206.00   8.00  06.00 20.00 208.00 208.00 206.00 208.0o
alrwD a/
DUADD S/             2673    0    0.00)  0.00   0.100   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
ACE 3/         468  48  466  466.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.00   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
TUrAL, CWT    996 s    2418 22.c0 181.00 124.00 19O0.00 21O8.00 2244.00 2274.00 2278.00 2M.001 2m7.0 20 s .00 2275.00 2M.00 2.00 2275.00 221.00 227.00 278.00 227.00 2275.0O 225.00 w22.0D
Ur D      fL _ 9 6-86-24-'      1 -:7n.00a -.6O -14.7S 709.0a 14.3262.20 2a00.84 37.96 403.52 476.770 e62.o6        eS0.a 662.06 SS2.08 62.06 e#0 2.e M0822 o2.ce ss2.4s $ a2.$ $2.06 6s2.0
DUffM 4/
E   17 m
I/ WAUC DO 5ar OF afTMFf 1990  1CM 62461CEs  MJB8MO3 WM ON WM  QU4 MM 0Mmn "IMU    BY ID or01  01m10.
A5113D FOR 1UMrATON. M DM  APD MWODO   73 TO BE f 06 MM.                                                                 W
2/ C368Nr FACTR FOR PAI LAM AT o.es.
3/  TM1 LOCAL 0n57 COSET5  TO w RM  RM  0Ss  A TAN5M        00IEiO fAR OF 0.6.
4/ WIlrH0-PMJECT Re8.8  036       E5 N.1013BS.



fi     *  Ut          $ii N    I 
a      *      a     II  IN    I 
D      '  Ut |       ii IN   I   I 
I 8.                  I l  31  0     I      |
I§        a  13  ii               !   i 
4QX  !     sa  Ut       jl  lIi   I,g
m   3          a                                 I  f                
a   U     a                $ii N    I   It 
U      U            I l  RN Ig           i:  I  
U                   II  'I | |                     i|
1         0§g  g       '|giI    *       ,i 0



32                 Tbe9
g~~ |          at I         a1i! 
|~~ |          at 'li  al  
{~~ .      . |  a' il      
|~   |         at I  11  IE   
|~~ |          at |         a1 iE   
i~~~              at |     I        j     |Xe
|g~~~ u            at  W |  1 IE   
!  Xa          at  m  1 i        'H f
~~!      °     XS                  :11|X lEg
E§g 0         111 2iWg           1 



hjI*                                             Ii4'                                             AP147-                                          150-                                            153'
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
M A N U S                            Lor nGo                           I                                  EW          THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MANUS             0                                                  R f I A N  D                                  PROPOSED PROJECT   PRgVIOUS PROJECT
j 0.,mo                       I                                                                                                                               Kov,eng                                                                CROU,F:CEE
,                                                             i                                                                                                                                                                       CCOOA
OIL PALM
I  -  I                                                                                                                                                            *:I:.:I-y   POULTRY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POLH
I  j               _  _                                                                                          NEW   IRELANO                           MAJMOR ROADS (NATIONALI
I  WES  Wwok                                     FUTURE MAJOR ROUSS INUTIOSULI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUR MORROD (ATONL
S  E / 5                               W    k            i                                                                                                                                                         MAjOA SECONDARY ROADS (PROVINCIAL)
5  f   p                                                                                                                                                                                            M~~~~~~~~~~~~~  OANTUINOUS AREAS
r                                                                               -  -   --  -  -                                                             --PR     PRVINCIAL ROUODARIES
\                                                                                                                 RoboKMA    D    A   N   G  /  \  I   - -  INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARICS
X 1 J - - A / W t S r N E W 5 l7/ T A / N \\ f rI                                                                                                                              OODETERS 0    40    R     0 20 120
-                                X,                                                              \   '                                 r,-  <                                                                        5;,=  I-,  ' 
4                            --*..j---**-..                                             r                                                                                       ..)                                                                  A   00 _0   A ISLAD   '
C  I  -.*                    t                                                                                                                                  Biollog"  > ';sSJg>\/jet        r NgW            TA/N   
ENIA                                         MIdw                                                                                                                                            Sohono
Z     I                                                                                                                                           Kim 2
z~~~~~ Keoo - ~47
C                                                                                                                                                        I                         SOC/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GA IN VILL  / 
(  ,,                                                                                                         Ni       Kisso /I  0  NORRHERN   /   Klrlj JKj
F'                                        ,   i                                                                                                                                                                                   AeTnt/<>pndloI{j ' 
r                               N/O/AD>                >                                                                                                                                                                ISLANO                         /
.                                                                                                                                                           A s r /N \W   SR/TA/N                         B 
, t.,   ' FHILIFFINES                   ./                                   | H>H*A  *_A'0                                                                                                                           i
MOROSE'ElA  ' .RIH.               I
X  ,s  ,  D~~~~~>oA NtV GDIDIEA      i                                       l                                                   !I&fL/4tA)
.~~~~~~Dr ,           0                                                                                      ErA                                                                                                       ~rn
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr J                                       MO1P uoke                                                                  ISLANDS~ 
I                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~       
PHL  WtESTEN~N                                                                                                                  
NEW  (,--                                   -      j'-At.u-----
IAI,l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                          NORTHRNUINEA'
g A U.,  T RALIA                                                                                                                     - 14  1E4RE515AA
-        P  A NEW GUNEA
"ALAND ~ ~   ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        CNRA 
NEW                E                                                                                                                                                                              -         ~~-------    ----    --  ----
IU44                                           147                                             ISO,                                            153                                             15o



