Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCUIL USSE ONLY
RepowtNo. P-4143.-PNG
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18.8 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
September 5, 1985
Ih' de.t hm a u_dbi dbt h. k              ma I. hesi bY ree4b eiydY b the peodame Of
omeha idl.. lb mh.k a" m  dheihe__ _ be dbdesm  go   Wm Bek              _M.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Kina (K)*
CaLendar 1984            March 31, 1985
US$1.00     =      K 0.8944                   K 0.9435
K 1         =      US$1.118                  US$1.0599
K 1 million =  US$1,118,000               US$1,u59,900
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AND ABPNG
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                   =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                  =  2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                  =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)        =  0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                    = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABPNG      -  AgricuLture Bank of Papua New Guinea
BPNC       -  Bank of Papua New Guinea
BCL        -  Bougainville Copper, Ltd.
DPI        -  Department of Primary Industry
ICA        -  International Coffee Agreement
NBPOD      -  New Britain Palm Oil Development Ltd.
PNG        -  Papua New Guinea
*    The Kina is tied to a basket of currency and floats against the dollar on
a day-to-day basis.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Beneficiary:         Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea (ABPNG)
Loan Amount:         US$18.8 miLlion equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 16 years including 7 years of grace at the
standard variable rate.
Relending Terms:    The Government of Papua New Guinea would relend the
proceeds of the proposed loan to ABPNC at a fixed interest
rate of 3Z p.a. for a period of 16 years including seven
years of grace, and bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks. ABPNG would onlend the proceeds at interest
rates ranging from 5% to 20X p.a. with variable repayment
terms depending on the activities being finAnced.
Project
Description:     The project aims at increasing and broadening the agricul-
tural exports of Papua New Guinea (PNG), providing a
better livelihood for rural families, and gradually
strengthening ABPNG as a development finance institu-
tion. The project would: (a) provide funds to ABPNG to
onlend for tree crop development, new crops and other
agricultural activities, livestock, agro-processing
facilities, and agricultural equipment and vehicles;
(b) strengthen ABPNG by providing data processing facili-
ties, vehicles, funds for staff training, fellowships,
studies, and technical assistance for improving its
masn.gewnent and financial performance. The project's
benefits include an increase in PNG's annual exports of
tree crops by about US$21.5 million, improvement in the
standard of living of about 3,400 smallholder families and
gradual expansion of ABPNG's lending capacity. The
primary project risk is ABPNG's capability to implement
the project adequately in view of its organizational
problems (e.g. shortage of qualified staff, lack of
planning and inadequate financial control). To minimize
this risk, the project stresses the institutional develop-
ment of ABPNG through an Action Program and Financial
Strategy, technical assistance, and staff training. With
these safeguards, the risk is acceptable.
This docunment has a resed distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disled without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs: /a                       Local      Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
Subprojects                        9.5        14.2          23.7
Vehicles and equipment              -          0.5           0.5
Technical assistance               0.1         0.7           0.8
Staff training and fellowships    0.5          0.5           1.0
Studies                             -          0.1           0.1
Incremental operating expenses    4.2          1.0           5.2
Total Project Cost              14.3        17.0          31.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                               1.8        17.0          18.8
Government                         5.5          -            5.5
ABPNG                              4.2          -            4.2
Beneficiaries                      2.8          -            2.8
Total                           14.3        17.0         31.3
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY         1986      1987       1988      1989
sU$ million) 
Annual                          2.4        6.2       9.0        1.2
Cumulative                      2.4        8.6      17.6       18.8
Rate of Return: Rates of return of farm models for the various subprojects
range from 22Z to 38Z.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5635-PNG dated September 3, 1985.
Map No. 17314R IBRD
/a   Including about US$0.2 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) for the equivalent of
US$18.8 million, to help finance a Third Agricultural Credit Project. The
loan will have a term of 16 years, including seven years of grace, at the
standard variable rate. The Government vill relend the proceeds of the pro-
posed loan to ABPNG at a fixed interest rate of 3X p.a. for a period of
16 years with seven years grace. ABPNG in turn will onlend the proceeds at
interest rates ranging from 52 to 20% p.a. with variable repayment terms
depending on the activities being financed.
PART I - THE ECONDOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNG), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section reflects the findings of
subsequent econcAic missious and draws upon various country documents and
recent IMF work. A Country Economic Memorandum for Papua New Guinea is now
under preparation.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of numerous, widely scattered islands,
rugged and sometimes impenetrable mountains, and rich valleys and coastal
plains. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral resources,
and forestry and fishery resources of good-commercial potential. The capital
city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an enclave, with no
road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest urban settlement
in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita GNP in 1984 was
estimated at US$760. Despite this relatively high figure, Papua New Guinea
remains an exceedingly poor country, where the majority of the multi-tribal
society lives at a level of, or scarcely above, subsistence. The figures for
monetary incomes are biased upwards by the inclusion of the incomes of
expatriates, and thus give a misleading indication of the income level of the
nationals. The population in 1984 is officially estimated at 3.3 million,
spread among 19 provinces (with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000),
each with its own assembly and separate administrative apparatus.
4.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the enclave sector,
particularly copper mining and associated investments, and by the public
sector. In the late 1970s copper, mined by Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL),
accounted for about 15Z of GDP; by 1982 this had fallen to 7.8Z as prices
declined sharply and as the more productive veins were being exhausted.
However, new investments in 1982, together with some improvements in copper



and gold prices, brought BCL's value-added to 10.5% of GDP in 1983. With
declining ore grades and prices, performance is likely to be considerably
lower in 1984. Construction of the new Ok Tedi mine generated about 12% of
GDP in 1983 (largely through capital investments representing roughly 45X of
PNG's total investments), thus more than compensating for the decline in
BCL. Since gold production came onstream in June 1984, Ok Tedi's contribution
to value-added in the mining sector has grown to a point where, together with
new copper production, it should reach about 12.5% of GDP in 1987. Non-mining
industry accounts for about 9% of GDP (low for a country of PNG's per capita
income), while government services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the
upper ranks, account for about one quarter of the total. Strikingly, the
primary sector, which employs about 85% of the labor force, contributes only
about 35% of GDP, a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.
5.        PNC's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, real per capita growth was negative at -0.2% per annun
despite the strong growth in copper exports. The latter half of the decade
was even worse in per capita income terms (-0.5% per annum), despite some good
years, particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the
1970s were roughly neutral. Between 1980-82, real GDP has stagnated -
implying a real decline in per capita income of about 2.4Z. The situation
stabilized in 1982, as domestic adjustment policies became effective, and
improved significantly in the second half of 1983 as export prices
recovered. As a result, GDP growth in 1983 reached 1%, lower than the 2.3%
population growth, but still an improvement over the earlier years. In these
years the deterioration in the terms of trade did bite as the Government cut
back services and capital investments and restricted the growth in the money
supply to protect the balance of payments and the value of the kina. With the
unfavorable terms of trade effect, gross domestic income has fallen 20Z since
1979. On the other hand, the upturn in the economy gathered momentum in
1984. Real growth reached 2.2% and is expected to be around 6.5% in 1985,
largely because of the start-up of the Ok Tedi mine and continued favorable
prices for agricultural exports.
6.        PNG's growth performance in recent years has been particularly
vulnerable to swings in international comodity prices that began in 1980.
The price of copper dropped to its lowest level in 30 years, leading to a fall
of K 42 million in budgetary resources derived from BCL between 1981 and 1982
and a further decline of K 19 million in 1983. The prices of agricultural
export commodities have fallen by half since the late 1970s, although the
situation improved in 1983 and 1984. Lower export receipts depressed economic
activity and reduced imports through 1982.  In 1983 and 1984, however, average
export receipts jumped by over 20%, while average imports rose by 7%. After
taking account of the budget support grant of about US$255 million a year from
Australia, the current account deficit in 1983 was US$367 million, or about
16% of GDP. The US$330 million external current account deficit in 1984,
roughly equal to 13% of GDP, was an improvement over 1983. The current
account deficit is likely to continue declining in 1985 to about US$260
million (11% of CDP). With a high level of official and private capital
flows, the deficits were covered without undue strain on reserves or on the
debt-service ratio.



7.        In order to reduce the impact of export price fluctuations on the
economy and on the producers of export crops, the Government has taken a
number of measures. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to
smooth the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabiliza-
tion funds for coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscilla-
tions in prices received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural
products have had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they
have contributed to the stability of the economy. For the most part they have
shielded producers from income declines and, with the exception of the copra
fund, their total resources are still relatively healthy as a result of
substantial levies accumulating in the late 1970s, when export prices were at
historical highs.
8.        Between 1972 and 1976, following the establishment of the Minimum
Wage Board, real minimum wages had more than doubled, giving PNG the highest
wage costs of the developing countries in the region. The urban minimum wage
is currently equal to nearly US$50 per week. Since independence from
Australia in 1975, two three-year wage agreements lim:ted the rise of both
public and private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, subject
to an annual maximum of 11.75Z, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real
wages that occurred during the 1972-76 period. The wage situation was
accompanied by a "hard kina" policy causing the kina to appreciate vis-a-vis
PNG's major trading partners, which had the effect of dampening wage demands
and keeping down prices of imports (40Z of GDP by value). This tended to
offset somewhat imported inflation, so that the increase in domestic price
levels has averaged about 7.5% between 1977 and end-1982 as compared with the
international inflation index of 8.7Z.
9.        Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government sought to impose a three-year freeze on urban
wages starting in 1983. The Minimum Wage Board rejected this stringent
approach proposed by the Government,-deciding in favor of full indexation of
the first five percentage point change in the CPI, but with no further
indexation. This resulted in an approximate 2.8% and 2.5Z erosion in real
wages in 1983 and 1984, respectively. The kina had been allowed to appreciate
until March 1983, when parity with the Australian dollar was maintained at the
time of its 10% devaluation, thus resulting in a 5.5% devaluation of the kina
against its basket of currencies. The Government is gradually reducing the
real value of the kina, both through wage restraint and - although not
officially - through a gradual downward float.
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened revenue position
by raising taxes in 1982 and 1983, lowering government expenditure by 10% in
the latter year, and laying off some 2,000 employees, about 4% of the total
public service. Preliminary estimates indicate that the public account
deficit in 1984 was about K 25 million (1.1% of GDP), the lowest deficit in
years. As was the case in 1983, little of this was financed by borrowing from
the Central Bank. Borrowings from foreign commercial banks are estimated at
about US$20 million in 1984, as compared with US$60 million in 1983. The 1985
revised budget estimates show a deficit of K 77 million. However, according
to a recently reached understanding between the Governments of Papua New
Guinea and Australia, the Australian grant to PNG for 1986-1990 will be



reduced by 3X per annum in real terms. This is likely to result in further
curtailment of Government expenditure in order to contain the budgetary
deficits within manageable limits over the medium-term.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.       Since the country's independence in 1975, a concerted effort was
made to define a set of economic and social priorities according to which
government resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more
weight had been given to developing a decision-making process for the
budgeting of government resources than to the preparation and implementation
of a comprehensive development plan. While a National Development Strategy
(NDS) was defined and strategic objectives identified as the basis for
resource allocation, these had not represented a basis for a growth-oriented
development strategy as such.
12.       The NDS placed a high priority on improving the quality of life for
the rural population, focusing on rural development in the less developed
areas of the country. While this focus remains, it is now to be set within
the context of a growth-oriented strategy. This objective recognizes not only
the agricultural potential of the country, but also the fact that for quite a
few generations the agricultural sector will be the main source of employment.
13.       For several years, PNG has had a four-year plan known as th2
National Public Expenditure Plan. This plan focuses on capital expenditures
for the first year of the (rolling) plan, concentrating on the recurrent costs
of capital projects and the ability of the budget to support them. (This
feature is rare in developing country planning and is expected to be retained
under the new planning system, which is still being worked out.) Currently
the Government is in the process of revising its planning procedures,
partially in response to Bank recommendations, in order to take a somewhat
longer-term view and to ey7ompass -a broader review of both capital and recur-
rent budget requirements.-
14.       The Government's current approach to carrying out its intentions is
to develop a Hediur-Term Development Plan (MTDP). This will: (a) review the
current economic situation and forecast how it could be expected to develop
over the next five years (1986-90) based on an appropriate financing strategy;
(b) involve the preparation of medium-term public investment program and its
national allocation among various sectors and agencies; (c) contain a set of
policies and strategies that will make it possible to carry out the public
investment program.
Development Issues
15.       The major factors that will affect the Government's ability to pro-
mote economic development are the decentralization of government activities,
1/ Ref. "Public Sector Management in Papua New Guinea: An Administrative
Overview," June 27, 1983 - Report No. 4396-PNG.



the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial resources,
and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation and invest-
ment in the agricultural sector.
16.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to carry through its set
priorities, while inadequate staffing limits the capabilities of the provinces
to develop their own plans. Decentralization in PNG was a necessary response
to local pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory
and financial control in some areas and will share power with the national
Government in others. They are financed through national government grants
and refunds of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own
taxation measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend
according to their own priorities, are by far the most important source of
finance; but, whereas in the 1984 budget they comprised over 70% of the total
receipts of the provinces, they amounted to less than 25Z of total national
government revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial
governments is the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most
urgent priority of the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting,
planning, and project identification and preparation.
17.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals, especially consid-
ering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first graduates as
recently as 1972. However, the country still relies heavily on expatriates
for many necessary services. This situation has created a relatively high-
cost government. The establishment of provincial governments is adding to the
pressures on existing human and financial resources, and the policy of
localizing positions held by expatriates adds to the demand for trained Papua
New Guineans.
18.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance are
reflected in the steady growth of the share of domestic revenue in total
budgetary receipts. Domestic revenue accounted for only about 36% of
government receipts in FY68,'/ 60S of the total in FY76 (immediately after
Independence), and 712 in 1984. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville
copper mine has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the
total and reaching a peak of 27% in FY76, but falling to about 3Z in 1984.
While mineral revenues should be modestly restored in 1985, when the Ok Tedi
mine is expected to become fully operational, revenues from these sources may
not regain their former share of overall revenues.
19.       While economic management has been largely sound, the country's
growth performance has been disappointing. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great
2/   PuG's fiscal year was July 1-June 30 until January 1, 1978 when it was
changed to coincide with the calendar year.



- 6 -
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, the sector's output remains low, and prospects for the coming
decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster growth. The major
constraints have been inadequate extension services for smallholders, lack of
smallholder credit, customary land tenure practices and shortage of managerial
expertise.
External Debt
20.       During the period 1985-1987, PNG is likely to require an average net
capital inflow of about US$300 million p.a. The minerals sector is expected
to finance considerably more than half of the inflow through direct foreign
investment and borrowing: Ok Tedi-related borrowings were US$330 million in
1983. With respect to official borrowings, public debt service ratio,
estimated at 11% in 1983, is expected to grow slowly, and by 1990 would be at
around 13%. Thus, despite the relatively large current account deficit
forecast for 1985, PNG's external position is likely to continue to be
comfortable. Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1983
amounted to US$765 million, of which US$149 million (19%) was owed to the Bank
Group. Debt service payments to the Bank Group are only about 8Z of total
debt service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 
21.      As of March 31, 1985, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 14 loans and 13 development credits, totaling US$318.0 million.
The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved
in 1968; more recently a West Sepik development project (US$9.7 million) was
approved by the Board in October 1984 and a Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
Project (US$27.6 million) on July 23, 1985. In general, project implementa-
tion has been satisfactory. The first rural development project in the
Southern Highlands experienced some difficulties with recruitment of essential
expatriate staff as the rapid turnover of expatriates and the transitional
problems of recruiting and training their replacements led to delays.
Physical implementation is now approximately on schedule. As of March 31,
1985, nine credits and seven loans were fully disbursed, and the loans and
credits to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$302.8
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits.
22.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture, with
strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy.  The
Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives: (a) support
for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) development of oppor-
tunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based on the substantial agri-
cultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion of human resource
3I  Part II is essentially the same as the corresponding section of the
President's Report for the Bank loan for the Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder Project (Report No. P-4066-PNG, dated May 31,1985).



development. A rural roads project and a third power project are under pre-
paration. The proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project vill assist in
development of the agricultural potential of PNG in line with the above
objectives.
23.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple pre-independence
projects and the fact that they were m"9aged by an experienced expatriate
civil service. The disbursement rate 4 for FY85 was 28.31, compared to an
average of 30.41 for FY81-85. Disbursement rates for selected comparators for
FY81-85 were as follows: Colombia - 27.01; Philippines - 22.2X; Morocco -
16.2%; and Benin - 26.2Z. It does not seem possible to determine a trend
since low disbursement years are followed by a high disbursement year, then
another low disbursement year. PNC's disbursement figures reflect periodic
disbursements of substantial amounts against individual large projects rather
than steady disbursements for all projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND
THE AGRICULTURE BANK OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
The Agricultural Sector
24.       Agriculture plays a dominant role in the PNG economy as employer and
provider of food and income to more than 85Z of PNG's population. The sector,
including forestry, fisheries and livestock, accounted for more than 40Z of
PNG's K 687 million exports in 1983 and about a third of its GDP. PNG enjoys
a humid tropical climate which is conducive to agricultural production, espe-
cially of tree crops. The land area of 461,700 km' is Rparsely populated (an
average of seven persons per km2) and nearly 150,000 km' (30%) is topographical-
ly, geologically and climatically suited to agriculture. With only about half
of this suitable land currently used for agriculture, there is considerable
scope for increased utilization.
25.       Tree Crop Subsector.  Tree crops cover about 476,000 ha (1%) of land
in PWG, but account for 77Z of agricultural exports and 40% of agricultural
production. Tree crop production volume increased by 4X p.a. from
253,500 tons in 1978 to 290,600 tons in 1983, mainly due to increases in oil
palm and coffee. However, due to declining commodity prices, the value of
these exports declined from K 228.3 million in 1978 to K 217.6 million in
1983.
26.       The main tree crops are coffee, cocoa, coconut and oil palm.  Coffee
is the most important tree crop, accounting for almost half of tree crop
4/   The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbursed balance.



- 8 -
export value. Production forecasts based on current plantings show a decline
due to early plant senility and associated disease susceptibility. About 22
of PNG's total coffee area needs to be replanted/rehabilitated per year in
order to maintain its current average production level of about 50,000 tons.
Cocoa accounts for about 19Z of the value of tree crop exports. Production
has declined by about 20Z since its peak of about 35,000 tons in 1974/75 due
to tree senility, pests and diseases, and current low average yields of about
0.3 tons/ha. However, locally selected, disease-resistant varieties are now
available and, given good management conditions, the prospects for increasing
cocoa yields are excellent. Copra accounts for only 15% of tree crop exports
and has steadily lost area to the other crops, particularly to oil palm which
experienced production and export growth of more than 20% p.a. during
1978-83. Oil palm is now the fastest growing segment of the tree crop
subsector in PNG due to its higher profitability, resulting from its high
yields and good market demand. For all these crops, smallholders provide the
greater part of overall production.
27.       Piggery and Poultry.  Pigs and chickens have traditionally been part
of the subsistence farming systems of PNG smallholders and are gaining
increasing importance in the commercial sector as well. About 99Z of pigs and
75% of poultry are raised by smallholders. Recent growth performance of these
industries has been strong as indicated by a 25% annual growth rate for
poultry and 13% for pigs over the last five years.
Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
28.       The main goals of Government's agricultural development policies
are: to improve the livelihood of rural families, to increase and broaden
agricultural exports, and to reduce food imports. Its strategy to accomplish
these goals has focussed on: (a) an open economy with emphasis on a strong
private sector supported by agricultural credit and export crop stabilization
funds; (b) the support of clans and other traditional groups as recognized
legal entities, while acknowledging individual land rights in clan lands, as a
basis for long-term farm improvements; (c) the delegation of major development
responsibilities to the provincial level; (d) financial and management assis-
tance to nationals to enable them to assume responsibility for plantations
formerly owned and managed by expatriates; and, (e) expansion of specialized
agricultural training, and improvements in the remuneration and working condi-
tions of agricultural support staff.
29.       In the last few years Government has shown renewed awareness that
agriculture will remain the mainstay of PNG's economy for many years. This
recognition is manifested in its greater flexibility on expatriate ownership
and management of plantations, in the formulation of a medium-term development
strategy, and in its efforts to improve agricultural services such as
research, extension and credit.
World Bank Experience with Past Lending
30.       Bank support to agricultural and rural development in PNG began even
before the country's independence in 1975. In 1972 the First Agricultural
Credit Project (Cr. 348-PNC) provided finance for development of smallholder



- 9 -
beef, pig and poultry enterprises. This was followed by the Popondetta
Smallholder Oil Palm Project (Ln. 1333-PNG) which assisted some 1,400 small-
holders to develop 4 ha oil palm blocks. A Second Agricultural Credit Project
(Cr. 1149-PNG) continued assistance for tree crop development by providing
funds to ABPNG for this and other agricultural investments. Support has also
been provided for provincial development projects in the Southern Highlands
(Cr. 841-PNG), Enga (Ln. 2125/Cr. 1227-PNG) and West Sepik (Ln. 2475-0-PNG),
three of the country's least developed provinces. A nucleus estate and
smallholder project approved on July 23, 1985 would develop oil palm and cocoa
in Milne Bay Province (Ln. 2608-PNG). Finally, an Agricultural Support
Services Project (Ln. 2276-PNG) is strengthening areas such as research,
training, extension and sector planning.
31.       The Second Agricultural Credit Project was completed on December 30,
1984 and funds have been fully disbursed. Three major problems were
encountered by ABPNG in the course of project implementation: (a) supervision
of the management agencies assisting smallholders to carry out subproject
activities required strengthening; (b) its budgeting required improvement; and
(c) an arrears management program was needed to improve collection and
financial performance. ABPNG has taken action to address these problems and
the proposed project would further strengthen these efforts, as well as
improve ABPNG's capability to supervise subproject implementation.
Agricultural Credit and the Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea
32.       Financial Sector Overview.  PNG's financial sector is young and
underdeveloped with a clientele who are relatively new entrants to the cash
economy and the credit market. It operates within a physical environment
which is geographically fragmented giving rise to numerous isolated communi-
ties which are separated from one another by physical, linguistic and cultural
barriers. This natural and human diversity poses considerable problems for
administration in--general, and specifically for the provision of agricultural
credit and extension.
33.       The Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) is the country's central bank,
regulating the country's six commercial banks, 114 savings and loan societies
(only 39 of which are active), four finance companies and one merchant bank.
Except for the Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation all commercial banks are
subsidiaries of foreign banks. Government policy toward the commercial banks
has recently been geared to encourage more medium and long-term loans for
agro-based industry and to expand term lending in the agricultural sector.
Interest rates charged by commercial banks on agricultural loans range from
11.25Z to 14.25%, and 11% to 15.25Z on commercial and industrial loans.
34.       Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea.  The largest single lender for
agriculture in the country is the Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea (ABPNG)
which is the only financial institution lending to small rural farmers and
agricultural business groups. ASPNG, originally called the PNG Development
Bank, was established in 1965 as a multipurpose, wholly Government-owned
development finance institution. In February 1985, the Government renamed the
bank, directed ABPNG to orient its lending operations to agriculture, and
imposed a 20Z ceiling on the proportion of the loan portfolio to be devoted to
commercial and industrial projects.



- 10 -
35.       Organization and Staffing.  ABPNG is managed and controlled by a
Board of Directors consisting of a Managing and Deputy Managing Director, the
Secretary of the Department of Finance and nine members appointed by the
Minister of Finance from the Government and the private sector. ABPNG's head
office in Port Moresby is organized into four departments: Operations,
Technical, Accounting and Finance, and Administration and Personnel. In early
1984, ABPNG restructured its branch network into four regional offices which
supervise the six branches, three sub-branches and five representative
offices. The objectives of the reorganization were to streamline branch
operations and make them more field oriented. The results of the reorganiza-
tion have so far been encouraging. Field personnel are able to maintain
frontline contact with the borrowers while loan supervision and arrears
control have improved.
36.       ABPNG has a staff of 334 comprising 131 professionals (21 expatri-
ates) and 203 support staff. Almost half of the staff are in the head office.
ABPNG suffers from a shortage of qualified and trained staff, from difficul-
ties in attracting qualified staff and a high staff turnover rate. At the
same time, due to the presence of expatriate staff and in an effort to retain
its qualified personnel, the salary bill of ABPNG is higher than most agricul-
tural credit banks in other developing countries. To address these problems,
ABPNG began a long-term manpower and career development program including:
Ca) an evaluation of existing manpower resources and identification of needs;
(b) organization of training programs; (c) a localization program to decrease
reliance on expatriate staff; and (d) programs to meet future manpower
requirements. Progress of the program has been satisfactory, and both the
staff turnover rate and the number of expatriate officers have been declin-
ing. ABPNG is also improving staff training through in-house courses and
overseas programs. Its training efforts will, however, need to be expanded to
meet its growing needs.
37.       Lending and Investment Policies.  ABPNG's policies include the
following exposure limits which are judged prudent: (a) liabilities should
not be more than three times the bank's paid-up capital plus surplus reserves;
(b) total loans outstanding to a single enterprise should not exceed 25% of
bank equity; (c) equity investments in a single enterpriSe should not exceed
10% of bank equity; (d) total exposure in hire-purchase - and equipment
financing should not exceed equity; and (d) aggregate equity investments
should not exceed 15Z of bank equity.
38.       Loan and Investment Procedures.  With assistance under the Bank-
supported Second Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1149-PNG) significant
strides have been achieved in improving ABPNG's project appraisal, loan
processing and supervision standards. A comprehensive field manual has been
issued, with procedures for field reporting, project appraisal, inspection and
loan processing. In addition, technical manuals have been prepared to deter-
mine the agronomic feasibility of coffee or rubber development projects. For
5/ Loans for vehicles under which ABPNG retains title to the vehicles until
the loan is fully paid.



- 11 -
large agricultural loans (over K 65,000) and investment operations, the tech-
nical manuals are supplemented by appraisal criteria requiring a detailed
feasibility study on the technical, marketing, financial and economic aspects
of the project.
39.       Budgeting and Planning.  ABPNC's budgeting for loan and investment
operations is deficient and has led to severe cash flow constraints when loan
approvals and disbursements have not been planned in line with the availabil-
ity ot internally generated funds, budget funds from Government or external
loan sources. Allocations have tended to be ad hoc or based on historical
lending patterns rather than sectoral priorities. ABPNG has, however,
recruited an economist and begun to prepare a corporate plan. The proposed
project would reinforce ABPNG's efforts to strengthen its budgeting and
planning.
40.       Loan Portfolio and Arrears.  ABPNG's portfolio at December 31, 1984
comprised 8,658 loans amounting to K 49.7 million (before provisions for bad
debts). Agricultural loans comprised K 31.5 million of the total portfolio or
about 63% of loans outstanding. ABPNG is working to control its arrears
problems and improve collections through an arrears management program begun
in 1981, and the early identification of problem projects. Better procedures
for appraising subloans have recently been introduced, and the monitoring and
supervision of ongoing operations have been stepped up. ABPNG's debt write-
off policy is also being refined in order to delineate the timing, responsi-
bility and authority for writing-off loans. All these efforts have been
productive, resulting in a significant improvement in ABPNG's arrears situa-
tion in 1984. ABPNG's equity investments (K1.8 miLlion) have been limited to
companies established as promotional ventures or acquired from expatriates for
transfer to nationals. The overall equity and lending portfolio is sound. In
line with the Government's policy of reducing ABPNG's involvement in
commercial and industrial sectors, ABPNG has embarked on a five-year portfolio
divestment program to sell its holdings in these areas to new sponsors.
41.       Financial Position.  Operating results show a declining trend in
ABPNG's net income from K 21,000 in 1980 to a loss of K 627,000 in 1984.
Although interest and other income grew at an average annual rate of 12Z
during the last five years, it has not kept pace with increased expenses.
Total expenses as a percentage of the loan portfolio were 13.4% in 1980, 27%
in 1982 and 16.5Z in 1984. Salaries comprise the highest share of ABPNG's
expenses (40%), while borrowing expenses constitute 29%, and bad debts, 18%.
Administrative expenses are high in ABPNG because of the expatriate staff, the
number of branches needed to serve a large number of borrowers scattered
throughout the rural areas, and the high cost of travel to isolated commun-
ities. Due to a limited market, ABPNG's overhead costs are spread over a
smaller loan base. ABPNG's ratio of operating expenses to loan portfolio is,
hcwever, comparable to other financial institutions in PNG. ABPNG is making a
major effort to reduce personnel and operating costs through staff reductions,
branch reorganization, and the gradual replacement of expatriate staff by
local staff. However, these programs will take time and should be undertaken
without impairing the efficient operations of the bank.



- 12 -
42.       The debt-equity ratio of ABPNG has risen to 49:51 from much lower
levels, but this poses no problem since the Government has routinely increased
ABPNG's capital since mid-1982 to assist ABPNG in financing long-term
agricultural loans. ABPNG's current ratio of 3.1 is high because of advances
provided by the Government which allowed ABPNC to increase its current
assets. Owing to its large equity base, ABPNC has a satisfactory financial
position as measured against conventional indicators.
Issues in Agricultural Credit
43.       Interest Rates.  An important issue confronting agricultural credit
in PNG is the interest rate policy. Interest rates in the country are
primarily determined by market forces. However, in order to accelerate
agricultural production and increase smallholder incomes, the Government is
subsidizing the interest rates on ABPNC subloans to specified target groups
(charging 7% for smallholders, 5% for disadvantaged districts and 8% for tree
crop projects, except oil palm, during the development phase). The rates
charged the remaining borrowers range from 9.5% to 20X (paragraph 53), and are
positive given that the average inflation rate in PNG over the 1981-84 period
was 7Z and the projected long-term inflation rate is 5%. They are also
significantly higher than the savings deposit rate of 3-6Z. In addition to
subsidizing interest rates, the Government is providing ABPNG low cost funds
3%) for relending, as well as funds to cover its operating losses.
44.       Due to concerns about the effect of interest rate subsidies, the
Bank suspended processing of this project in November 1983, and reappraised
the project in February/March 1985, only after an intensive policy dialogue
with the Government. Agreements were reached with the Government and
confirmed during negotiations that:
(a) the subsidy payments to ABPNG would not exceed K 12 million during
the period January 1, 1986 to December 31, 1988;
(b) the level of subsidies and interest rates would be reviewed annually
with thA Bank, commencing not later than December 31, 1986, with a
view to identifying other incentives for stimulating smallholder
production, and reducing subsidies during the implementation period
of the project (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01-4.02); and
(c) the subsidies would be directed only to individual farmers or group
of farmers living at or below the estimated poverty level (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2, B.1).
Under these conditions, credit subsidies would be sharply focused on specific
target groups, explicitly provided and accounted for in the public budget, and
subject to ongoing efforts to assess whether alternative, more efficient,
instruments could be used in their place. The average annual cost of
subsidies to ABPNG is estimated to be about K 144,000-K 1.1 million for the
lower cost of funds and K 1.2-K 1.9 million to cover the bank's operating
losses. The interest rate subsidies to the target beneficiaries would cost
about K 16,000-K 194,000 p.a., since the subsidized loans would constitute
only 10% to 15% of the projected total loan disbursements of ABPNC over the



- 13 -
next five years. The total subsidies would be less than 0.5Z of the projected
national budget.
45.       Institutional Weaknesses.  Although ABPNG's performance has improved
significantly since 1983 (see paras. 35,36, and 38-40), ABPNG still faces
organizational problems which constrain its lending capability. These include
the absence of a Deputy Managing Director to assist management, shortage of
qualified and trained staff, inadequate planning and budgeting, high adminis-
trative costs, an inadequace management information system, and poor financial
performance.  This project has been prepared to alleviate these problems.  The
project would strengthen the institutional development of ABPNG through tech-
nical assistance, staff training, provision of adequate vehicles and data
processing equipment, and an Action Program and Financial Strategy. The
Action Program is designed to reduce ABPNG's costs, strengthen its financial
management and arrears control, improve ABPNG's planning, budgeting and
accounting, strengthen organization and management and improve the bank's
management information system and data collection. (See para. 61.)
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project was identified by the Government in May 1982
and prepared by the Government with Bank assistance. The project was
appraised in May 1983 and reappraised in February/March 1985. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C., from July 9-12, 1985. The PNG delegation was
led by Mr. Ian Morris, First Assistant Secretary, Department of Finance. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5635-PNG) dated September 3, 1985 is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
47.       The proposed project would continue Bank support to Government's
program of rehabilitating and developing the tree crop subsector begun under
the Second Agricultural Credit Project. The project also addresses Govern-
ment's development objectives of: (a) increasing and broadening agricultural
exports through investments in crops for which PNG has a comparative advan-
tage; (b) reducing food imports through modest investments in piggery and
poultry enterprises; and (c) improving the standard of living of subsistence
farm families, especially in disadvantaged areas. The project would also
strengthen ABPNG as a development finance institution able to perform its role
effectively as the main conduit for agricultural credit in the country. By
its involvement in the project, the Bank would contribute particularly to
development of the country's rural financial sector and to the institutional
strengthening of ABPNG which was begun under the previous project. The Bank
would also make a significant contribution to interest rate policy reform by
assuring a periodic review of government interest rate subsidies, with a view
to reducing these subsidies gradually over the project period.



- 14 -
Project Description
48.       The project would:  (a) finance a three-year slice of ABPNG's
agricultural lending and (b) strengthen ABPNG by providing data processing
facilities, vehicles, funds for staff training, fellowships and studies, as
well as technical assistance for improving management and financial
performance.
49.       The total subproject costs would amount to about US$23.7 million for
development of a projected 4,580 ha of cocoa, 4,800 ha of oil palm, new crops,
other agricultural activities including coffee rehabilitation and replacement
planting (not more than 1000 ha), investments in poultry and piggery enter-
prises, agro-processing facilities, and agricultural equipment and vehicles.
Since tree crop subprojects will require financing beyond the project period,
an assurance was obtained at negotiations that all investments begun under the
project would be completed using Government and/or ABPNG funds beyond the
termination of project funding (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d) and
draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b). An assurance was also obtained
that, two months prior to the start of ABPNG's fiscal year, ABPNG would submit
to the Bank for review and approval an annual program for lending to new crops
and other agricultural activities including the technical, economic and
financial justification for such lending (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.09).
50.       The project would finance a staff training and fellowship program to
train about 279 staff in loan administration, lending guidelines and
principles, accounting and budgeting, project appraisal and supervision,
training and management skills. The training component would be carried out
under a plan agreed with the Bank. Funds would be provided for vehicles to
support ABPNG's intensified supervision and expanded collection and arrears
management program, and for computer equipment and software to upgrade ABPNG's
data processing capability. The project would also finance about nine man-
years of consultant services to enable ABPNG to strengthen its overall lending
capability. A senior development banker would be engaged for three years to
fill the position of ABPNG's Deputy Managing Director, which is now vacant.
He would strengthen ABPNG management by assisting the Managing Director with
short- and long-term plans for reorganization, financial management and
control, the manpower development program and coordination of ABPNG's various
offices. The appointment of a suitably qualified individual as Deputy
Managing Director would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). A training specialist would be engaged for two
years to define manpower skill gaps, identify training needs, evaluate and
improve in-house training programs, upgrade the staff training capability of
existing ABPNC trainers, and assist in the implementation of the fellowship
program. A systems analyst/electronic data processing specialist would, over
a two and a half year period, develop and test computer software and train
ABPNG staff in use of the computer for use of the computer for accounting,
subloan monitoring, collection and arrears reporting and other operational
requirements. Finally, tree crop agronomists would be engaged for short-term
periods totalling one and a half years to prepare and/or update technical
guidelines and lending manuals on agricultural projects, prepare farm models
for agricultural projects, advise on agronomic aspects of loan approval and



- 15 -
supervision of the plantation management agencies engaged by the borrowers to
implement field development, and train ABPNG s.aff on these aspects. The
systems analyst and tree crop agronomists were engaged by ABPNG under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project and the extension of these services would
be supported under the proposed project. The projecL would also finance
studies to monitor and evaluate the project's impact on beneficiaries. ABPNG
incremental operational expenses incurred in administering the project are
also incLuded in project costs.
Project Cost
51.       Project costs would amount to US$31.3 million equivalent, including
taxes and duties of US$200,000 equivalent and foreign exchange of US$17.0 mil-
lion equivalent (55%). Costs are calculated in March 1985 prices updated to
July 1985. Since this project is essentially a line of credit to help finance
a program defined in financial terms, contingency allowances have been integ-
rated into the cost of individual subprojects and non-credit components. It
is expected that any cost changes would lead to an adjustment in the number of
subloans.
Financing
52.       Of the total project cost net of taxes and duties, the Bank would
contribute US$18.8 million or about 60Z; the Goverpment, US$5.5 million or
about 18%; ABPNG, US$4.2 million or about 13%; and the subborrowers
US$2.8 million or about 9%. The Bank loan would cover the full foreign
exchange requirement and US$1.8 million of local costs. Local cost financing
is justified in view of the local content of the anticipated subloans for
smallholder agricultural development and the high priority the Government
attaches to expanding t-lis development. The Government would be the Borrower
and would assume the foreign exchange and interest risks. Retroactive
financing of up to US$1.8 million would be made available to cover eligible
expenditures beginning March 1, 1985. This is required to sustain both the
lending momentum achieved under the Second Agricultural Credit Project and the
planting program already begun. Retroactive financing will also assure the
continuity of consultants engaged under the previous project.
53.       Relending Terms.  The Government would enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with ABPNG under which US$18.8 million of project funds would be
made available to ABPNG at 3% interest repayable in 16 years including seven
years of grace. These terms are in line with expected subloan repayments.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be agreed with the Bank, and its signing
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(a)). ABPNG would receive supplementary funds from the Government
amounting to US$2.1 million as a loan under the same terms as the Bank loan
and US$3.4 million in the form of equity. ABPNG would onlend the loan
proceeds to its subborrowers at the following standard rates: cocoa,
poultry/piggery, cocoa processing, new crops, other agriculture (9.5X); oil
palm (10.5%); agricultural transport (20%); and agricultural equipment
(18%). Repayment terms would be based on the technical/financial profile of
the field investments to be made. The actual borrowing costs for residents of
disadvantaged districts, smallholders, and tree crop projects during the



- 16 -
development phase (except oil palm) would be at lower rates of 52, 7% and 8%,
respectively, and the Government will pay ABPNG the difference between the
standard and subsidized rates.
Procurement
54.       The range of goods to be financed under the project for on-farm
investments is varied and would not be suitable for bulk procurement. As
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, borrowers would purchase plant-
ing materials, fertilizer and chemicals, building materials, machinery, tools
and equipment in accordance with their own choice, through normal commercial
channels by shopping with at least three suppliers. Competition for the
various inputs expected to be procured by individual borrowers would be keen
and prices competitive with world market prices. Land clearing and prepara-
tion, planting and upkeep (about US$3.1 million) would be carried out by the
beneficiaries, members of their clan, or hired labor. Planting materials
(US$1.6 million) would be acquired through local shopping arrangements from
local sources which have adequate supplies. Building materials, small machin-
ery, equipment and accessories (US$1.4 million) and fertilizer and chemicals
(US$0.8 million), which would be delivered to widely dispersed areas, would
continue to be imported and distributed by private dealers. International
competitive bidding (ICB) would not be feasible for the procurement of agri-
cultural transport (US$4.2 million) and agricultural equipment (US$5.4 mil-
lion) by the subborrowers because the size of individual investments would be
too small and bulking of contracts is not practicable due to their expected
diversity and wide dispersal both in location and time. Field management
(US$1.8 million) would be contracted by participating farmers to experienced
local firms on the basis of a preselection made by ABPNC. These arrangements
have proved satisfactory in the past. Forty-six four-wheel drive vehicles and
data processing equipment (US$0.5 million) would be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The contract of the systems analyst engaged
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project would be extended by 2.5 years
under the same terms of reference. The post for Deputy Managing Director has
been advertised and a suitably qualified individual is expected to be
appointed by December 31, 1985. Terms of reference of the tree crop agrono-
mists were prepared under the Second Agricultural Credit Project and would not
be changed under this project. Terms of reference for the training specialist
and the monitoring and evaluation studies would be prepared by ABPNG in
consultation with the Bank by December 31, 1985. Consultancy services would
be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
Disbursement
55.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of:
(a) 69X of subloans disbursed by ABPFNG; (b) 100% of the cost of consultants'
services, ABPNG staff training expenses and fellowships and studies; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 65Z of local expenditures for vehicles
and equipment. Disbursements will be fully documented except those against
subloans and staff training expenses which would be based on certified state-
ments of expenditure. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
ABPNG would submit all subloans exceeding K 120,000 to the Bank for prior



- 17 -
approval along with appraisal reports on the technical, marketing, financial
and economic feasibility of the subproject (draft Loan Agreement, Section
2.02(b)). Supporting documentation would be made available for review by
supervision missions. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30,
1989. The introduction of a special account was discussed during negotiations
but was not considered feasible by the Government delegation.
Accounting and Auditing
56.       "Profit center" accounting and budgeting would be established to
provide revenue, cost, and lending data by operations centers (branches or
head office), and data would become available on loans and subborrowers by
loan category, loan size, crop, area of development, etc. Computer program
improvements would be introduced to provide appropriate collection and arrears
reports. Revised accounting centers would be integrated with an improved
budget system to facilitate financial planning.
57.       Project accounts including those under statements of expenditure
would be maintained separately for individual project components in accordance
with sound accounting practices (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.01). An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that an annual audit of ABPNG would
be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank on behalf of the
Auditor General according to the Illustrative Form of Audit Report for
Development Finance Companies. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year and would contain opinions
on the findings and procedures used in preparing financial statements, the
quality of the portfolio, and the adequacy of provisions for bad and doubtful
debts (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.01(b)).
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
58.       Project monitoring and reporting requirements will be the same as
those followed under the Second Agricultural Credit Project. ABPNG would also
prepare a Project Completion Report to be submitted to the Bank-not later than
six months after the closing date of the loan.
Project Implementation
59.       ABPNG would be responsible for project implementation.  It would
channel funds to and supervise the subloans extended under the project, while
management services to clan blocks, plantations or individual borrowers would
be provided by the National Plantation Management Agency, private management
agencies, ABPNG staff, and central processors (for poultry and piggery).
Staff from the Department of Primary Industry would provide assistance on
technical aspects of the subprojects and land utilization studies prior to
ABPNG lending in new agricultural areas. ABPNC would also be responsible for
execution of the institutional strengthening component.
60.       Status of Preparation.  ABPNG has capable managers and key staff in
place who have carried out similar programs. The post of Deputy Managing
Director has been advertised and the recruitment of a suitably qualified
individual, a condition of loan effectiveness, is expected by December 31,



- 18 -
2985. The systems analyst is in place and the terms of reference for the tree
crop agronomists have been prepared. The terms of reference for the training
specialist and the monitoring and evaluation studies will be prepared by
ABPNG, in consultation with the Bank, by December 31, 1985. A plan has been
agreed with the Bank for carrying out the training component of the project.
A five-year vehicle and equipment procurement plan has been preparea by ABPNG
and bidding documents are under preparation for the first year requirement.
Eligible subloan approvals commenced March 1, 1985.
61.       Action Program and Financial Strategy.  In order to strengthen
ABPNG's capacity to implement the project and improve its profitability, an
agreement was reached at negotiations that ABPNG would undertake an agreed
Action Program and Financial Strategy (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.11). The most important components are: (a) completion of annual and five-
year corporate plans for submission to the Department of Finance and the Bank
by March 31, 1986 and preparation of annual budgets of approvals and expected
disbursements which would be consistent with available government budget
funds, external loans and internally generated funds; (b) the establishment of
'profit center' accounting by March 31, 1986 to facilitate financial planning;
(c) completion of an internal audit program for inspection of head office and
branches by January 31, 1986; and (d) improvements in computer programning and
management information systems to provide ABPNG managers with the information
required for sound decision-making.
62.       Pricing of Smallholder Oil Palm.  In the past, oil palm smallholders
in the Hoskins area were inadequately paid for their produce by New Britain
Palm Oil Development Ltd. (NBPOD), the cvapany which operates the nucleus
estate. Although prices have increased and smallholders are now adequately
compensated, the Government still seeks to ensure sufficient incentives for
oil palm smallholders operating in nucleus estate arrangements under the
project. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Government would
examine, on a quarterly basis, the monthly statements of cost coefficients
used in calculating FFB prices for smallholders and cause such coefficients to
be adjusted, if necessary, to ensure that the prices provide a sufficient
incentive for the smallholders to replant and harvest oil palm (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03).
63.       ABPNG Financial Performance with the Project.  A projection of
ABPNC's Profit and Loss Statement shows increasing losses up to 1987 and lower
losses in 1988-89. This is a result of inadequate interest rates, increased
operating and borrowing expenses, and provisions for bad debts and contingen-
cies that are large relative to total income. The increasing share of lower
yielding agricultural loans to the total loan portfolio as mandated by the
Government also contributes to accumulating losses. The ratio of income to
the average loan portfolio would range from 12.7% to 14.1%, but total expenses
as a proportion of loans would amount to 15.6-18%.
64.       Under the project, ABPNG would undertake a comprehensive Action
Program and Financial Strategy in order to address its deteriorating financial
performance (para. 41). The financial aspects of this plan include: (a) a
staff retrenchment program tc reduce staffing from the present 334 to 317 in
1989; (b) a continuing localization program to replace expatriates with PNG



- 19 -
nationals; (c) a portfolio divestment program; and (d) improved arrears
management and collections. An agreement was reached during negotiations that
ABPNG arrearages would not be more than 20% of total loans in repayment (draft
Project Agreement, Section 4.05). Moreover, the interest rate structure would
be reviewed annually by the Government with the Bank with a view to gradually
reduce subsidies and increase ABPNG's interest rates on agricultural loans.
The Government has also allocated funds to cover the operating losses of
ABPNG. Following these actions, ABPNG should be in better financial health in
1990.
65.       Cash flow estimates indicate that ABPNG will continue to be finan-
cially constrained due to: (a) loan disbursements exceeding repayments;
(b) increased operating expenditures; and (c) increased borrowing expenses.
In view of this constraint, the Government will have to make injections of
equity capital amounting to K 3.2 million and provide loans of about
K 2.0 million to ABPNG in addition to the loan proceeds from the Bank.
66.       Projected balance sheets indicate total assets wouLd increase from
K 60.3 million in 1985 to K 75.3 million in 1989. Correspondingly, total
long-term debt will rise from K 25.5 million to K 39.3 million. An agreement
was reached during negotiations that ABPNG would not exceed a debt-equity
ratio ceiling of 75:25 during the project period (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.03). This limit is prudent in view of the level of arrears, uncer-
tainty of future subloan repayment performance and expected provisions for bad
debt in 1986-89.
67.       Financial Rates of Return.  The average financial rates of return of
typical investments to be financed under the project are estimated at 30% for
cocoa and 45% for oil palm. Estimated pre-project income is less than K 1,200
per family. An analysis of financial costs, benefits and risks indicates that
the subprojects would be financially attractive to the beneficiaries. Incre-
mental net cash family incomes p.a. of US$2,898 (6 ha cocoa) and US$2,869
(4 ha oil palm) at maturity would represent significant increases over incomes
without the project.
Benefits and Economic Analysis
68.       The project would directly benefit 3,400 smallholder families, 55%
of which are considered poor (earning less than K 275 per capita p.a.). It
would provide full time employment for about 3,500 people, expand exports of
cocoa and oil palm and ensure a productive and sustainable use of underuti-
'-zed land resources. The total value (in constant 1985 prices) of project-
related exports would be about US$21.5 million annually at full development,
yielding revenues to the Government of about US$0.6 million annually from
taxes. About 60% of the project costs are directed to the poor and the share
of the poor in total benefits is estimated to be about 70%. The project would
also have the beneficial effect of strengthening ABPNC as a development
finance institution, increasing its lending capability, and improving the
planning, supervision and implementation of subprojects. The expansion of
ABPNG's lending volume would maximize the use of existing staff and facilities
and result in an improved financial condition of the bank in the long run.
The estimated average economic rates of return (ERR) for the various farm
models are 30X for cocoa, and 33Z for oil palm.



- 20 -
69.       Risks.  The primary risk is that ABPNG might not be able to imple-
ment the project properly, in view of ABPNG's organizational problems coupLed
with a borrowing clientele drawn from diverse cultural backgrounds who may be
entering the market-oriented economy for the first time. To reduce the like-
lihood and potential impact of this risk, the project stresses the institu-
tional development of ABPNC through an Action Program and Financial Strategy,
technical assistance, staff training and provision of adequate vehicLes and
equipment. More efficient performance by the management agencies, which would
be closely supervised by ABPEG, should ensure acceptable field development
quality, cost-effective operations, adequate attention to land ownership prob-
lems, and mobilization of the necessary amount of labor. As additional pro-
tection, the collection performance and arrears position of the bank would be
closely monitored. Taking the above safeguards into account, the project's
indicated risk is judged acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The Loan Agreement between the Independent State of Papua New Guinea
and the Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank and ABPNC and the report
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions
of effectiveness are (i) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Government and ABPNG (para. 53); and (ii) appoint-
ment by ABPNG of a Deputy Managing Director (para. 50). Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
72.       I recomuend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 5, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                             ANNEX I
.Page  1 of  6
iwolk      1970Lk *iuL             AU*6  lACmC            LAT. AlMICQ a cG
mu ct           . no
TDTL                              *461.7      41.7        461.7
NM P.IU                              3.7        4.A         4.l.                         
_m  cdm  (on)                           ..         ..        760.0             1011.1                   173.9
_ ainTm awnm
uxa         or O.L quvArum          37.0      114.0       240.0             36.B                       MA
imiA vmn amusorm
POIU.anUUINI-13 CT3        105)   193.0       U16.0      3300    /h             .
Una P03uLAI (3 OF D rzW              2.7        9.6        13.5    -          33:.                     67.7
3aMU=  IN TM  20o0 CML)                                   4*
nTAZ*31  nUUIAUOU (3M112)                                 9.0
Mu sq. M.                         *.2         3.2         6.9             36.3                       44.
PM  sq. M.   uI. IM              320.a      333.9       635.7             1391.2                     91.1
POMWATON AO3 US1II3  (2)
0-14 1u                         40.4        .2.0        42.               36.2                      36.3
15-6 13                          3.6         36.9        33.              3SJ.                       37.1
sa MAuen                           2.4        3.0         3.6               3.3                       4.2
POPULAIO G032 am*  CS)                                      2.3   /h
TOTAL                              1.4        2.2           *    -          2.3                       2.4
DUU61                             13.3       13.2         7.3               4.1                       3.6
co3  aIm  am  CPU 1o3)             44.0        41.3        35.0              30.1                      30.9
c l D*3r un  (M 1Ms)                23.2       16.1        14.0               9.                        e.0
@6M  35150C110  3AT3                 3.0        3.0         2.4                1.9                      2.0
FAMLY ruIN
A      5. A5AL    t. (TI.. ).
Cs OiF orMIa V_)                   ..          ..         5A0              3.                        43*.3
ur  or FM PRO. P   CAu
C1969-71-100)                      100.0      100.0        99.              124.4                      O9.6
Pu CAPIT  50111. Of
CaLOas (3 or CSqof  5U1)         71.0        76.0        84.0              115J                     113.2
PBI35 (0*3  P   DAt)              33.0       42.0        45.0              603                       ".4
or VNIM AZNA 4D AMMAE            17.0       20.0        20.0 A             14.1                     34.2
cUL (AO tS 1-4)   WM      I=        26.1       19.9        12.0               7.2                       4.*
LI   EMU. AT KM  (13AN)            40.4        46.4        33.3              40.6                       4J
DnPr m. 3am  (3 T05s)              163.0      133.0        37.0                .                       397
mm3ss TO mm 643 (DO)
70AL                               ..        13.J        16.0,             44.0                      633
LIMu                               ..        4.3         553.0              57.                      76.3
l                                  ..        10.0        10.0              37.1                      44.2
As T0 AX 0DISPOSAL
(I or swaom
ToL                                .          6.         14.0               50.1                      6.
035*1                              ..        42.0         6.0 L             S2J                      734
IZAX.                              ..        S3.0         3.0              44.7                      23.3
POOLAIW Pu  TMICIA              193".0    11630.0    13390.0              7731.7                    109.7
POPl. I, 303  ffOA                   .   2   1600.0       960.0 J2464A                                80.2
POP. Pu momu2M
TOTAL                            140.0 i    130.0       230.0 A           1112.1                    362.0
0333                               ..        30.0      100.0               S 631.4                 *22.0
lUAL                              ..        260.0      270.0             236.                     2716.7
3  PM 311AL                          ..         ..          ..               41.1                      27.5
Avg*5 SIM OF UI5LD
TOTAL                             3.1
mU                                 ..         ..          .                  ..
NIZAL                              ..         ..          .                  ..
AVSus. Or uuMOMsI
TOTAL                              0.7        ..
031*3..                               ..         .                   ..
SEAL                               ..         ..
pnCMrAM or UU.Ia5 V113 UZLc.
TOTAL                             30.0        ..
ORM..
NODAL,.                                       ..



- 22 -                                  ANNEX I
T AS L   3A                              Page  2  of  6
PAPUA MEg GUINEA      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPDA NEW CUINEA                    REFENCE GROUPS (iticTED AvERAGEs) /a
MOST                    (NOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MISDfLE INCOME         NIDDLE  NICOME
1960kb    197af-b pSIT!L.b         ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA 6 CAR
UaTI
ADJUSTED ZNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMKAK:   OTrAL                 32.0        52.0       65.0              100.7                    106.7
MALE                   59.0       63.0        73.0             104.4                    108.5
FEMALE                 7.0        39.0       53.0               97.2                    104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  1.0         8.0       13.0              47.8                     44.2
MALE                    2.0       11.0        17.0              50.6                     42.7
FEMALE                  1.0        4.0         8.0              44.8                     44.9
VOCATIONAL Et OF SECONDAIRY)       16.0        19.4       16.2              18.4                      13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RAT1O
PRZKARY                          35.0        30.0       32.0               30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                        18.0         ..        22.0              22.2                      16.7
coWsoTo
PASSEGERb CARSITiWUSAD POP          2.0         7.2        6.1 la           10.1                     46.0
RADIO RCEIVERSTOUSAND POP           ..          ..        67.1              172.9                    328.3
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           ..          .          ..               58.5                     112.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEReST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            ..          .          9.3              65.3                      81.1
CINEM  ANNUAL AlTERDANCE/CAPrTA     ..          ..         ..                3.4                      2.4
1 ORnE
TOTAL LANOR FORC (THOlS)         1058.0      1257.0     1550.0
PEALE (PERUCT)                   41.4        41.3       40.9               33.6                    23.6
AGRIWCLTUPE (PERCENT)            89.0        86.0       85  0  /h         52 2                      31.4
INmUSR  (PERCENT)                 4.3         5.8         7;7              17.9                     24.3
PARTZCIPATION RATE CPERCT)
TOTAL                            54.8        52.0       48.6               38.9                     33.5
KALE                             61.2        58.5       55.3               50.8                     51.3
FElALE                           47.7        44.9       41.0              26.8                      15.9
ECONON{C DEPENDENCI RATIO           0.8         0.9        1.0                1.1                      1.3
INUDI SENITI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCM
RECEIVED BT
RICHEST s oP OEOLDS               ..          ....
HIGELST 20: OF 6OUSUO1S           ..          ..         ..                48.0
LOVEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS           .          .          ..                6.4
LOUIST 40S OF HO.SEHOLDS                                                   15.5
ES2TMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCO1E
LEVEL (O#$ PER CArT
URDMI                             ..          ..       400.0/C                                   288.3
RURAL                             ..          ..       275.0              151.9                    185.3
ESTDIATED RELATVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAM                             ..          .          ..               177.9                   519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               164.7                   359.7
ESTILATED POP. B1OW ALSOLTS
POVETY INCOME LEEL (S)
UR8A                              .           .         10.0 /R23.5                                  .
RURAL                                                   75.0              37.8
..T 2VArLABIZ
.NOT APPLICABL
ffO0T E S
/a  The group aerages for each indicator arm popnLatiou-wigbtad ax1timatlc mean.  Cowera  of councrElo
_ano  tba LndIc-tora depauds on *vallabLItty of data and IA not niorm.
lb  Unle-o othOriaaO noted 'Data tfor 1960" refer to an yar  betw_e  1959 mad 1961; "Data for 1970" betw_n
1969 and 1971; and data for "Noat Rseent Eatimats" btween 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1980; /a 1978; /f 1964;  gL 17. /h  1984
JINE. 1985



- 23 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEDINMONS OF SOCAL INDICATOES
No  Although the data ar drawn ra soumroc denuraly jdged te mot uthariutive a  reliablIc it should alo be noted a tbhey my nt be interntionlly
comprmbk becmuse of Le lack of sandardid dienitionx and concepts used by different countrics in collcting the dat. The data a*re. netd  usefu to
dscribe orders ofmagnitude. indicate tendk and chracgeni cernin major diflfwenc betwe  countriet
The reference groups atm (1) the mane country group of the subjt country and (23 a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group or the subjet country (except for -High Incowe Oil Exporte group where iMieddl Inconje North Africa sad Middle Eat is choen beause or tronger
iociocitwsl allinities). In the reference group dat the d avages e population wigted arithmetik mrn for ch ndicsor and shown only when majority
of the ouetries in group has data for tht indic tor Since the coveg of cuntries among the indicator dcpnds on the availability ofdata an is not unilrorn,
caution must ec xercised in relating aveges or one indicator to another Thces avege are only umetl in compasing the walu clone indicator at a tine among
ihc contry and refereinr goupL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude Irth Rate (per thosusadI-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising !and area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Cme Death Rae (per thomasd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agriclaral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen prdens or to  Gras ReprodAeto. Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, cakulated by same conversion method as Werld     Faly PfAmahg-Acceprors, Ama) (showssnd-Annual nun-
Rank Atlas (1981483 basis); 1983 data.                          ber of aeceptors of birth-control devics under auspices ofrnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPrIA-Annual apparent                   family plnning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     FaUdfy Phsnmdn-fn (perc of  arre,d )-Thc peren-
petrolum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal er,    tapg of married women of child-bearing age who are pacticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  those husbands are practicing any form orcontraceptiotL Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are geneally women aged 15-49, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is mcasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups-
Totad Ptp.aikn. Mid-1Yew (the odsJ-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRllON
and 1983 data.
Ind ex of Food Proldctio Per Cqha  (1969-71 = IOOJ-Index of per
Urba  PopuIaiou (prer of otael)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exdude a*nal feed and sqedifor agriculture. Foo commodities
ability or data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       nclude primy oommodisies (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Prpuato Pwjecroio                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g coffee and tea are
Popudlaon Mi year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   exduded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pubes oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with informauon on   vegetabes, fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. liestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertlity rates, mortalty rates. and  livesock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 196145, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            PAe Ca,a. Supy ofGCao    (pecen up) rqu w s)-Comput-
Starior-y popdation-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude aninal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used ir
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements we
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, bodv weights
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  ageand sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                       waste at household kved 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Poulation Mom aentm-ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply ofProein (gram per dayf-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertilitv has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. evrn after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USID
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is neasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of tL- uliamate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year rL given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popdniai  D&xsiity                                              average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJin.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tanes) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capi Proteir Supply romr A tf ad hPre-Protein supply
Per sq km. agrindrural lAnd-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961 -65.
land only. 1960. i970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
R_patio Age Structr (percemrs-Children (0-14 years). work-      Cd (ages l-4) Deteh Rate (per thomend)-N umber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and ovcr) as percentage  chdildren aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a givcn year. For most developing countries data dcrivcd
RFbplantiou Growth Rate (perreanl-rotal-Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Populaoi Growth Rate (percen)-_rarhn--Annual growth rates       Life Expectanwy at Bh (years)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would livc if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-24 -                                    ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to atay the saie througbout its lire;  PpUrewlher Rtato - pimry, and seconAary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secndary levek  divided by numbers of
lmfi*w MtartJ Rte (per thassod)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corrsponding kvds.
before reaching one year of age per thouand live birth in a given
year. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUM7flON
Acs to Se *Ww (peeut of                        H1r1dM. Aid    Ph u _w   Cwt (per t*kusooi papiliti.)-Fhissenser cars com-
rd-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) with reasonbe   pria  motor c   seating les than ight perons; excludes ambul-
acs to sLfe water supply (indudes treated surface watsm or    anos, hearses and military vehices.
untrated but uncontmminated water such as that from protected  abdb RecIm   (er tho_         Itpin-All types of ivers
borehoks. springs and anitary wel) as percentaes of their rexa>c  for radio broadcasts to genral public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban ana a public fountain or sun dpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countnes and in yeas when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  rgstrto  of rdio st was in efect data for recent year may
as being within resonable access of that house. In nual areas  not be compable since most countries abolishe licening.
reasonable access would inply that the housewife or members of the
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRdas (p   mt-                   ceivsfrfor broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs                          to Fnal public per thousnd population; exdudes unlicesed TV
incen th Exe Dfa iys waer t of                                rcivers i countruies and in yeas when mgistration of TV sets ws
1d ruNt-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  in ect
exceta disposal as petrentages of their respective populadons.  W         CIcUhtE (pgr l oskaasmdIeI rt)-Shows the aver-
Excrt disposal may include the collction and disposal, with or  age circuiation of daily genal interet newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, or human exca nd waste-water by water-     periodical publication devoted prim y to recordig gnea news
borne systens or the use of pit privies and similar insJhlationL  It is consdred to be -daly" if it appears at least four times a weck.
Populaue per Physkiaw-Population divided by number of pnu>    CGum A _sual Attndance per Cpta pr Ye_-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at univernity vel.    number of tickets sold durig the year, including admissions to
Poplaiu per Nasuag Prsop.-Fbpulation divided by number of     drivein cinemas and mobile units.
practicng male and female graduate nurses, assstant nues,
practical nurscs and nursing auxiliaries.                     LBOR FORCE
Populabon per li,pid      ,     ardies,   w                   Toed Lilb  P rte (etkesadl)-Economrcally active pewns in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their reetve number of    cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, g0a-1 and   Pdi  students. etc., covering population of al ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centes Hospitals estabishmcnts  various counties are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at last one physician. Establishments prov-  k   (perceat)-Fernale labor brce as percentage of tota labor
iding principally custodial care a  not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include hbelth and mnedil centers not permanently stalfed  A_ieuwe frprcu -Labor formc i farming, forestry, hunting
by z physicin (but by a medical assistnt, urse, midwife, etc.)    and fishing as peontge of tot  labor fore; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited rane  data.
of medical facilities                                        hia_ry (percet)-Labor force in mining, construction manu-
Adssdm per iespisl Bed-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
uA idptM Rote (p_rcew)-.*  alk, dj        k     nipo
HOUSING                                                       or acivity rates are computed as total, male, and fiemle labor force
A-re  Sie of Heo tM (psa- per                      11e,l11t11M ,  as percentages of totaL male and female population or all aM
audrad-A household consists ofa group of individuals who sbhe  respectively 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and their mai meals. A boarder or  dger may or  partopati  rates rilectingage-sex sutru     of tpopulaon. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purpose.  lng time trend- A few esmates are from national sources
Aee Number of PAsr  per RoAoe_IJd  rban, nd yad-              Eceumic Depedey RIP-Ratio of population under IS. and
Averag  number of persons per room in all urban. and runl     65 and over to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelbngs, respectively. Dwelings exclude
non-permanent stuctrs  and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISMEBUsION
Peredg of Dielias with E teci'icy-4tt, atm . Jnd trd-        Page of Trd Dhparbk Icom (beth un cask m  kiuf)-
Conventional dwedling with electricity in lving quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentie groups of households ranked by total bouse-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwelings rspectdvdy,          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*4ssed   ovfi.w Raios                                        The followng estimates are very approxinate neasurs of poverty
Nary school - tota mak mid fem             totaL  r   an      le nd  k     and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of aD ages at the prmary lvd as percentages of  Estimated A slate Po ert lamer  Le ed (5 per cap re) d-_rba
respcive primary school-age populations. Whilc many countries  md rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income lvel
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 year, others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirenmnts is not affordable
ar reflected in the ratios given. For some counmtries with univrsal    fEtibared Rdmaw P 1rty luen Level (55 per capies)-_JAm
educatui, gross enroUment may aeced 100 peacent since some    end Fao-Rural relative poverty income lcvd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stndard primary-schol  aveage per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secony school - toral, mae and ferak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimed Plpetaa Beow Afsolae Povety Inens Leld (per-
Diary i0nsuion, provides Seneral vocakoai or teacher tranUMg  cawt-uorba  ad rad- Pecent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
once courses are generally exdcuded
Voain  EiAro&mn (perce  of sacody y)-Vocational institu-                Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, indusutia, or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projecions Depatment
indepedetly or as deparmnents of secondary institutions                               June 1985



- 25 -                           ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCE IN 1984                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
1980-69 1970-76 1975-84
US$ mln                 -   (constant prices) -
GNP at Market Prices          2,309.4    100.0           6.5/b    2.7/b    1.9/b
Gross Domestic Investment      581.3      25.2          19.2      5.6      3.0
Gross National Savings          307.7     13.3
Current Account Balance       -330.3    -14.3
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,017.0     44.0           9.9     18.1      2.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,290.7     55.9         16.5       2.7      1.9
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /c    Employment         Value Added per Worker
US$ mlin    Z      000    Z        US$   Z of National Average
Agriculture       659.4    32.1      996   87.6        774           39.9
Industry          699.0    34.1       27    2.4    25,141         1,295.3
Services          696.3    33.9      114   10.0     6,642           342.2
Total/Average   2,054.7   100.0   1,137  100.0      1.941           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K million                Z GDP
1984           1984        1976-78
Current Domestic Receipts               479.0           22.1          19.7
Current Expendituree                    633.0           29.2          32.2
Current Deficit                         154.0             7.1         12.4
Capital Expenditures                    107.0 /d         4.9           4.5
External Assistance (net)               228.0            10.5         13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar
year basis.
/b  Growth rates are calculated in line at end-ponts.
T_  At factor cost.  These figures are for 1981. More recent data not
available.
/d These include capital transfers to provincial governments and to public
enterprises.
not applicable
not available
October 1985



- 26 -                          ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
(Million K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasl Money                  571.7  553.1  554.7  567.8  649.6  750.3
Bank CLedit to Public Sector, net       35.0    8.1   43.4   71.1    4.9   -5.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net   229.0  280.0  321.6  454.6  412.5  501.1
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP       35.3   31.9   33.5   32.5   32.5   34.6
Consumer Price Index (1977 - 100)    111.9  125.5  135.6  143.0  154.3  165.8
Annual Percentage Change in:
Consumer Price Index                   5.8   12.1    8.0    5.5    7.8    7.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector         18.2   11.7   12.7    8.9   20.3   19.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                       MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-84)
1982     1983      1984                           US$ min      x
Exports of Goods, NFS          863.6    926.0  1,017.0  Coffee                       126.7   14.5
Imports Qf Goods, NFS        1 395.3  1,360.0  1,290.7  Cocoa                         58.6    6.7
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)   -531.7   -434.9   -273.7  Copra & Copra Products    62.1    7.1
Timber & Timber Products  71.1    8.1
Factor Services (net)          -93.4    -96.3   -263.4  Copper Concentrates          181.4   20.7
Transfers (net)                 138.2    160.7    168.0  Cold                        232.4   26.6
Balance on Current Account   -486.9   -370.5   -330.3  All other commodities    142.4   16.3
Private Capital (net)           378.3    312.9    247.5  Total                       874.7  100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)          101.7    152.3      16.8
Errors and Omissions /a        -32.6      14.4    115.4
Increase in Reserves           -40.7    109.1       28.0  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1983
uS$ min
Import of fuel and related
materials                     198.1    200.7    175.1  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   765.6
Nonguaranteed Private Debt       820.1
Total Outstanding & Disbursed 1,585.7
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 /b
z
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    11.0
1978-79                       1980                        Nonguaranteed Private Debt         18.3
US$1.00 - K 0.71              USS1.00 - K 0.67            Total Outstanding & Disbursed    29.3
K 1.00  - US$1.41             K 1.00  - US$1.49
1981                           1982                       IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF MARCH 31. 1985)
US$1.00 - K 0.67              US$1.00 - K 0.74                                           USS mln
K 1.00  = US$1.49             K 1.00 - US$1.36                                         IBRD    IDA
1983                          1984                        Outstanding & Disbursed    89.1   110.2
Undisbursed                100.3      3.2
US$1.00 - K 0.83              US$1.00 - K 0.89
K 1.00  - US$1.20             K 1.00 - US$1.12            Outstanding inc. undisb.  189.4   113.4
/a Including capital n.e.i
7_ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services.
October 1985



- 27 -                          ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNC
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits /a
(as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                             Amounts (US$ millions)
credit                                                               (less cancellations)
number      Year    Borrower    Purpose                        Bank      IDA        Undisbursed
Seven loans and nine credits fully disbursed              75.5       64.4            -
1333-PNG    1976    PUC           Agriculture                  12.0        -            0.55
841-PNG    1978    PNC           Rural Development              -       20.0           1.31
1934-PNG    1981    PNG           Primary Education            6.0         -            5.90
1087-PNG    1981    PNC           Primary Education             -        12.0/b         0.34/c
1149-PNG    1981    PNG           Second Agric. Credit          -        15.071         0.347-
2125-PNG    1982    PNG           Enga Provincial Dev.          6.0        -            4.61
1279-PUG    1983    PUG           Petroleum Tech. Assis.        -         3.0/e         1.18/c
2265-PUG    1983    PNG           Road Improvement            31.0         -           27.97
2276-PNG    1983    PNG           Agric. Support Serv.         14.1        -           13.49
2395-PNC    1984    PNG           Secondary Education         49.3         -           47.53
2475-PNG    1984    PNG           West Sepik Provincial         9.7        -             -
Total                                                   203.6      114.4         103.22
of which has been repaid                                 14.2        1.0
Total now outstanding                                   L89.4      113.4
Amount sold                 8.1                            0
Repaid                      8.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          189.4      113.4
Total undisbursed                                       100.05       3.17        103.22
B. Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   The scatus of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b   Credic amount is SDR 9.4 million (equivalent of US$12.0 million at time of
conmicment).
/c   Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of US$
commitment.
{d   Credic amount is SDR 12.3 million (equivalent of US$15.0 million at time of
commitment).
/e   Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).



- 28-                            ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW CUINEA
THIRD AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project                 One year
Project Preparation Agency:                       Agriculture Bank of Papua New
Cuinea with Bank assistance
First presentation of the project to the Bank:   May 21, 1982
Departure of ap;raisal mission:                   May 1983
Departure of post-appraisal mission:              February 1985
Date of negotiations:                             July 9, 1985
Planned date of effectiveness:                    December 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section II:: Special Conditions
Assurances were be obtained from Government on the following:
(a) the subsidy payments to ASPNC would not exceed K12 zillion during
the period January 1, 1986 to December 31, 1988; the level of
subsidies and interest rates would be reviewed annually with the
Bank commencing not later than December 31, 1986; and subsidies
would be directed at farmers living at or below the poverty level
(para. 44);
(b) agricultural investments begun under the project would be completed
using Covernment and/or ABPNC funds beyond the termination of
ploject funding (para. 49);
(c) two months prior to the start of ABPNC's fiscal year, ABPNC would
submit to the Bank for review and approval an annual program for
lending to new crops and other agricultural activities including the
technical, economic and financial justification for such lending
(para. 49);
(d) individual subloans above K 120,000 would be submitted to the Bank
for approval prior to ABPNC approval (para. 55);
(e) ASPNC would undertake an agreed Action Program and Financial
strategy (para. 61);
(f) Covernment would examine on a quarterly basis the monthly statements
of the cost coefficients used in calculating FFB prices for



- 29 -                            AN=El III
Page 2
smallholders and cause such coefficients to be adjusted, if
necessary to ensure that the prices provide sufficient incentive for
the smallholders to replant and harvest the oil palm (para. 62); and
(g) AIPNG-arrearages would not be more than 20Z of total Loans in
repayment and the debt-equity ratio ceiling would be 75:25
(paras. 64 and 66).
Conditions of effectiveness would be the appointment of a suitably qualified
individual as Deputy Managing Director (para. 50) and signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank by Government and ABPNG
(para. 53).
I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
i'



IBRD 17314P
_                                   PAPUA NEW GUINEA
M A N U S           -U  - LG'ma0                       I A I ,     AD  THIRD  AGRICULTURAL  CREDIT PROJECT
VInsrra  i  - :  ~  '-r4K 
I          /           I                 i~                                     jn sqW                       -               i,  =-
X ~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                     _  s , I  ia   * Jd__~E
I           =       &; -                 I         -________  - 
I    WESg aE                                                                                                                                    c  
Ai w < e                                                                                                                       16"I  -    n -     -   i_'
XS~     ~~ f !                   GwL ivo mu t  sS       '        '       |/                    35| P      . 
I  -          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vemo  m  ...1
e   i  \ v _ i -.J.-                                            -*>*....*!';, '*_: n. cS A B
i_4_h  /@                                                                                                                                         - S *i  - r^J  ~YB          
mo ..nj seas i>
MA  0  A NO0         .    WISP       W  ,.,?AiN                                                  a _ -l
-                                                                                                                                     tOS'  S  U  ShA i r.S__. i
cv                   .IGA4tk \                                                                                                I |st.we
9 u-,* *  t|^N.iiii \-_
2                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P44W WWaRI Ar I
rSDI R  ~ ~w/    }   |             1.            }       * e e /  | S @ o-i4,-.                           I
z  I                   MeAA104~~~~~~~~~~~~~                I'tt
_~~~~~~~~~ --- _                       #wte' -    '-RSE                                                                                -- - - - UYla
Nt~~~~ItX
kS                        I~~~~~~~~~~~I
PACIIIC                                                        .......m                                     IA
'U  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  N



