Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2014 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3060 CHA
Project Agreement
(Inner Mongolia Local Railway Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INNER MONGOLIA LOCAL RAILWAY CORPORATION
Dated September 14, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2014 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3060 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1989, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and INNER MONGOLIA LOCAL RAILWAY CORPORATION (IMLRC).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifty-eight million six hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,600,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that IMLRC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in
this Agreement; 
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that IMLRC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
(C)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, 
Inner Mongolia and IMLRC, the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively, will be made 
available to IMLRC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements; and
WHEREAS IMLRC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) and 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. IMLRC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, IMLRC 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. IMLRC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. IMLRC shall duly perform all its obligations under its Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, IMLRC 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving its Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) IMLRC shall, at the request of the Association or the Bank, 
exchange views with the Association or the Bank with regard to progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit 
and the Loan.
(b)
IMLRC shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by IMLRC 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. IMLRC shall carry out the resettlement under the Project in 
accordance with the plan agreed with the Association and the Bank.
Section 2.07. IMLRC shall carry out recruitment and training of its staff in 
Page  3
accordance with a plan agreed with the Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
IMLRC
Section 3.01. IMLRC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management, assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. IMLRC shall at all times operate and maintain its machinery, 
equipment and other property, including the facilities constructed under the Project, 
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. IMLRC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) IMLRC shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices: (i) its 
operations and financial condition; and (ii) the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
IMLRC shall:
 
(i)
have said records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of
income and of sources and application of funds), for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association and the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as 
well as the audit thereof and said 
records, as the 
Association and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) IMLRC shall take all necessary measures including the increase 
of its tariffs to ensure that the estimated net revenues of IMLRC shall be at least 
1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of IMLRC on all debt of IMLRC based 
on a reasonable fores cast of the revenues and expenditures of IMLRC, in respect of 
each fiscal year within three years from the commencement of the operation of railway 
system constructed under the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of IMLRC maturing by its 
terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Page  4
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification 
of its terms of 
payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including 
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by IMLRC 
not earlier
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which the 
Association, the Bank and IMLRC accept 
as reasonable and as to which the 
Association and the 
Bank have notified IMLRC of their acceptability, provided that 
no 
event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial 
condition or future operating results of 
IMLRC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective. 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and IMLRC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement
shall have terminated; or  
Page  5
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement or both of said 
Agreements terminate in accordance with their respective terms before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, 
as the case may be, shall promptly notify IMLRC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For IMLRC:
Inner Mongolia Local Railway Corporation
Dong Ku Street
Xin Cheng District
Hohhot
Nei Mongol Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Telex:
85013 IMAR PCN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
Page  6
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IMLRC, or by 
IMLRC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Director or such other person or persons as 
its Director shall designate in writing, and IMLRC shall furnish to the Association 
and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to IMLRC 
and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of IMLRC to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to IMLRC shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
INNER MONGOLIA LOCAL RAILWAY CORPORATION
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
