Page  1
March 24, 1992
Mr. Wang Bingqian,
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing
People's Republic of China
U.S.A;
Re:
Loan No. 3060/Credit No. 2014 - CHA (Inner Mongolia Local
Railway Project) 1 - increase of the Special Account
Dear Mr. Minister:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Inner Mongolia Local Railway Project) between 
the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated September 14, 1989, to the Development 
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the International Development Association 
(the Association), and to the Project Agreement among the Association, the Bank and 
the Inner Mongolia Local Railway Corporation (IMLRC), all of even date therewith. We 
refer also to Mr. Luo Qing's telex of March 5, 1992 requesting the Bank and the 
Association for an increase in the amount of the authorized allocation of the Special 
Account from $5.0 million to $8.0 million in order to ensure a continued flow of 
disbursements under the Project.
The Bank and the Association are pleased to inform you that, after due 
consideration, they have agreed to the above request. Therefore paragraph 1 (c) of 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows :
"(c) the term 'Authorized Allocation' means an amount equivalent to 
US$8,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the enclosed form of confirmation and by returning it to us for our records . This 
amendment will be effective as of the date hereof upon receipt of your confirmation in 
this regard.
Sincerely,
By /s/ David Pearce
Acting Director
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Luo Qing, 
Director, 
World Bank Department, MOF)
Authorized Representative
Dated: 22.4.1992
