Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2014 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Inner Mongolia Local Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 14, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2014 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) The Association and the Bank (as hereinafter defined) have received 
a letter from the Borrower dated November 10, 1988, in which the Borrower has 
confirmed its commitment to develop the coal mines in western Inner Mongolia (as 
hereinafter defined), and setting a time-table for the development of those coal 
fields (hereinafter called the Coal Development Plan);
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development
(the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) (the Loan);
(D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(E)
the Project will be carried out by Inner Mongolia Local Railway 
Page  2
Corporation (IMLRC) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to IMLRC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and IMLRC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3 02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02 Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and IMLRC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(d)
"Inner Mongolian means Nei Mongol Autonomous Region, a political 
subdivision of the Borrower;
(e)
"IMLRC" means the Inner Mongolia Local Railway Corporation, a state-owned 
enterprise, established and operating pursuant to its charter;
(f)
"Charter" means the Charter of IMLRC issued on July 26, 1988;
 
(g)
"MR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Railways or any successor thereto;
 
(h)
"Jitong Line" means the railway line to be constructed under Part A of 
the Project; and
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2 02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 58,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
Page  3
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2 06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1999, and ending December 1, 2023. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2008 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amount of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4 02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. IMLRC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause IMLRC to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of IMLRC therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IMLRC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend through Inner Mongolia the proceeds of the 
Credit and the proceeds of the Loan to IMLRC under subsidiary loan agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Inner Mongolia, and Inner Mongolia and IMLRC, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and the 
Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, and employment of consultants to assist in carrying out the Project, 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9 04, 9.05, 9 06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out pursuant 
to Section 2 03 of the Project Agreement by IMLRC.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MR to provide adequate investments, in a 
timely manner, to upgrade and expand the railway lines connecting with the Jitong 
Line, so as to enable the Jitong Line to handle the added level of freight traffic 
after its completion.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section,
and those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than
six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of 
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6 02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
An event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the Coal 
Development Plan or a
significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
IMLRC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that IMLRC will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(d)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of IMLRC to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution, disestablishment or suspension of operations of IMLRC.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
Page  6
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, Inner Mongolia and IMLRC;
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by IMLRC, 
and is legally binding upon IMLRC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower, Inner Mongolia and IMLRC and are legally binding upon the Borrower, 
Inner Mongolia and IMLRC in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on 
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.
The proceeds of the Credit and the Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and Loan Account, respectively, for amounts paid (or if the Association and the Bank 
shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower for equipment and materials to meet 100% 
of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory), in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement and the Loan Agreement.
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any Country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to provide low cost, reliable freight and 
passenger transportation, facilitating in particular, the transportation of coal and 
other products between western Inner Mongolia and northeastern China; (ii) to promote 
regional development through provision of low-cost energy and transportation; and 
(iii) to establish and strengthen a local railway corporation for managing what is 
expected to be the longest locally-managed railway in China.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification, 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
A.
Construction of about 943 kilometer single-track railway line, running from 
Jining in central Inner Mongolia, to Tongliao in the east, connecting at both ends 
with the national railway network.
B.
Acquisition and installation of materials and equipment.
 
Page  8
C.
Recruitment and training of staff to operate the railway.
 
D.
Resettlement of about 5,000 persons.
 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be Completed by December 31. 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Materials, estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than 
$20,000,000, may be procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable 
to the Association.
2.
Items or group of items, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $7,500,000 may 
be purchased directly from suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the  two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said para- graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  9
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, IMLRC shall employ consultants 
whose  qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been made out of the 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  10
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of the Loan, less the 
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association or the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the 
case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, or the Loan Agreement including the General 
Conditions applicable thereto.
