Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18151-IND
ID-PE 36049
PROJECT A]PPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 7, 1998
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Designated for Negotiations June 24, 1998)
Currency Unit = Rqpiah (Rp)
Rp 1 = US$0.0002
US$1.00 =Rp, 8,000
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bappeda I                      Provincial government's development planning agency
Bappeda II                     District government's development planning agency
Bappenas                       National development planning agency
BKB                            Bina Keluarga Balita or Parent-Child Program
BKKBN                          National Family Planning Coordinating Bqard
CBO                            Community Based Organizations
Dikdas                         Directorate for primary education, MOEC
Diklusepora                    Directorate-general for out-of-school education, youth and sports
Dinas Kesehatan                Province and District Health agencies
Dinas P dan K I                Provincial government's education agency
Dinas P dan K II               District government's education agency
Dinas PUK                      District government's public work's agency
ECD                            Early Child Development
IEC                            Information, Education and Communication
Kanwil (Depdikbud)             Provincial office, MOEC
Kandep Agama, Kandepag         District religious affairs agency, MORA
Kandep or Kanin Dikbud         District Education Agency, MOEC
LKMD                           Village development council
MOEC                           Ministrv of Education and Culture
MOH                            Ministry of Health
MOHA                           Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA                           Ministry of Religious Affairs
Pimpro                         Project Manager
Pimbagpro                      Sub ProjectsManager
Posyandu                      Integrated Health Service Delivery Post
SD                             Primary school, grades 1-6
TK                             Taman Kanak-Kanak or Kindergarten
WFP                            World Food Program
Vice President: Jean-Michel'Severino
Country Director: Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader: Rozany Deen



Indonesia
Early Child Development Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective.........................................2
B. Strategic Context ....................................................2
1. Sector-related GAS goal supported by the project.......................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy...........................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by i:he project and strategic choices ..........                                                    4
C. Project Description Summary.........................................5
1. Project components..............................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.............                                                        5
3. Benefits and target population.......................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................6
D. Project Rationale.....................................................8
1 . Project alternatives considered anid reasons for rejection................                                                       8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or
other development agencies........................................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in lproject design.........................9
4. Indications of Borrower commitrnent and ownership ....................I11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................I11
E. Summary Project Analyses ............................................ 12
1 . Economic....................................................... 12
2. Financial........................................................ 12
3. Technical ....................................................... 12
4. Institutional .....................................................   12
5. Social..........................................................   13
6. Environmental assessment .......................................... 13
7. Participatory approach ............................................. 13
F. Suistainability and Risks................................................14
1. Sustainability ..................................................                                                                14
2. Critical risks...................................................... 14
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................I..............15



G. Main Loan Conditions ...............................................................                                                           15
1. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................................                                                 15
2. Others ..........................................................                                                                    15
H. Readiness for Implementation ...............................................................                                                   16
I.  Compliance with  Bank  Policies ...............................................................                                               16
Annexes
1 Project Design Summary .17
2         Detailed  Project Description  ..........................................................    20
3         Estimated  Project Costs ..........................................................    28
4         Economic Analysis ..........................................................    29
5         Fiscal Analysis ..........................................................    44
6         Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements .......... ........  47
Table A.            Project Costs by  Procurement Arrangements .............                                  ...............    48
Table Al.    Consultant Selection  Arrangements ........................                                 ..................    50
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ..........  51
Table  C.           Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds .....................................................                      51
7         Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule  ..........................................................                                    62
8         Documents in  Project File  ..........................................................                                                  63
9         Statement of Loans and  Credits ...................                                  .......................................    65
10        Indonesia at a Glance  ..........................................................    67
Map No. IBRD 29613



I
Indonesia
Early Child Development Project
Project Appraiisal Document
East Asia and ]?acific Region
Education 'Sector Unit
Date: July 7, 1998                            Task Team Leader: Rozany Deen
Country Director: Dennis De Tray              Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Project ID: ID-PE-36049   Sector: Education    Program Objective Category: PA, ID
Lending Instrument: SIL                       Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data             [x] Loan    [] Credit           [  Guarantee   [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm):US$21.5 million
Proposed terms:                       [    Multicurrency    [x]   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 3        []   Standard Variable [x]   Fixed          [      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                  Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                               3.9                 0.1              4.0
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                    19.3                 2.2             21.5
IDA
Other (specify)
Total        23.2                  2.3            25.5
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999      2000      2001       2002     2003      2004
Annual   1.1         9.4        8.2       2.0      0.6        0.2
Cumulative    1.1      10.5       18.7       20.7    21.3       21.5
Project implementation period: 6 years; Expected effectiveness date: November, 1998; Expected closing date: 3/31/2005



2
A: Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objectives are to support the short and long-term early child development
(ECD) needs of poor children between the ages of 0-6 in selected provinces in Indonesia. The project
would ensure the provision of services to meet the health, nutrition and cognitive stimulation needs of
these young children. An immediate and short-term response to the present economic crisis is the
provision of emergency complementary food to protect 6-24 month old infants against the debilitating
effects of malnutrition, and its impact on their future cognitive, physical and social development. The
longer-term interventions will increase access, quality and utilization of ECD programs targeted at these
poor children. Special emphasis will be placed on early child education and improving their school
readiness skills, so they would benefit from GOI's strategies for improving the quality of basic education.
A project extemality is the provision of enhanced employment opportunities to poor households through
village based construction activities.
B: Strategic Context
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 1661-IND.   Date of latest CAS discussion: July 10, 1997
The project will contribute to four major CAS objectives: poverty reduction, efficient delivery of
basic services, participation in development planning and implementation and decentralization.
The most vulnerable groups in the current economic crisis are infants and young children from
poor families. The project, thus, supports an emergency feeding program targeted at infants from these
families, particularly in IDT villagesl or villages "left-behind". It also ensures the more efficient
delivery of two major ECD activities by: i) integrating the village health post (Posyandu) and parent-child
education (BKB)2 program; and ii) supporting kindergartens (TKs) with intensified health/nutrition
interventions, all focused on the same poor villages. The planning process for the project has been
bottom-up with substantial involvement of district staff in the preparation of proposals for funding, and
the districts would also play a major role in future implementation. Further, although institutional
capacity at all levels (central, provincial and district) will be strengthened, particular focus would be on
the district level, to ensure the effective and decentralized delivery of the above ECD services. The
project will cover 12 districts in 3 provinces - West Java, South Sulawesi and Bali.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The present economic crisis has resulted in diminishing purchasing power of households,
particularly those in the rural areas. One of the groups most affected by the loss of household income
would be infants, who would be deprived of essential nutrients as a result of the inability of the family to
purchase food. Although adults can recover from transitory losses in terms of body weight, the ravages
of malnutrition in a young infant are irreversible especially during the peak phase of their growth and
brain development. Malnutrition in young children is already a major health problem in Indonesia with
the percent of young children under five who suffer from Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM) estimated
' IDT or Inpres Desa Tertinggal is the terminology used for villages that conform to a poverty profile.
2 The Posyandu provides promotive and preventive health and nutrition interventions while the BKB is intended as a cognitive
development program directed to mothers of young children. The programs are community-based, and carried out by volunteer
cadres under the technical supervision of staff from the Ministry of Health (MOH) and National Family Planning Coordinating
Board (BKKBN).



3
at about 36.1%.3 - 40%4. Failure to protect this age group during the current crisis period, particularly
through short-term support, may result in irreparable damage to their future development.
In response to this concern, GOI has requested assistance from the donor community to provide
funding for a emergency food program that targets children between 6 -24 months. This has resulted in a
national program that is now supported by UN].CEF, the Asian Development Bank, the Government of
Japan and the World Food Program.
Much remains to be done for poor and disadvantaged children for the longer-term as well. Many
of the long-term issues were identified in a national study on ECD5 which assessed the growth and
development status of Indonesian children, but with special emphasis on early child education issues.
The study noted the following:
Access to ECD services is low, particularly for the cognitive stimulation or early child education
programs (BKB, TKs, day-care and play-groups). Consequently, there are growing disparities in school-
readiness of children along income-lines. Only 16% of the children in the study sample reported
attending any form ofpre-schoolprograms and only 6% of households reported using BKBs. The only
exception in the study was the Posyandus, where primary health care interventions and services are
provided free of charge. 89% of all households reported using Posyandus6. The study also indicated that
the enrollment gap between poor and non-poor- children is large, and that demand in the highest income
quartile for TKs is double that of demand in the lowest quartile.
Lack of facilities, equipment and literacy materials (picture books, toys, stories, writing materials
and paper). The latter were particularly scarce in the early child education facilities with few exceptions
(urban areas where there were expensive and i-ully equipped facilities). A rapid assessment of existing
TKs in selected project districts showed that 90% had only the very basic requirements, and needed
additional equipment and material. Traditional educational toys of the community and books in the local
language which would be better for many children are rare. Equipment and materials in the Posyandus in
the sample were not as scarce, but were also insufficient for the effective delivery of services.
Pre- and in-service training programs are inadequate for both teachers and cadres. The ECD
study found that many of the TK teachers required upgrading to a higher level of qualifications. The
study also found that inadequate training, discouragement, and boredom were evident in the Posyandu
and BKB programs. Other studies suggest high-drop out rates from the programs. For example, Satoto
(1992), found that 20-40% of BKB cadres dropped-out after the first year and another 10-30% were
inactive.
Lack of integrated ECD programs, although there exists a very strong relationship between
children's health and nutrition and their cognitive development. Using a number of health and nutrition
indicators (e.g. nutritional status measured by body weight, height and mid-arm circumference), the ECD
study established that children's scores on performance tests are significantly influenced by their health
and nutritional status.
Lack of policies, and management and institutional capacity for integrated ECD. Currently, there
exists multiple policies for health, nutrition and early child education that allows for tremendous overlap
of responsibilities among various agencies. It) addition, there is a also lack of necessary management and
3 National Health Household Survey, 1995, WHO/NCIS standard.
4 Average for the period 1990-96, World Bank 1996.
5 "Early Childhood Development Programs in Indonesia" Draft, July 1997.
6 However, it should be noted that estimates of immunization coverage, much of which is said to occur through the Posyandu, is
lower (60%) than the participation rates and child weighing activities at the Posyandu are not very effective.



4
institutional capacity for providing integrated ECD services. Although GOI has had considerable
experience in the health and nutrition sector, it has no previous experience in delivering ECD activities
that are closely coordinated and mutually reinforcing.
GOI has began to strengthen its approach to ECD beginning with the inclusion of a statement in
the GBHN (Basic Guidelines of State Policy), and a chapter for the next five year plan period - Repelita
VII (1998/99 to 2003/4) 7 supporting the development of an integrated policy framework for ECD. GOI's
more active support is anticipated to result in improvements, particularly greater coordination in the
provision of health, nutrition and early child education services, and further improvements in ECD
service delivery, including increased support for early child education. In line with Government's strategy
for poverty reduction many of the above improvements, particularly in the provision of ECD services,
would begin to be implemented in the IDT villages.
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project supports GOI's efforts to address several of the issues above, through:
Emergency Complementary Food as a short-term measure. To prevent child malnutrition and
mortality, the project would provide an industrially produced, micronutrient fortified complementary
(weaning) food through the Posyandu. The complementary feeding would ensure that adequate energy,
protein and supplemental nutrients are added to infants' diets, to ensure their growth and development,
after the initial six month period of exclusive breastfeeding. The program would be implemented in the
project districts for two years using targeting mechanisms such as the prevalence of underweight children
at Posyandu weighings. Maximum flexibility would be provided to expand coverage, if funding is
available, and it is estimated that between 249-346,000 infants could benefit from the program. Measures
have been proposed to prevent secondary markets, and detailed procedures to monitor inputs, processes
and outcomes have been developed by UNICEF, which would be further strengthened under the project.
Improved access to ECD services for poor children. Funding would be directed at districts with
especially high concentrations of IDT villages and low service coverage (both in urban and rural areas).
The project would support the construction and rehabilitation of facilities consisting of small multi-
purpose ECD centers and TKs. The major construction activity would be building about 230 TKs in the
three project provinces, and rehabilitating an additional 110 existing TKs. This expansion in coverage
would benefit at least 44% of pre-school age children in the project districts. Small multi-purpose ECD
centers would also be constructed to support the Posyandu/BKB activities.
Provision of equipment and literacy materials. Educational materials would be provided to
augment existing programs. This would include, inter alia, learning modules, teaching guides,
appropriate educational books and toys, and growth development and growth monitoring charts. All new
facilities built under the project will be fully equipped to ensure the delivery of quality ECD services.
Expansion and improved teacher and cadre training. The project specifically promotes the
development of improved training methods and curricula in existing programs. In addition, the project
promotes the development of enhanced pre- and in-service training; the latter using distance learning
methods as well as conventional ones. The project would support the upgrading of about 1255 existing
TK teachers to DII-TK. In addition, the project would support the training to DII-TK and hire up to 460
teachers, with three-year contracts, in order to ensure that the newly constructed TKs will have teaching
staff. Efforts are being made to rationalize and make more cost-effective the training for Posyandu and
BKB cadre by supporting the integration of activities. More effective training to improve technical skills
of BKB cadre, who have not received any training for at least 10 years would be provided.
7 This was a result of the recommendations from the national ECD study.



5
Support for integrated ECD programs. The Repelita VII policies under formulation support a more
holistic approach to ECD. The project will support interventions that are focused on early child education
and some health and nutrition activities as specified by the district proposals and based on a menu of
ECD activities. The districts will identify their priorities for ECD services and request funding for
programs that support that area. Efforts would be made to provide integrated services e.g., the contracting
of health workers for the provision of health services in kindergartens.
Focused policies, and enhanced management and institutional capacity for the convergence of
ECD services. To address the former, the project includes a policy framework component which
finances the assessment of current policies in the light of the new programs being introduced under the
project. With regard to the latter, there is a large institutional capacity building component in the project
to develop the capacity of the central, provincial and local governments in undertaking the project.
Emphasis is being placed on improving the planning, management, supervision, community consultation
and monitoring and evaluation of project progress.
Linkages between the short- and long-term issues. Although the feeding program is a short-term
measure, there are linkages between the two sets of issues. The infant food would be provided through
the Posyandu and it is expected that this would further increase Posyandu attendance, which is being
supported under the project. Further, nutrition education messages that are provided through the
Posyandu would reinforce the importance of improved feeding practices, as a long term sustainable
strategy. In addition, by preventing PEM, the infants' capacity for learning and their mental and cognitive
development will not be impaired, and they could benefit from future project support for early child
education interventions.
C: Project Description Summary
1.   Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category         Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
I(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
ECD Program Support        Investments               22.7      89        18.9      83.3
Policy
ECD Management Capacity  Institutional                2.8      11         2.6      92.8
Building                   Building
Total        25.5     100        21.5       84.4
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would encompass key policy and institutional development reforms. This would
include i) the development of an integrated policy framework for ECD; ii) the gradual decentralization
of the management and implementation of cornprehensive ECD programs and services to the districts;
and iii) the rationalization of existing ECD services, including the introduction of cost-effectiveness
measures.
3.   Benefits and target population:
Project Benefits
* Prevent the effects of malnutrition, resulting from the economic crisis, in infants 6-24 months



6
*  Increased enrollments in early child education programs, with consequent reduced late-entry, grade
repetition and drop-out from primary schools
*  Increased school readiness of children, which is broadly defined to include cognitive, motor and psycho-
social skills
*  Increased number of children attending Posyandus resulting in improved health status e.g. improved
immunization rates
*  Improved parenting and care-giver skills for child development
*  Enhanced management capacity of district and provincial government agencies to plan, implement and
monitor integrated ECD activities
The short- term interventions would largely be preventive. The longer- term ECD interventions would
lead to improved schooling efficiency through a long causal chain that links early child development and later
productivity in life which translates into higher economic benefits accrued to both households and the
government. ECD programs affect a child's early ability, which in turn affects later ability, educational and
occupational attainment. All of this affects adult productivity and, therefore, wages. There is a growing body
of evidence to support this link, for example the High/Scope Perry Schooling Study. Preliminary estimates for
Indonesia indicate internal rates of return of 15% (for a 30 year time horizon) for two years of kindergarten for
children of low income families.8
Target Population:
*  Infants 6-24 months old affected by the current economic problems
*  Other economically disadvantaged children between the ages 0 and 6 (largely from IDT villages)
•  Parents of economically disadvantaged children between the ages 0 and 6 (largely from IDT
villages)
* Community-based ECD workers in selected provinces
i Government officials and agencies involved in ECD
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: 6 years.
Geographical Coverage: The project will cover three provinces: South Sulawesi, West Java, and Bali,
and twelve districts in these provinces. The provinces were selected for the ECD study and, subsequently, the
project, to illustrate the variety of ECD experiences in Indonesia, and the districts predominantly on the basis
of the incidence of poverty, both rural and urban. The emergency food support would cover all twelve project
districts immediately. The other ECD activities would have a phased implementation approach. In the first
year, implementation will occur in two districts in each province based on district proposals. Gradually, as the
knowledge base on integrated ECD service delivery increases, implementation will be expanded to two
additional districts in the provinces.
Executing Agencies: DIKLUSEPORA in MOEC has been nominated by GOI as the lead agency.
However, given the need for interagency coordination, intersectoral teams and local government are essential
for project implementation. Initially it is expected that there will be a heavy emphasis placed on the role of the
center for technical guidance, because of the "newness" of the integrated approach to ECD in Indonesia. While
the main concepts, policies and regulations are in place, there remains a lack of implementation experience at
the provincial and district levels which requires adequate central guidance and technical assistance.
8This is based on the following assumptions: two years of kindergarten costs Rp.400,000; poor children have grade repetition rates twice
the average of the population as a whole; and the kindergarten program reduces grade repetition rates by 50% and decreases drop-out rates
by 20% for primary and junior secondary. It is also assumed that as a result of increased educational attainment, earnings increases by
40% of the average earnings of primary school graduates after age 18 (Barnett, W. S. draft chapter for the Indonesia ECD study, 1997).



7
The organizational structure (described below) for implementing this project has been determined by the
main agencies: MOEC, MOH, BKKBN, MOHA and MORA and the province and district governments. It is
being reflected in a joint Director-Generals' Decree (SKB).
Central level:
An ECD Central Steering Committee (CSC), chaired by BAPPENAS, and consisting of members from all
concerned agencies involved in ECD: MOEC (DIKLUSEPORA and DIKDAS), MOH, BKKBN, MOHA and
MORA and other stakeholders would continue to provide policy leadership and be the main advisory body for
the proposed ECD project. It will also be respon,sible for the future development of the national ECD Program.
It would formulate and revise national policies to be included in Repelita VIII, based on the findings and
lessons learnt from the project.
A Central Project Management Unit (CPMV) established at DIKLUSEPORA, headed by the Director of
Dikmas as a project coordinator, and consisting Df members from all concerned agencies involved in ECD,
including a project manager (Pimpro) and sub-piroject managers (Pimbagpros).The CPMU would be
responsible for coordinating the activities relating to the development of the policy framework and other central
level activities. It would also coordinate provincial activities which includes the district components and
consolidate them into the national annual ECD work plans. The Pimbagpro from DEPKES, who would be
responsible for the nutrition component, would report to the CPMU.
Provincial level:
At the provincial level, a Provincial ECD C'oordination Committee (PCC) would be chaired by the Head
of Bappeda, with similar intersectoral representation as the CSC above, including the Bappeda and Dinas
P&K (Level I) and Dinas Kesehatan (Level I). The PCC will consolidate the district proposals, and
coordinate them with the provincial activities and be responsible for the provincial plan to be submitted to the
CSC through the Director General DIKLUSEPORA.
A Provincial Project Management and Implementation Unit (PPMIU) would be established at the Kanwil
Depdikbud (MOEC). The PPMIU will be headed by a project manager, and would be supported by education,
planning, procurement and accounting services and staff of the provincial office. The unit would be
responsible for the provincial level activities. The unit would be supported by consultants and staff from the
project agencies and would: (i) provide assistance to the district in areas such as construction, IEC, training,
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) evaluate district performance against agreed criteria. The
unit will also carry out regular reviews at the district level, including reviews of procurement and disbursement.
District:
The Bupati/Walikota (head of district/ city) will be accountable for implementing the district's ECD
program, which would comprise the bulk of the ECD activities. At the district level, the Bupati will select an
inter-sectoral District ECD Coordination Committee (DCC), with similar intersectoral representation as the
CSC above, including the Bappeda and Dinas ]'&K (Level II). The DCC would be chaired by the Head of
Bappeda Tk. II. It would be responsible for the district proposal, including project planning, budgeting,
implementation, monitoring, and reporting at the district level.
Two Project Management and Implementation Units (PMIUs) will be established at the Dinas P dan K II,
and district health office (Dinas Kesehatan II) respectively. Each PMIU, headed by a Pimbagpro, will be
responsible for procurement, disbursements, and accounting for the activities assigned to the district agency
concerned. Funds for other local government offices will be provided as "tolok ukur" ( appropriated budget
allocations) as part of the DIP budget of Dinas P dan K 11.



8
Implementation Arrangements
Implementation of the emergency food support would be based on targeting mechanisms, procurement
processes to minimize transaction costs and detailed monitoring based on community surveillance systems.
Implementation of the other ECD activities would be based on: (i) Planning and Budgeting (six-year rolling
programs and annual work-plans) at all levels (district, province, center). The major activities
(Posyandu/BKB/TK) would be at the district level and would be coordinated by Bappeda II, among the
participating agencies. An integrated annual district work-plan, reflecting the priorities of the district and
incorporating the planned activities of each of the agencies, would be developed and submitted to the province
under the signature (responsibility and accountability) of the Bupati/Walikota. This would include: the
identification of district issues in ECD in comparison with national/provincial standards (e.g. drop-out and
repetition rates in grades I and 2 and attendance rates at BKBs and Posyandus); acceptable strategic district
proposals based on the menu of ECD activities provided, detailed funding requirements, and implementation
plans and schedules for the year. This would be incorporated with the provincial activities (including mainly
training, IEC and monitoring and evaluation) into the provincial proposal. The central level, would be largely
responsible for activities relating to the policy framework and quality aspects which would include : revisions
in training curricula; preparation of the national IEC strategy and programs; training of trainers; and designing
the monitoring and evaluation activities. They would also be responsible for the major impact evaluation study
for measuring project outcomes; (ii) Implementation would be undertaken at all levels by each agency, in
accordance with its responsibilities under the integrated annual work-plans. Funds would flow from national
and local sources directly to the agencies concerned; (iii) Monitoring and reporting will be coordinated by
Bappeda II, Bappeda I and DIKLUSEPORA.
A computer program and project manual to illustrate and formulate district based proposals has been
designed and was used to develop the initial district proposals. Geographical Information System (GIS) maps
will also be used to identify the target areas, sites for proposed facilities and for continuous monitoring of
implementation.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements [See Annex 6]
D: Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Centralized vs. decentralized approach. A centralized approach was initially considered given both
the limited GOI experience in a holistic approach to ECD, as well as the small numbers of early child
education programs. It was felt that the need for central guidance and technical assistance in the initial
stages of the development of the program, including national awareness campaigns, may have justified
such an approach. However, centrally directed programs have not been sufficiently responsive to local
needs and the need for community participation and involvement in ECD programs is vital. Thus, the
project supports a strong decentralized focus with a few key activities.
Early child education focus only. Given the low levels of understanding of the importance of
cognitive and psycho-social stimulation for a child's development, and the lack of access, utilization and
demand for such programs, a project alternative for consideration was a program only emphasizing early
child education such as the Initial Education Program in Mexico. This alternative was rejected because of
the importance of promoting a concept of ECD that incorporates health and nutrition interventions since
many issues still remain in the child survival programs. The inclusion of the emergency nutrition
component has also strengthened the rationale for the rejection of a single-focus approach . In addition,
such an approach would make it more difficult to promote integrated service delivery in the future.



9
Health and Nutrition focus only. This alternative was rejected given the substantial assistance the
health sector has received from the Bank and other donors over the years. Although many problems still
exist in providing adequate services and coverage for children in these areas, awareness, access
utilization and financial support is much higher for health and nutrition interventions than for early child
education programs.
Coverage for children 0-8 years. The ECD study sample covered children 0-8 years since the period
between ages 7-8, when a child enters primary school, is also considered as a challenging transition for a
child. However, it was decided to limit the support for ECD programs to children 0-6 years since, by law,
children are expected to begin primary school by age 7. Further, since the proposed ADB supported ECD
program provides for an "ECD enriched" curriculum for Grades 1 and 2 in primary schools, additional
Bank support in this area is not envisaged.
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590 Ratings)
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Issue                   Projeci              Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank Financed
Improving community health  Third Community Health and
and nutrition interventions in  Nutrition Project (Loan 3550-IND)  S               S
selected provinces
Targeted programs for poor   Water Supply and Sanitation for
villages for safe water supply  Low Income Communities            S                S
and sanitation             (Loan 3629-IND)
Decentralized programs for   Health III (Loan 3204-IND)           S                HS
improved health status
Quality assurance and health   Health IV (Loan 390.5-IND)         S                 S
financing
Reductions in prevalence of   Intensified Iodine Deficiency
iodine deficiency          Control Project (Loan 4125-IND)        S                 S
Decrease maternal mortality   Safe Motherhood Project             S                 S
(Loan 4207-IND)
Provision of quality inputs    Primary Education Quality
into primary schools       Improvement Projecl: (Loan 3448-       S                 S
IND)
Improving access to        Book and Reading Development
textbooks                  Project (Loan 3887-IND)                S                 S
Access to basic education  West Java Basic Education
and strengthen capacity    (Loan 4038 -IND)                      N/A                N/A
Other Development Agencies
In 1997, the ADB financed a Family Health and Nutrition Project.
UNICEF in 1987 initiated the parent-child program 13KB (Bina
Keluarge Balita).
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Note: The economic crisis and the consequent lack of counterpart funds for implementation may have an adverse
effect on the above ratings in the future.
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The key benefits of ECD are improved health and nutrition status; cognitive and psycho-social
development; higher enrollments and reduced repetition and drop-outs from primary schools. In
Indonesia, the experience to date has been predominantly in the areas of health and nutrition, as in many



10
other countries e.g. Kenya and India (Integrated Child Health). There is limited experience in early child
education. Thus, lessons learned for the project include those from the health sector (15 projects in total)
and other international experience (Colombia, Mexico, Turkey and Israel for example) that also provide
some clear lessons for project design.
Lesson from International Experience:
Improved health and nutrition status and cognitive development as a result of participating in ECD
programs. The former is evident from the Integrated Child Development Service program, a community-
based program in India which successfully reduced infant mortality, malnutrition, morbidity and school
repetition outcomes among 11.6 million children between the ages of 0-6 by providing an integrated
package of health and nutrition interventions (feeding, distribution of Vitamin A and growth monitoring)
(Tandon 1986, Hong 1989). The latter is illustrated in that children who participated in Colombia's Cali
project and Peru's Programa No Formal de Educacion Inicial scored higher, on average, on intellectual
aptitude tests than did non-participants.
The poor and disadvantaged are the main beneficiaries of interventions in ECD so they should be
targeted for the greatest impact. In Argentina,36% of rural children from low socio-economic
backgrounds repeated grades if they had preschool experience, compared to 77% for those without
(Myers 1995). In India's Haryana project, for instance, dropout rates did not change significantly for
children from the higher caste but fell a dramatic 46 percent for the lower caste (Chaturvedi et al 1987).
Early child education complemented by parental training programs improves the capacity of
parents and other child-care givers to provide a simulating environment at home and enhances the impact
of early child education programs. A study of the Turkish Early Enrichment Program indicates that of
three different models (educational day-care, custodial day-care and home-care groups) the largest
improvements in cognitive measures of school adjustment and achievements were found among children
who benefited from attending educational day-care and whose mother's had received training. Zuloaga
and Winkler (1982) show that parental involvement in a Peruvian preschool program for 4 and 5 year
olds strengthened the positive impact of early child education.
The Lessons from Bank experience:
Program flexibility and local specificity increases impact. Both GOI and the donor community
have found that imposing uniform standards in Indonesia has not been very successful. The diversity of
the Indonesian culture calls for more local or province specific interventions that appeal to different target
audiences and present them with messages that they can understand. Cultural diversity also implies
differences in parenting styles among various groups that need to be incorporated into project design.
Flexible project designs are particularly helpful for decentralization.
The need for demand and supply-side interventions for greater effectiveness. Lessons from other
Bank projects indicate that supply-side interventions alone do not suffice. The supply of infrastructure or
trained personal in themselves are insufficient to generate interest when introducing new ideas and
concepts into society. There is a proven need for demand interventions that help increase awareness and
interest among parents and other community members. In addition, special attention has to be given to
the communication skills of the trainers and their ability to effectively communicate with parents and
children in the village.
Strong local government management, planning and technical capabilities are key for
decentralization. A comprehensive program to strengthen the managerial, planning and implementation
capabilities of the decentralized agencies is key. As local government agencies at the district level



/
assume increased responsibilities in these areas, it is necessary that their capabilities are assessed and
needs are adequately realized during implementation or before.
Program design features that reflect lessons learned are as follows:
* program interventions in the project consists of supply-side interventions complemented by strong
demand-side interventions. Besides the nutrition component, which is very time specific, supply-side
interventions include activities such as training, ECD program enhancement at the district level (civil
works, the provision of educational toys, children's book and materials, and teacher and care-giver
recruitment) while on the demand-side activiities are focused on the development of a national and
local IEC campaigns.
* the project supports local governments so that they will take the lead in ECD program design and
implementation according to the needs in their district. In addition, the current structure of program
design allows and encourages local government to adapt a generic model (as specified in the menu of
activities) to local conditions.
* the menu of activities will include educational programs for children complemented by parental
classes (BKB).
e institutional capacity building at all levels is one of key components in the project. Activities will
focus on strengthening the capacity of the central government to provide adequate technical
assistance. Staff from the local governments will participate in training workshops that will enhance
their ability to manage, plan and design ECD programs. In addition, the project will also finance
workshops to be held annually for information-sharing of their implementation experiences among
districts.
4.   Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower's commitment and ownership is visible in that:
* GOI has already asked a number of donors including UNICEF, ADB and WFP for emergency
support to protect vulnerable groups from the effects of the crisis;
* GOI has already undertaken and completed a comprehensive study of ECD, supervised by
DIKLUSEPORA, examining several issues, namely: (a) the growth and developmental status of
children, with particular emphasis on early child education; (b) existing government policies
concerning ECD; and (c) public and private ECD programs currently available;
*  the study recommendations have been accepted as the basis for formulation of Repelita VII, policies
and agreed as the basis for the Bank's as well as other donor financed projects; and
* a menu of ECD activities for program development, proposal guidelines and appraisal criteria was
developed as part of project preparation and utilized for project preparation.
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project:
As part of a larger effort for the prevention of malnutrition among poor children during this crisis
period, Bank funds will augment GOI's ability to provide coverage to a larger constituency of needy
children. In addition, with a long history of Bank lending in the education, health and nutrition sector and
its credibility with BAPPENAS, MOEC, MOH, BKKBN and MOHA and MORA, the Bank is well
situated to carry on a dialogue to initiate the development of ECD in Indonesia. The Bank has
contributed to the development of this sector especially given its current involvement in the recent ECD
study financed under the Japanese Grant Fund. The main contributions include its ability to:
* incorporate lessons learned from other Bank projects in the education, health and nutrition sector and
other international experience;



12
*  draw upon a pool of technical expertise among Bank staff to provide GOI with advice to be
incorporated into project design so as to maximize the impact of the project;
*  provide GOI with the necessary technical assistance to assist with the formulation of policy, address
program design and implementation issues at the various administrative levels taking into
consideration the demand and supply side issues that need to be addressed; and
*  provide funding at a critical time.
It should be noted that UNICEF has also provided substantial support in the development of the
ECD project, particularly in helping formulate the rapid response nutrition component.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.   Economic (see Annex 4 for afull discussion):
[X] Cost Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analyses: The nutrition intervention, when compared to similar
components in other developing countries is cost-effective, and the project introduces several
construction alternatives that have the potential to result in savings ranging between Rp. 46 million to Rp.
79 million per unit built. The cost-benefit analysis focused on determining an internal rate of return for
the two year TK intervention and, even on conservative assumptions, estimated internal rates of return
range between 13 percent to 15 percent.
[X ] Other Analyses: Linkage to CAS and ESW, and demand for and supply of ECD services.
2.   Financial: (See Annex 5)
3.   Technical:
The technical interventions in child health, nutrition and early education that are to be supported
under the project are all activities that have been tried and tested in Indonesia. The child health and
nutrition programs, in particular, have made significant contributions to decreasing infant and child
mortality and morbidity, although the early child education programs have been less successful. Current
deficiencies in the latter interventions are largely attributable to a lack of adequate funding, but also lack
of technical expertise and capabilities. Technical innovations such as simplifying curriculum (BKB);
possibilities for greater integration of services (Posyandu/BKB), and cost-effectiveness measures
(rationalization of kindergarten designs) to overcome these deficiencies will be piloted under the project,
as well as training strategies developed to overcome skill gaps.
4.   Institutional:
a.     Executing agencies: Although this is a multi-sector, multi-agency (sector and regional
government) project, individual agencies such as MOEC, MOH and BKKBN have long experience with
implementing Bank projects. However, inter-agency cooperation and collaboration, which is key for the
provision of integrated ECD services, is weak. Additionally, the district level capacity for implementing
the major portion of the activities needs improvement. The project interventions for coordination (below),
training and technical assistance are designed to provide the needed inputs.
b.      Project management: An effective project management structure which balances
coordination with efficiency is essential. Coordination would be achieved through the establishment of
ECD Coordination Committees at each level, who will be responsible for the six-year rolling programs
and integrated annual work -plans and for continuous monitoring of project progress and outcomes.
Efficiency is to be achieved by establishing strong project management and implementation units, with
the key responsibility for overall implementation assigned to one agency (MOEC), with clearly defined
roles and budgets for the other agencies in the integrated annual work-plans.



13
5.    Social:
Poverty
Recent research in education in Indonesia. clearly shows that problems of grade repetition, late-
entry and drop-outs occur predominantly among the poor. Thus, the most significant factor influencing
schooling inefficiencies is poverty. In addition, health studies also indicate that health and nutritional
disparities exist between poor and non-poor children. A recent study has estimated that the prevalence of
malnutrition is 38% in children in rural areas as against 27% in urban areas in 1992 ( Saadah et al.,
1996). In addition, the national ECD study shows that currently the poor have limited access to most of
the existing ECD services, particularly those for early child education. Clearly the poor are the most
disadvantaged and programs that target this grou,p yield the highest benefits. During project preparation,
extensive consultations were carried out with the staff of all ministries involved to ensure that districts
with a high concentration of IDT villages would be chosen as project sites.
Gender
In general, parental education programs including the BKB program focused on the role of the
mother as the main caregiver neglecting the father's role in child development. Parental classes
developed under the project will encourage the participation of the father and other family members. The
focus on creating a nurturing family environment necessitates that the role of the father and all other care-
givers be actively integrated into the parental eclucation program. The needs of working mothers for
child-care especially those in poor urban areas will be considered under the project as a research
initiative.
6.   Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category: C    The project does not have any
significant environmental effects.
7.   Participatory approach:
At the time of identification, plans were made for a participatory process of consultation designed
to feed into program/project preparation. The prDcess involved consultation with beneficiaries,
communities and all levels of government, but with particular emphasis on district governments. The
district proposals, were predominantly "bottom-up", and involved continuous discussion and feedback
with the relevant district officials. Activities being supported such as the Posyandu/BKB are largely
community-based. A further phase of consultation with beneficiaries to present and promote the final
project and have them participate in its implementation is scheduled to take place at the project launch
workshops. During implementation, participatory elements also include the involvement of the local
development council (LKMD), who will be largely responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of project facilities.
a.    Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project would primarily benefit aboult 1.2 million children in the twelve districts in the three
project provinces. The special emergency support would be targeted to very young children in these
districts (estimated at about 249,000 out of the total), but also provide flexibility for wider coverage in the
provinces. The project would also benefit teachers, care-givers and parents of these children, who would
be provided with training and/or improved knowledge on a child's growth and development needs. The
officials of all concerned agencies would benefit from the capacity-building activities of the project.
Finally, the district and village would benefit through the employment and income generation activities
created by the project e.g. construction of ECD facilities.



14
b. Other key stakeholders:
Participatory Approach                Preparation           Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups         COL                     COL                COL
Intermediary NGOs            COL                    TBD                 TBD
Academic institutions         CON                     COL                COL
Local government           COL                     COL                COL
Other donors          COL/IS                 COL/IS              COL/IS
Collaboration (COL); Consultation (CON); Information Sharing (IS).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability:
Institutional Sustainability. Long-term sustainability is being assured by strengthening the ability
.of districts to effectively plan, design and implement integrated ECD programs, and by increasing
awareness among parents, child-care providers, policy-makers and local govemments of their
importance. This would be achieved through: i) the development of a sound policy framework for an
integrated approach to ECD; ii) a phased approach to the actual integration of services to allow for the
necessary attitudinal and behavioral changes and the accumulation of implementation experience; iii)
significant institutional strengthening at all levels; and iv) local government's commitment by assigning
them responsibility and accountability for the programs. Although the emergency food support is a short-
termn measure, it is hoped that as a result of both Bank and other donor support, improving
complementary feeding of infants would, in the future, be part of a multi-faceted long-term strategy to
reduce infection, improve caring practices and increase the effectiveness of PEM reduction in pre-school
children.
Financial Sustainability. Measures taken to ensure that local governments are able to finance
recurrent costs in the future are: i) the adoption of affordable and cost-effective programs; and ii)
increased budgetary allocations from all levels, with contributions from local budgetary resources
expected to increase over time. It is expected that the current economic crisis may have an immediate
impact on budget allocations and this is being minimized through a higher percentage of Bank cost-
sharing.
Organizational. Through integrated planning and coordinated implementation, the ECD project
would establish long-lasting working relationships among the district agencies involved in ECD. By
involving community development organizations in the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
ECD facilities, the project would create a sense of ownership.
2.    Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
PROJECT OUTPUTS TO DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Risk                Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
1. Design and scope of quality       M       All proposed improvements result from the findings of ECD
improvements inadequate or                    study. Phased district implementation and clear performance
inappropriate for ECD.                        indicators, provides for continuous review and evaluation.
2. Difficulties in changing attitudes  S      Intense national and local campaigns particularly for early
and behavior of parents.                     child education. As in family planning, increasing awareness
is a long-term program.
3. Lack of financial sustainability of  H    Proposals have been determined by resource availability.
programs due to budgetary shortfalls          Funding will be sought from all levels of government. The



15
or other causes.                                Bank's share of project cost-financing has also been increased.
PROJECT COMPONENTS TO
OUTPUTS
1. Delays in GOI's formulation and     L       ECD study has already provided inputs. BAPPENAS task
acceptance of policy framework.                 force has provided a statement for GBHN and a draft chapter
for Repelita VII has been completed.
2. Lack of clarification in roles and   L       A Director Generals' Decree, specifying institutional and
responsibilities amongst all levels of         implementation responsibilities of each participating agency
govemment and lack of decisions on              has been agreed by GOI. This will also deternine the flow-of-
funding flows following                         funds.
decentralization policies.
3. Inadequate capacity of district      S       A district self-evaluation tool was developed and used to help
governments to implement.                       plan and implement district proposals. Institutional
assessments were also undertaken at the district level. TA and
training is also being provided.
Overall Risk Rating         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
The main resistance could arise from the need for inter-agency coordination and attitudinal changes
required in integrating services for early child education, health and nutrition. Attempts to minimize the
fears, but also rationalize the services being provided would be done through the gradual and phased
development of district proposals, and also the awareness raising on the importance and need for the
integrated provision of ECD services.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions: Standard
2.    Other:
The main loan conditions are that the Borrower will:
I.    Maintain the ECD Steering Committee and a Central Project Management Unit at the central level,
and establish and thereafter maintain Coordination Committees and Project Management and
Implementation Units at provincial and district levels respectively;
2.   Carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Agreement and Implementation
,Guidelines;
3.    Review with the Bank annual ECD integrated work-plans for the project provinces and the center
by October 31 of each project year, and make such adjustments to the plans as discussed and agreed with
the Bank;



16
4.   Carry out the agreed annual teacher and cadre training, and management capacity development
programs, and employ contract teachers in accordance with conditions agreed with the Bank;
5.    Acquire land and select locations for the construction of TKs and other ECD facilities in
accordance with agreed criteria, including the Community Participation Manual;
6.   Enter into implementation arrangements for the construction or rehabilitation of TKs and other
ECD facilities with the relevant LKMD for the selected location under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank; and
7.   Employ the key consultants necessary for the project not later than April 1, 1999 except for the
assessment of the policy framework for integrated ECD who should be appointed not later than July 1,
2001; and
8.   Establish an adequate monitoring and evaluation of project inputs and outputs according to agreed
modalities and performance indicators.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are under preparation and will be ready for
the start of project implementation.
[x] The draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[x] The Specific Procurement notice for expressions of interest for the supply of the complementary
food has been issued.
[ ] The following items are lacking and discussed under loan conditions (Section G): NA
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task acLRozany Deen
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
[signature]
Country Manager/Direct    nn   e Tray



17
Annex 1
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Perfornance Indicators      Monitoring and Supervision        Critical Assumptions and
Risks
CAS OBJECTIVE                 NA
Enhancing human resources
development through
investment projects and
advice aimed at improving
the quality and efficiency of
education services.
................................................................   ..................................................................   .......................................................................  .........................................
PROJECT                                                                                       (Development Objectives to
DEVELOPMENT                                                                                   CAS objectives)
OBJECTIVES
Formulation and               Completed GBHN statement   Review Implementation
implementation of an          and Repelita VII chapter9      experience for the necessary
integrated ECD policy                                       future revisions of policies.
framework.
Improved quality, access      80 % utilization of            Baseline , Mid-term, Project-
and utilization of existing   functioning ECD facilities in   end -surveys.                   Risks
ECD programs targeted at    project villages by end of the
the poor.                     project (urban/rural).                                          I.The ECD program is
insufficient to reduce late
Preventive measures for       80% of children receiving      Baseline, Mid-term, Project-    entry, grade repetition and
malnutrition through          complementary feeding          end -surveys..MOH MIS            drop-out in primary school.
emergency feeding             under the Project have         special surveys.
improved the weight for their                                   2.Transfering responsibilities
age on KMS charts by                                           to local government has not
FY2000/01. (Baseline: Mid-  Baseline, Mid-term, Project-    resulted in improved
term: Project End)             end -surveys.                    efficiency in implementation.
Supplementary data from
Performance test scores. Pre    MOH.
and post-tests will be
administered to children      Baseline, Mid-term, Project-
entering early child education  end -surveys.
programs.'" By end of project  Tracer studies to be conducted
standardized achievement      throughout life of project.
test scores should have
increased significantly
60% improvement in the        Annual project review. Annual
participation rates of parents   district implementation plans.
and children in BKBs and
Posyandus (urban/rural) by
end of project
75% of target number of
9The GBHN statement and the draft chapter for Repelita VII were the direct results of the national ECD study e.g., it was
realized that a statement in the GBHN was essential, to get the overall policy framework, if an integrated approach to ECD is to
be adopted in Indonesia.
10 Tests would be specially conducted in the areas of language development (receptive and productive language) and cognition.
Tests developed for the ECD study by the Psychology Faculty of the University of Indonesia and IEA tests adapted to the
Indonesia context will be used.



18
teacher support clusters are
meeting on a regular basis by
the end of the project
Signing of at least 70% of
targeted annual contracts
with LKMD by the third year
of the project and 70% by
fourth year for the two
project phases
85% of fellowships awarded
by third year of the project
85% of ECD work plans
have been implemented
annually.
PROJECT OUTPUTS
Policy framework for ECD    ECD policies included in  * GBHN document
formulated.               GBHN and Repelita VII.     * Repelita VII document
Evaluation of policies for  * Repelita VIII draft and final
Repelita VIII.             document
Risks:
Improved training program    * Completion and adoption    * Annual Reviews of district
effective.                of curriculum for          plans and progress reports.  I .Design and scope of quality
Posyandu/BKB and teacher   * Training evaluation forms.    improvements inadequate or
training (in-service) in each    * Special surveys      inappropriate for ECD.
of the provinces
* # kindergarten teachers
trained
* # BKB and Posyandu
cadres trained
Effective provision of    * # of children's books
books, educational toys, and  published                                           2. Difficulties in changing
other materials.          * # of ECD programs fully                               attitudes of poor parents,
equipped with necessary                                 particularly in rural areas on
books, educational toys and                            the importance and need for
other materials                                         early child education.
IEC campaign developed    * TV and radio programs    * Annual Reviews of district    3. Lack of financial
and implemented at the    aired                      plans and progress reports.  sustainability of programs
national and local level.  * Dissemination of other  * Special Survey             due to budgetary shortfalls or
media messages                                          other causes, including
repercussions of current
economic and monetary
crisis.
ECD programs as requested   * # staffed and equipped  * Annual Reviews of district
in district proposals fully  ECD centers servicing   plans and progress reports.



19
costed and operational.       children in local commtnity    * Special surveys
* # of BKB sessions in each
district
. # of fully equipped and
staffed Posyandu sessions
held in each district
* % of ECD centers with
contract health worker
....... .......................................................   ..................................................................  .......................................................................  ........................................
ECD program management   * # of fellowships completed   * Annual Reviews of district
strengthened.                 . # of workshops held          plans and progress reports.
* # of research studies        * Management reports
completed
* improved inter-agency
coordination
* established monitoring and
evaluation system        _
Inputs/Resources                                                (Components to Outputs)
PROJECT
COMPONENTS                                                                                    Risks.
ECD Program Support           US$ 22.0 million (base cost)   Quarterly and Annual Progress   I.Delays in GOI's
Reports. Disbursement Reports.  formulation and acceptance
1. Policy Framework                                                                           of policy framework.
2. Quality Improvements                                                                       2.Lack of clarification in
roles and responsibilities
3. Demand Generation                                                                          amongst all levels of
government and lack of
4. Access                                                                                     decisions on funding flows
following decentralization
ECD Management Capacity   US$ 2.5 million (base cost)                                         policies.
Building
3.1nadequate local
1. ECD Management                                                                             government support.
2. Project Management                                                                         4.1nadequate capacity at the
district level to implement.
5.Lack of adequate inter-
agency coordination.



20
Annex 2
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Detailed Project Description
Introduction
The development objectives of the project are to ensure the provision of the short and long-term
early child development (ECD) needs of poor children between the ages of 0-6 in twelve districts in the
project provinces of West Java, South Sulawesi and Bali. Specifically the project would: (i) protect
children between the ages of six months and two years against the effects of malnutrition and enhance
such children's growth and development; and (ii) improve the access to and the quality and utilization of
the Government's ECD programs.
The immediate and short-term response to the present economic crisis is the provision of
emergency complementary food to protect children 6-24 months, against the debilitating effects of
malnutrition and its impact on their future cognitive, physical and social development of the child. The
longer-term interventions will increase access, quality and utilization of ECD programs targeted at the
poor. It will also retain gains from the past provision of ECD services and maintain the benefits for the
future. An externality is that the project would provide substantial employment to poor communities
through village-based construction activities using community participation procedures. The income
generated from such employment would help offset some income losses as a result of the effects of the
crisis.
Prior to the crisis, GOI had recognized that its policies for ECD are highly fragmented and
accepted the need for a policy framework that integrates the policies for child survival (health and
nutrition ) and cognitive and psycho-social development (early child education). GOI has formulated
measures for the GBHN (Basic Guidelines of State Policy) and a draft chapter for the next plan period
Repelita VII (1998/99-2003/4). The project supports the formulation and implementation of this policy
framework and, within this context, supports an emergency feeding program for two years and two ECD
activities: (1) integrating the health service delivery post (Posyandu) and parent-child program (BKB);
and (2) supporting kindergartens (TK) with health/nutrition interventions. Access for these services
would be improved through the provision of facilities and the necessary educational books, toys and
materials and operational support. Quality would be improved through curriculum reform and provision
of training. Utilization would be improved through media and other campaigns that would increase
awareness of the importance and need for ECD services.
The project is also designed to improve the institutional capacity at all levels (central, provincial
and district) to ensure the effective delivery of the above ECD services. Particular emphasis is placed on
strengthening the district level, where the bulk of the ECD activities will be implemented. The twelve
districts covered under the project are Pandeglang, Indramayu, Tangerang and Lebak (West Java),
Gowa, Bulukumba, Bone and Moros (South Sulawesi), and Buleleng, Karam Asam, Denpasar and
Klungklung (Bali).
The Package of ECD Services
ECD services will be provided in 12 districts in the three project provinces -- West Java, South
Sulawesi and Bali -- to children 0-6 years largely in IDT villages. The project supports two main ECD
services as follows:



21
1.   Posyandu (Integrated Health Service L)elivery post) and Bina Keluarga Balita (BKB)  (Non-
Formal parent-child program) target children 0-6 years
Posyandu - Child Survival Programs: The Posyandu provides basic preventive and promotive health
care and nutrition interventions to young children. The most important programs are the Expanded
Program of Immunization (EPI) which immunizes against tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid, diphtheria,
polio, and measles; the Diarrhoeal Disease Control program, which promotes and provides oral
rehydration therapy as a palliative treatment fDr diarrhea, and the growth monitoring and nutrition
education interventions which provides iron, iodine and vitamin A supplements to children (and mothers).
It is a monthly community event to which the mothers take their children, and where the services are
provided by health staff with the support of trained cadres (volunteers). Facilities used are highly varied,
and range from the home of the village head to the general community center.
Bina Keluarga Balita (BKB) - Child Cognitive and Psycho-Social Development: The non-formal parent-
child program is intended to provide training and promotion for parents in how to provide effective
cognitive development and psycho-social stimulation for their young children. It is particularly directed
to mothers of young children from lower income groups, so that they can prepare their children for
school. It is also implemented by community-based cadres, who are volunteers.
The Posyandu and BKB programs will be integrated, rationalized, and made more cost-effective
under the project since their target audience is the same, and very often the services are implemented by
the same cadres, but under different agencies and programs. The emergency feeding program will also
be implemented by the Posyandu.
2. Kindergartens (Taman Kanak -Kanak orK.
This provides Pre-School Education for children aged 4-6. There are several kinds of TKs; those
operated by the Government, the Community Based Organizations (CBO's), and those offered by Islamic
agencies. The education is based on a curriculum and teacher training programs designed to meet
children's physical and psychological needs and develop their mental potential. The TKs provides the
necessary inputs for improving the school readiness of the child or their subsequent entry into the primary
school (Sekolah Dasar- SD). Access to the Tk s will be expanded and their quality improved under the
project.
Outline of the Project
The project consists of two broad components: (i) ECD Program Support; and (ii) ECD Management
Capacity-Building.
Component 1: ECD Program Support (base cost of US$ 22.0 million)
The project supports the following:
1.   ECD policy framework. The pro ject is based on an ECD study supported by a Japan Grant.
A major conclusion was the need for an integrated policy framework for ECD to cater for the holistic
needs of the child (health, nutrition and early child education). A policy framework was designed,
including a menu of ECD activities that are crucial to the growth and developmental needs of children
(0-6 years). A statement was also formulated for the GBHN, and a draft chapter on ECD completed for
incorporation into the next national plan, Repelita VII. The project would provide support through



22
technical assistance, both national and international, for the continuous review and updating of the policy
framework, including incorporating infornation on the latest developments in the field of ECD and
reviewing the project lessons of experience.
2.   Quality Improvements.  Technical assistance has been provided to date to review all ECD
training programs and their curricula. The project would provide further technical assistance to complete:
(i) the simplification and rationalization of the BKB modules of program activities and field-test the
changes before they are implemented in the project districts; and (ii) the integrated training program for
the Posyandu and BKB cadre. This is expected to be completed in Year 1. In addition, the project would
support the development of in-service training programs for kindergarten teachers to be upgraded to DII-
TK, either through distance learning or more conventional face to face training programs. It would also
support the review and evaluation of the TK curriculum, including improved teacher/child interaction, as
well as the further evaluation and design of the current assessment tests for young children.
3.   Demand Generation. This activity would develop an Information Education and Communication
(IEC) program for supporting an integrated approach to ECD. It would support specific advocacy and
general IEC to promote optimum ECD related behavior e.g. greater involvement of parents in the overall
development of their children ( e.g. IEC campaign that encourages parents to talk and read to their
children). It would also support the development of IEC strategies, plans, messages and campaigns;
development production and distribution on IEC material at the central level and prototypes for
adaptation at the local level; conduct IEC campaigns and activities; and monitor and evaluate IEC
materials and activities.
4.   Access. This includes civil works and the provision of necessary educational materials, toys and
equipment and other operational support; and teacher and cadre recruitment and training.
The activities would be based on district proposals, developed by the staff of local governments
and including community participation. Funds for the project district proposals would be awarded on the
basis of detailed annual implementation plans, within an acceptable five year rolling proposal. In
addition, annual performance reviews on districts program progress would be conducted by the province
level.
Two main ECD services would be supported - (A) Posyandu/BKB; and (B) TKs. An emergency
nutrition component has been added as a response to the economic crisis and drought, with the
Posyandu as the focal point for the distribution of the complementary food for infants.
A.   Posyandu/BKB.
The Posyandu/BKB would be the first 'integrated institution" for achieving the goals of ECD,
since the target group of Posyandu and BKB are mothers of young children and informnation provided in
both programs are complementary. Both programs are based on community participation using trained
cadres.
The project would support the current defacto integration into a single service that provides
mothers and young children with appropriate health, nutrition and child development information and
services. It is expected that over time, the two services can be brought together nationally with the
integration of these activities reducing duplication and making the activities more cost-effective.
Integration will begin at the community level.
I.    Construction and Rehabilitation of ECD centers. The project provides about 340 common
facilities for the Posyandu/BKB. In some areas, this would be a simple new facility of about 46 m2



23
(estimated cost $4000 per facility) for which architectural designs have been provided, and in others it
would merely be an extension of an existing facility comprising about 14 m2 e.g. the Banjar in Bali. The
project also provides support for the rehabilitation of about 50 existing facilities.
2.    Equipment and Furniture. A limited amtount of furniture and equipment would be provided for
the above facilities including cupboards for the storage of educational toys and books (see below).
3.   Educational Materials and toys. The project would support, through the provision of learning
modules and teaching guides, the implementation of the curriculum revisions for the BKB program.
These include: (i) simplifying and revising the activities into three groups of children 0-1 year, 1-3 years
and 4-6 years and extension of the program to cover the children who do not go into TK; (ii) providing a
more simplified growth development chart (KKA),which would also be extended because currently there
is no instrument for the older children; and (iii) providing the APE or educational toys required for the
program. The project would also provide materials, including the provision of the growth monitoring
chart (KMS chart), for the Posyandu.
4.   Cadre training and support. The quality improvement activities require the provision of more
intensive training than currently provided to the cadre working in both Posyandu and BKB. Efforts
would be made to limit the cadre to 5 ( currently the minimum requirement is 1O for the BKB program
and 5 for the Posyandu) and every effort made to have common cadre for the integrated program. The
project would support improved training for up to 10 days in the year, and which could incorporate the
current health center training for the Posyandu cadre (currently nutrition education, KIA (mother/child
health), environment, dental, and community edlucation). The project would also support the increase in
BKB/Posyandu meeting to four times a month where feasible. Financing would also be provided to
increase the current involvement of the Bidan di desa (village mid-wife) and the proposed future
involvement of the TK teacher (below) in the BKB/Posyandu as motivators andfacilitators. Training
would be done using a cluster model and competencies for trainers, teachers and cadres are being
developed.
5.  Complementary Food for infants 6-24 nnonths old. The project would support complementary
food short-term emergency measure for about two project years. Funds would be provided for an
affordable, industrially produced, micronutrient fortified complementary food for infants between 6-
24 months of age and the provision of this food would protect one of the most vulnerable groups in
this current crisis against Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM). Preference would be given to the
infants in the IDT villages in the project districts, and also infants in other rural areas of the project
provinces if the funding is available. Maximum flexibility will be provided to enable as large a
number as possible of needy infants in the project provinces to be provided with the complementary
food.
The nutritional profile of the complimentary food would follow UNICEF/DEPKES
specifications. Cost estimates vary between a cost of Rp.4500 a month/per beneficiary including the
transportation and other costs (US$9/beneficiary/per year) to a unit cost of Rp. 15 ,000 per month/per
beneficiary excluding other costs (US$30/beneficiary/per year)." I
The targeting mechanism would follow UNICEF methodology which has been discussed and
agreed inter-sectorally. UNICEF uses sub-district level data from the Nutrition Directorate on the
prevalence of underweight children from the Posyandu weighings and this has been used to identify
target kecamatan. Their experience also indicates that implementing target criteria for differentiating
between households within a given village is unworkable and as a general rule of thumb, the average
At an exchange rate of Rp.60001$1.



24
village requirement is about IMT/month. Future refinements to the targeting mechanism would be
undertaken.
The food would be procured using ICB procedures. It will be procured by central DEPKES.
The food will be provided in packets and delivered directly by the supplier to the district warehouse
of Dinas Kesehatan TKII (province by-passed) on a monthly basis. From the warehouse it would go
to the health center (puskesmas) to be distributed at the Posyandu. This would greatly decrease the
transaction and distribution costs. This is the distribution mechanism being used by other donors for
similar food aid.
Procurement would be done on an annual basis, but the delivery only once a month. This
would ensure that large quantities of supplies can be avoided at any one time in a district and would
impede secondary markets since the food would be provided at greatly subsidized rates. The food
packages would also be clearly labeled "Tidak dijual bebas" (or "Not to be sold freely"), which
again would attempt to curtail the development of secondary markets. The package labeling may
indicate a nominal price (currently about Rp.500 for food provided by UNICEF), which would be
collected by the PKK who would distribute the food at the Posyandu. UNICEF experience is that
the complementary food is more valued by the recipients when they pay a low nominal price. It
could also contribute to Posyandu revitalization, which is being supported under the project.
U1NICEF has prepared detailed procedures to undertake the monitoring of the inputs,
processes and outcomes of this initiative in selected sub-districts. This would be used, but also
expanded to provide for an on-going monitoring system for the three years of project funding. In
particular, Technical Assistance will be provided to DEPKES to support a community based
surveillance system that will establish baseline measures of nutritional status in the 6-24 month
infant populations, with the surveillance repeated regularly throughout the three years of the project.
The methodology would include a careful selection of a representative sample of communities and,
in the selected communities, both quantitative and qualitative data would be collected to determine
coverage, cost and impact of the complementary food.
B.  Kindergartens (TKs)
The project would support the provision of Kindergartens (TKs) in the project districts. The
organization, curriculum, and training systems for the TKs are well established and currently about
40,000 TKs are in existence, catering to about 1.6 million children or 1 1% of the population of 4-6 year
olds.
I .    Construction and Rehabilitation of TKs. A number of alternative and cost-effective TK designs
for different areas and locations have been developed. The designs are based on the accommodation
provided in a standard 3 classroom primary school building, and the site provided for a standard desa or
village kindergarten was agreed with DIKDAS as being at least 1500m2. In urban situations, where land
of the correct size maybe unavailable, it may be necessary to build a 2 storey kindergarten and designs
have also been developed for this using a land area of 800 m2. About 230 new TKs, including adequate
water supply, will be constructed in the three provinces. All land required would be provided by the
local governments. This could be done through voluntary contributions, contributions against
compensation or purchased, particularly in the urban areas, at market prices. Rehabilitation of existing
facilities (about 110 TKs) from the private sector would also be undertaken. Criteria have been agreed
for such construction and rehabilitation, including the location of kindergartens using GIS maps. The
LKMD would be responsible for all work for the above facilities.



25
2. Equipment and Furniture. The project would provide furniture and equipment for the new and
rehabilitated TKs. With respect to the furniture the following activities will be undertaken- (a) existing
designs for classroom furniture will be reviewed and the size of furniture required in existing and future
kindergartens will be established through a simple anthropometric survey of kindergarten age children in
the three provinces; (b) standard designs for TK furniture will be prepared in a range of sizes to suit the
age groups of pupils in TKs; and (c) the furniture would be designed, if possible, for manufacture at the
village level.
3.   Educational materials and assessments. The project would provide educational books, toys and
equipment purchased on the basis of existing and agreed curriculum and material lists available at
MOEC. The materials are expected to be in small quantities and of great variety and would not be
expected to be procured in bulk. Tests for monitoring the students outcomes have already been developed
but these would be further evaluated during the life of the project.
4.   Contract teachers and training. To ensure that the TKs constructed under the project will have
teaching staff, the project would support the hiring of up to 460 teachers on three year contracts. The
contract would be for assignment to a specific TK and would be discontinued if the teacher leaves that
TK or does not meet contractual requirements. Although the contracted teachers would not expect to be
given assurance of permanent appointment to the civil service upon completion of their contract,
DIKDAS has indicated its intention of absorbing the teachers at the end of the contract period. All TKs
to be constructed under the project would have identified the potential teachers prior to construction of
facilities. Some would be recently graduated DII-TK teachers from the STIKIPs or the teacher training
centers. However, currently, the bulk of the TK teachers identified only have SPG-TK qualifications,
while others that may be available have SPGSD .DII. The former is less than the required minimum Dll-
TK qualification required for TK teachers, but while the latter is adequate, it is not training for TKs and,
consequently, some in-service training in TK subject matter would be required. The upgrading of TK
teachers to DII level would be supported either through the provision of fellowships, or in-service
training through face-to-face or distance education. Additionally, existing TK training systems, which are
based on the school cluster or Gugus system, will be supported under the project. The project would also
support the upgrading of about 1255 existing TK teachers to DII-TKI from the private sector facilities
being rehabilitated under the project.
5.   Integration of health and nutrition activities. The above in-service training programs include
training in health and nutrition subjects. These would be continued. Periodic visits from the Puskesmas
(health center) personnel to the TKs to examine the children about twice a month would also be funded
under the project.
Component 2: ECD Management Capacity 3uilding (base cost of US$ 2.5 million)
The project would support management capacity-building at the province, district and central
levels. The component will comprise two sub-components: ECD program management; and project
management.
A.   ECD management
The project would provide funding for the following:
1.    Capacity assessment and development (district, province and center). The balance assessments of
needs at the district, province and center to support the implementation of the project would be made,
following the methodology already developed and used in some districts in West Java and Bali. The
assessment would be the basis for annual training activities focused on acquisition of specialized
technical knowledge for key staff involved in the project (specializations already identified in the project
provinces include developmental psychology, early child education, education planning, statistics, and



26
community health, and nutrition) and project management (planning, budgeting, procurement, financial
control, monitoring). A management consultant would complete the institutional assessment and also
help link personnel with the appropriate training courses available locally and internationally. The project
would support the technical assistance, training fees, and local fellowships.
2.      Integrated annual planning and budgeting (district and province). Planning and budgeting
workshops would be conducted yearly following an agreed schedule for the annual technical and
budgetary plans. This would involve MOEC, MOH, BKKBN, and MOHA district offices, and other
concerned agencies, under the coordination of Bappeda I and II. The workshops would be residential for
3-5 days during which the strategies and activities necessary to meet the targets set and agreed in the five-
year program proposal would be discussed, annual progress monitored and future programs detailed. The
project would support technical assistance costs as well as transportation, accommodation, materials and
related costs incurred during the meetings.
3.   Impact evaluation. The project would finance a major impact evaluation study. This would be a
longitudinal study commencing in Year 1, and with data being collected continuously during the life of
the project. The study focus would be the long-term effects of pre-school education on primary
school outcomes through the establishment of experimental and control groups. Similarly, the impacts
and effectiveness of the PosyandulBKB interventions would also be studied as there would be a
traditional structure (untouched by the project) and an improved structure benefiting from the project.
The impact evaluation study, when completed, is expected to provide major inputs into the formulation of
future ECD policies. The project would support the necessary technical assistance, possibly a joint
venture between an international and national institutions, for the study.
4. Other Studies and special initiatives. Proposals for special initiatives to address specific ECD needs
in the different provinces and districts would be encouraged. Support would be available to test the
appropriateness of daycare centers and playgroups in poor areas. Other examples include training in
writing children's literature, or developing designs and prototypes for education toys appropriate to the
local context. Support for research to enable selected universities to develop as centers of excellence in
ECD is also included in the project.
B.  Project management
The project provides for operational support to all levels in the form of office equipment and supplies
(e.g. computers and fax machines), technical assistance and other operational support.
1. Monitoring, reporting, evaluation. An implementation monitoring system will be developed under the
project. It will consist of an accounting system to monitor the financial progress of the project as well as
a non-financial information system. The non-financial system will track the progress of the project based
on the key outputs and performance indicators provided in the project implementation plan.
Monitoring and evaluation activities will be carried out by designated staff at the province and district
Project Management Implementing Units (PMIUs). Funding will be provided for the monitoring activities
through allocated budgetary support. Staff assigned to monitoring tasks would receive a traveling
allowance and per-diem (fully financed by GOI) The reporting system would consist of two stages
occurring at the district and then the consolidation and verification stage at the province level. Specific
activities at the district level are regular on-site monitoring of rehabilitation, construction, teacher training
and management training activities, data collection and compilation, and regular preparation of
monitoring reports. Activities at the provincial level include regular monitoring visits by provincial staff
to districts to observe, among others, the progress of construction and teacher training activities and
reviewing of district-level work programs and budgets, aggregating district level reports to produce
provincial totals. The Balai Pengembangan Kegiatan (BKB) and Sanggar Kegiatan Belajar (SKB) would
be Technical Assistance Providers and support in monitoring and evaluation. The consolidation of all



27
reports would be done at the center (CPMU) at I)IKLUSEPORA.
Responsibilities of the various government agencies and officials involved in the monitoring,
reporting and evaluation process would be clearly identified in the SKB. The Impact Evaluation Study
will provide an independent assessment of project implementation and outcomes.
2. Technical audits. In addition to the monitoring and evaluation activities conducted within the project,
external consultants will also be hired to conduct independent audits in the areas of construction, quality
and management annually. The consultants will prepare detailed reports to be submitted to the Provincial
Project Coordination Unit and the Central Project Coordination Unit in Jakarta. This approach to project
monitoring has been used under other Bank projects and is found to be very effective. The Bank
supervision of the proposed project will be based on the findings of the Technical Audits, the annual
evaluation of performance at the national level and periodic visits to the provinces.



28
Annex 3
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Summary by Project Component
Local   Foreign   Total
-US$ million-----
1. ECD Program Support
Central Activities
Policy Framework, Quality and IEC                     0.5       0.1      0.6
Province/District Activities
Health/Nutrition & Parent-child program (Posyandu/BKB)  2        -       2.0
Early Child Education (Kindergarten)                  8.6       0.2      8.8
Complementary Food                                    9.5       1.1      10.6
Subtotal: ECD Program Support                     20.6       1.4     22.0
2. Management Capacity Building
Capacity Building
Improvement of central management capacity            0.1        -       0.1
Improvement of provincial management capacity         0.3       0.3      0.6
Improvement of district management capacity           0.5        -       0.5
Subtotal: Capacity Building                        0.9       0.3      1.2
Project management
Monitoring and Evaluation                             0.2        -       0.2
Impact Evaluation                                     0.1       0.5      0.6
Operational Support                                   0.5        -       0.5
Subtotal: Project Management                       0.8       0.5      1.3
Subtotal: Management Capacity Building             1.7       0.8      2.5
Total Baseline Costs                                     22.3      2.2      24.5
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                0.9      0.1       1.0
Total Project Costs                                      23.2      2.3      25.5



29
Annex 4
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Economic Analysis
I.   INTRODUCTION
In the last 12 months, the economic situation in Indonesia has changed dramatically. Indonesia is
currently faced with a severe economic crisis that has lead to increased poverty and economic stress
among households nationwide. Consequently, the situation for Indonesian children has deteriorated as
households face a considerable loss in purchasing power and are unable to afford many of the basic
necessities. For example, between August 1997 and February 1998, the price of rice increased by 50
percent resulting in the reduction the income of the bottom 30 percent of the population by 12.5 percent
(World Bank draft, 1998). As household purchasing power decreases, children face the threat of
malnutrition.
Investments in early child development in Indonesia have existed since the 1970s. Programs such
as the village health post (Posyandu), and parental education (BKB) have long existed, however, GOI
continuously faces the challenge of effective service delivery. There are no new programs that have been
developed under the project The focus is on rationalizing and strengthening existing programs to provide
improved services. The only new element in the project is the introduction of an emergency food
supplementation intervention. Within this context, the two main themes of the economic analysis are to
(i) provide "economic justification" of interventions or activities that have been undertaken by the
project; and (ii) rationalize the nutrition intervention in terms of timing, targeting and cost-effectiveness.
II.   CURRENT SITUATION AND ISSUES
The longer-term priorities of ECD in Indonesia remain the reduction of high grade repetition and
drop-out especially at the primary level. These cannot be neglected despite the short-term crisis.
However, because Indonesia is currently experiencing a severe economic crisis, the threat of child
malnutrition is an urgent priority demanding immediate action. In addition, the intervention has to be
well targeted to ensure that the most needy receive treatment in a timely manner.
How serious is the problem of malnutrition? Indonesia's child malnutrition rate has always
been relatively high. Even before the crisis, malnutrition was averaging about 40 percent for the period
1990-96 (World Bank 1996) or 35 percent for 1992 using SUSENAS data (Saadah et al., 1996). This is
relatively high in comparison to other developing countries. In total an estimated 9.3 million children
between the age 0 and 5 were malnourished in 1995. During the period 1990-1996, 40 percent of
Indonesian children under 5 years of age were malnourished while approximately 16 percent of Chinese,
7 percent of Brazilian and 13 percent of Thai children were malnourished (See Graph 1).
Who are at risk? The most vulnerable group are poor children in rural areas between the ages of
6-24 months. This is evident from the body of literature that current exists in Indonesia. Elfindri (1996)
Saadah et al., (1996), and Frankenberg, (1995) show that:
*  Malnutrition increases significantly after 6 months of age. After the first 12 months, malnutrition
increased to as much as 59 percent for rural boys and 44 for rural girls in 1989 (Elfridi,1996). Data
from 1992 show similar results that child malnutrition increases fourfold after the first 5 months
(Saadah et al., 1996).
*  Wealth Effect is strong. Both descriptive and multivariate analysis show that the wealth effect on
child malnutrition in Indonesia is strong. In 1992, 42 percent of children bom into families in the
lowest quintile were malnourished, this was twice the percentage of children in the highest quintile



30
where 21 percent were malnourished (Saadah et al., 1996). Similarly, Frankenberg (1995) also finds
a positive wealth effect in her analysis"2.
40                        Olndonesia  EChina
N  35                      | EBrazil      OThailand
5 30
c' 25-
s 20
10 
25 
0
Graph 1: Comparison of Malnutrition
Source: World Bank, 1996.
Urban/Rural disparities are large. Rural children are more likely to suffer from malnutrition.
Data from 1989 show that 33 percent of urban female children suffer from malnutrition in
comparison to 42 percent of rural female children. For male children, the differences are similar, 43
percent of urban in comparison to 56 percent of rural male children were malnourished (Elfindri,
1996).
Why Is Immediate Action Essential? Immediate action is necessary because the long-term
effects of malnutrition on child development and later life productivity are severe. Malnourished children
not only suffer lifetime disabilities and weakened immune systems, but they also lack the ability for
learning. The Carnegie Task Force Meeting on the Needs of Young Children in 1994 found that: brain
development before age one is more rapid and extensive than was previously realized and although cell
formation is virtually complete before birth, brain maturation continues after birth; and brain
development is more vulnerable to environmental influence than was suspected. Inadequate nutrition
before birth and in the first years of life can seriously interfere with brain development and lead to such
neurological and behavioral disorders as learning disabilities and mental retardation; and the influence of
early environment on brain development is long lasting (Young, 1996). (Note: For cost-effectiveness
analysis please see Section IV)
Long-term early child development problems. An analysis of the education indicators show that
at the primary level both grade repetition and drop-out are problematic. The problem of repetition is
especially acute in the first and second grade where repetition is as high as 14 and 9 percent respectively
(See Table below). Translated into absolute numbers, this implies a total of about 600,000 grade one
repeaters and 400,000 grade two repeaters per year. In total about 1.8 million children repeat a grade
every year at the primary level.
Why is school repetition in primary school high? Evidence from Indonesia suggests that
household expenditure (the wealth factor) and the share of over-aged new entrants are both significant
predictors of the repetition rate in primary school (Boediono and Dhanani, 1996). Poorer children tend to
have lower school readiness skills. This is primarily due to a combination of factors such as the lack of
any cognitive stimulation and psycho-social skills combined with poor health and nutrition. With low
school readiness skills, children experience difficulties when transitioning into primary school. The
12 Frankenberg finds a significant positive effect of wealth on malnutrition for those households that are above the median.



31
second effect is late-starting. It is shown that children who enter school late are more likely to repeat a
grade than those who do not.
Table I :Repetition rate by grade for the school year 1995-96
Indicators/Grades     I          II         III        IV          V          VI
Repetition rate (     13.66      8.92       7.60        5.71       4.03       0.54
percent)
Number of repeaters   667,239    412,528    343,762    246,632    165,074    20,073
(Ministry of Education and Culture, 1997)
The other problem that persists in Indonesia is that of drop-out. Over the past decade, the drop-out
rate at the primary level has remained at about I million children who have consistently dropped-out of
the school system each year. Despite increased investments in primary education the drop-out rate has
not fallen. Why is this? A study examining the determinants of drop-out and repetition indicates that
repetition is the most important predictor of the drop-out rate (Boediono and Dhanani, 1996). School
repetition and drop-out have been found to be highly inter-correlated, therefore a reduction in repetition
would reduce school drop-out. Thus, combining the above finding with research from other developing
countries that suggest that early child development interventions help reduce repetition, an ECD project
in Indonesia would be necessary to reduce both grade repetition and school drop-out.
Economic Cost of Repetition and Drop-out. The economic costs of drop-out and repetition in
Indonesia are substantial. The budget impi[ications of wastage per year amounted to about US$250
million in 1995/96 (Boediono and Dhanani, 1996). This does not include the private cost to households
for school expenditure. The wastage per year to Indonesian household is estimated at US$139 per child,
thus about US$9 million is lost each year due to drop-out and repetition. In total US$259 million is lost
due to repetition and drop-out.
III. SERVICE DELIVERY
At present, there are several programs that provide Indonesians with the basic ECD services.
These include for Early Child Education: kindergartens, play-groups and to a limited degree day-care
centers; for parental education the BKB program; and for health/nutrition the posyandu, puskesmas and
puskesmas pembantu, and public hospitals.
Of these programs, the project concentrates on the use of the posyandus, BKBs and kindergartens
as the primary sources of ECD service delivery at the village level. Thus, as opposed to developing new
mechanisms (which is less cost-effective due to the added start-up cost), the project focuses on
strengthening existing mechanisms to increase efficiency and the quality of service delivery. The
question is how? How can these programs be improved so as to delivery services to the poor of
Indonesia? To effectively address this question, it is necessary to understand several elements of the
service delivery mechanism namely: Are the programs reaching the poor or is there a problem of
targeting? What are the other problems that need to be addressed?
A.   Posyandu
The Posyandu program is a voluntary program run at the village level by mothers for other
mothers. It is village-based where mothers; bring their children once a month for specific health and
nutrition interventions. There are 5 main functions are: weighing and growth monitoring, nutrition
education, immunization, family planning, diarrheal disease control through ORT and maternal care. The
meetings are facilitated by nurses from nearby puskesmas who administer immunizations and provide
13 In 1995, the household cost of education at the primary level average Rp66,000. We use an exchange rate of Rp8,000: US$ 1.



32
some basic nutritional education.
i.    Coverage. The effectiveness of Posyandu (similar to the BKB) depends on level of cadre
activity in the village, area and target population. At present there are 196,000 Posyandus that provide
services to about 9.8 million children between the ages 0 and 5. National coverage is low at 21 percent
with large provincial variation. Provinces on the island of Sumatra and Bali have higher participation
than others. The problems areas are East, West and Central Java See table below). Despite the fact that
overall coverage is low, at the village level, the Posyandus have been well targeted to poor villages where
the need is greatest. Most of the Posyandus that are available are located in rural villages (about 77
percent). However, the single largest service delivery problem has been access in extremely rural and
remote areas. Access to rural and remote villages is measured by examining the average distance in that
mothers have to travel to obtain services. These distances increase in the outer-islands where remoteness
and the lack of basic infrastructure make traveling difficult. The average distance that women travel in
Irian Jaya for example to get to a Posyandu is almost 14 km.
iii.   Demand Who users Posyandu services? A probit analysis was conducted to examine the
factors that influence household demand for Posyandu services. The findings indicate that:
*  Age of child. Posyandu services are most frequently used for younger children. The probability
of usage decreases by 1 percent for each additional year in child age. The services provided at the
Posyandu focus primarily on the lower age group 0-3 years of age, for example, children should be
fully immunized within the first 24 months of birth. The equipment provided is also generally for the
younger age group, the weighing scale is not appropriate for the older children (4-6 years).
Table 2: Supply of Posyandus
Province            Number of Posyandu        Number of        Coverage
children      (percent)'4
0-5
U Urban         Rural
DKI Jakarta                    3,134             -         156,700              19
West Java                     11,231        28,525         561,550              11
Central Java                   7,741        28,146         387,050              11
Yogyakarta                      1,544        2,956          77,200              29
East Java                      8,915        27,822         445,750               5
Aceh                             232         4,346         228,900              46
North Sumatra                  2,863         6,620         474,150              31
West Sumatra                     938         4,599         276,850             47
Riau                             782         2,278         153,000              29
Jambi                            318         1,993         115,550              38
South Sumatra                   1,082        4,658         287,000             31
Bengkulu                         186         1,331          75,850             40
Lampung                          474         5,529         300150               36
West Kalimantan                  335         2,200          126750             27
Central Kalimantan               139         1,292          71550              37
South Kalimantan                 395         2,419         140700              39
East Kalimantan                 1,122        1,528          132500              43
North Sulawesi                   306         1,791          104850              35
'1 Assuming that each Posyandu covers 50 children on average, coverage is defined as (number of Posyandu clusters *50)1 child population
between 0 and 5



33
Central Sulawesi               1.40       1,911        102550             38
South Sulawesi               1,177       6,161         366900             39
South-East Sulawesi            153        1,426         78950             32
Maluku                         240        1,482         86100             32
Bali                           673        3,074        187350             62
NTB                            468        2,839        165350             31
NTT                            304        4,555        242950             43
Irian Jaya                     199        1,092         64550             22
Timur-timur                     57         673          78950             51
National                     45148       151246      9,819,700            21
(Source: Estimated from PODES 1993 data)
* Wealth. Household wealth has a significant negative effect on the demand for Posyandus.
Wealthier households are less likely to use Posyandu services than poorer households. This is
because they can afford to higher user fees and commonly prefer to other more expensive substitutes.
Posyandus are substitutes when other health services offered at the puskesmas are difficult to obtain
because mothers have to large travel distances to the nearest center. In many remote areas, it is the
only source of preventive health care.
-  Mother's education and age. Other characteristics of household usage include the age and
education of the mother where the younger and more educated mothers are more likely to usage such
services. The more educated the mother the more likely she is to realize the benefits of the services
provided by the Posyandu service and consequently the more likely she would be to attend. The
DHS (1994) survey also reports a similar finding where mothers who received a secondary education
or higher were more likely have their child immunized than mothers who had no education (71
percent vs. 25.5 percent). Similarly younger women with higher levels of literacy and exposure to
education are more likely to understand the benefits associated with these interventions.
B. BKB
The BKB or mother-child program first began in 1982. The program was designed to provide
mothers (and other caregivers) with child development information and some limited training to enable
them to help stimulate their child's gross and fine motor activities, cognitive, social and emotional
development and supervise the overall growth of their child. There is a total of about 119,000 BKB
programs throughout Indonesia. The estimated participation rate' for the nation averages 21 percent. It
ranges from as low as 5 percent in East Kalimantan, Jakarta and the outer island to 66 percent in
Yogjakarta. The variation is partially dues to the lack of adequate funding and other factors which have
restricted expansion over the last few years.
At present, the most important element of the BKB program is the participation of the cadres. The
cadres/program volunteers drive the BKB program in the village, without active participation of cadres
the BKB program will not continue. As such it is important to focus on the level of cadre participation.
To examine the level of activity or interest in the village, we use as a proxy or program effectiveness the
average number of cadres per BKB clusters in each province.
The analysis indicates that the high cadre requirement is not being met. The present program
design requires that participation of 10 cadres, 5 of which are for providing instruction to the mothers and
the other 5 for child-care purposes. On average, only 3 cadres participate in BKB meetings. The
implication of this finding is twofold: the cadre requirement is too high and the BKB curriculum in it's
present form is not being implemented successfully in the field.
Field visits and other studies indicate that main problems in the implementation of the BKB
activity are : the lack of adequate supplies (especially the educational toys (APE); inappropriate levels of



34
training for the cadres; difficult curriculum that cadres find to implement resulting in boredom, disinterest
and high drop-out. While the unit cost of the activity is very low at an estimated at Rp. 2 million per
cluster or Rp. 40,000 per participant per year (costs cover the instructional and training materials, APE or
educational toys and the cost of training the cadre and BKKBN field workers) the sustainability of the
activity with it high cadre requirements and inadequate training activity remains is also low.
Table 3: Supply of BKB and Participation rates
Province           BKB            Average  of participants"      Participation rate'
DKI Jakarta                   815                           40,750                    5.0
West Java                   16,238                         811,900                   16.6
Central Java               31,244                         1,562,200                 45.6
Yogyakarta                 .3,511                          175,550                   66.6
East Java                  33,755                         1,687,750                  18.7
Aceh                        3,433                          171,650                   34.6
North Sumatra               4,754                          237,700                   15.5
West Sumatra                2,216                          110,800                   18.9
Riau                          814                           40,700                    7.7
Jambi                       2,069                          103,450                   33.8
South Sumatra               3,037                          151,850                   16.5
Bengkulu                      871                           43,550                   22.9
Lampung                     2,052                          102,600                   12.2
West Kalimantan              1,299                          64,950                   14.0
Central Kalimantan            519                           25,950                   13.3
South Kalimantan            2,168                          108,400                   30.1
East Kalimantan               311                            15,550                   5.1
North Sulawesi               1,461                          73,050                   24.3
Central Sulawesi              887                           44,350                   16.3
South Sulawesi              2,138                          106,900                   11.2
South-East Sulawesi           829                           41,450                   16.9
Maluku                        914                           45,700                   16.8
Bali                         1,860                          93,000                   30.9
NTB                           685                           34,250                    6.4
NTT                           703                           35,150                    6.2
Irian Jaya                    423                           21,150                    7.3
Timur-timur                   475                           23,750                   15.2
National                  119,481                         5,974,050            21 percent
(Source: BKKBN 1997)
C. What Needs To Be Done (Posyandu/BKB Programs)
It is clear that the Posyandu and BKB activity have several similar characteristics and problems,
namely:
*  coverage is not comprehensive at present. Large provincial variation exists;
*  there is difficulty in the provision of services in rural and remote areas;
* the target populations are the same - poor children less than 5 years old and their parents;
* services are provided free of charge to households;
* both are volunteer programs and these volunteers are generally the same mothers in each village;
and
*   low unit costs.
Based on the above characteristics and additional several other factors, the project proposes to
"Assuming that each BKB meetings accomadates 50 children.
6 Assuming that there are a total of 50 mothers attending each Posyandu and that the children between 0-5 years belong to different households,
we divise the follow formula. Average participation = Total number of mothers attending / Total number of children aged 0-5.



35
integrate the Posyandu and BKB activities where training and service delivery mechanisms will be
combined as a cost effective measure for program expansion. These factors include the following:
* the service delivery problems of both programs are similar, cadre drop-out is high incurring cost
of re-training;
*  at present the BKB activities requires the participation of 10 cadres in each cluster, however, the
analysis shows that average number of cadres that participate is far less. Thus, by reducing the
number of required cadres and recruiting those who are already participating in ECD through the
Posyandu program, the local cost of cadre recruitment reduces substantially; and
*  the number of Posyandu clusters in Indonesia exceed that of BKB clusters by about 60 percent.
Thus integration of these activities, will reduce the additional start-up cost of establishing new
clusters adding an extra impetus for the integration of the programs.
D.   Cost-Benefit of Integration vs. Segmented Implementation.
The integration of the Posyandu and BKB programs is predominantly the integration of the training
of cadres and monitoring and evaluation. This implies that certain overhead costs can be dramatically
reduced. The cost-benefit analysis presented here focuses on the difference between integrating the
programs and implementing them as two separate activities.
The training structure for the programs are identical cluster models beginning with the
development at the central level, followed by the training of the provincial and district personnel who are
responsible for training the cadres. At every level of training, the overheads that are incurred include:
cost of renting or obtaining a building, administrative cost of organizing the program, transportation of
the trainers and participants preparation and printing of training materials. The unit cost of training the
Posyandu/BKB cadres is about Rp72,000 per day under the first altemative (See table 4). If the programs
are not integrated the unit cost of training increases by as much as 25 percent to about Rp9O,000 per day.
Thus, integration is the more cost-effective than non-integration.
Table 4: Cost of an Integrated F'osyandu/BKB program vs. Non-integrated program
Integrated            Non-integrated
Unit cost of training per cadre   Rp 72,000 per day  Rp 90,000 per day
E.   Summary.
Problems                                          Interventions
Inappropriate curriculum (BKB program)   Review, evaluation and revision of BKB program to simplify
curriculum
High cadre requirements                  Rationalization and integration of Posyandu/BKB programs to met
cadre requirements
Revision of curriculum to lower cadre requirement for BKB programs
(from 10 to 5)
Lack of adequate equipment (specifically the   Provision of equipment as requested in district proposals
weighing scale and growth monitoring chart)
Inadequate training                      Provision of comprehensive training for cadres which lasts 10 days
instead of 2-4 days per year
D.   Kindergarten
Increased gross enrollments at the kindergarten level is important since kindergartens are the
primary means of delivery of early child education services directly to children between the ages 4 and 6.
Sufficiently high enrollments signify that children are exposed to early child education interventions and



36
consequently the probability of grade retention and drop-out should be reduced.
This is not the case in Indonesia. Gross enrollments are low at 18 percent in 1996. Despite the
vast gains made in the last two decades, where gross enrollments rose from 6 percent in 1970 to 18
percent in 1996 in relation to other developing countries, Indonesia still lags behind. A cross-cultural
analysis indicates that gross enrollment is much lower than other populous countries such as China and
Brazil. Gross enrollment in Indonesia is at 19 percent while in China it is 28 percent. When compared to
other east-Asian countries, again Indonesia appears to have a much lower gross enrollment rate than
many others. Indonesia's gross enrollment is about a third of gross enrollments in Japan, Malaysia and
Thailand.
Table 5: Comparison of pre-primary gross enrollment rates17
Country            Gross Enrollment Rate      Population'8 (millions)     GNP per capita (US$)
Indonesia                  19.2                        190                        880
Other populous Third World countries
India                       4.8                       914                         2.9
Brazil                     57.6                        159                       2,970
China                      28.7                       1,191                       530
Other Asian Countries
Malaysia                   59.0                        20                        3,480
Korea                      84.9                        44                        8,260
Japan                      48.7                       125                        34,630
Thailand                   57.8                        58                        2,410
Source: Gross enrollment rates (Unesco, database), 1997.
Per capita GDP and population, World Development Report, 1997.
Why are gross enrollments low so low in Indonesia? To determine the low rate of gross
enrollment in Indonesia, we isolate the underlying demand and supply factors. On the supply-side:
1.    Supply. An examination of the gross enrollment rate and distribution of kindergartens
shows that the intra-provincial gap is varied and large. The provinces in Indonesia can be divided into
three main groups: those with high enrollment that require very limited additional resources, those with
low enrollments and low population densities and those with low enrollments and high population
densities. For example, Yogjakarta would fall into the first category with a high enrollment rate of nearly
50 percent and consequently a small service delivery gap. On the other hand, many of the outer-island
provinces would fall into the second category, where the need is the greatest, the service delivery gap is
also very small due to low population density. In Irian Jaya for example, an estimated 1,250
kindergartens would have to be built to increase gross enrollments to about 100 percent. The third and
most problematic type of provinces are those with higher density populations and low gross enrollments
such as West Java. The enrollment rate for West Java was extremely low at 5.1 percent, to increase
enrollments to 100 percent, an additional 21,000 kindergartens are needed.
Supply in rural areas is highly inadequate and the urban-rural disparity is large. Only 32 percent of
all rural villages have kindergartens while 82 percent of urban areas have at least one kindergarten in
each administrative area. An estimated 42,000 villages and urban cities still do not have at least one
kindergarten in them.
At present, the primarily supplier of services has been the private sector. Public kindergarten are
" The total enrollment in education preceeding the first level, regardless of age, divided by the population of the age-group corresponding to the
national regulations for this level of education in 1995.
Is 1994 data



37
very few in number and tend to be concentrated in the urban areas. The data shows that Indonesian
children attend private kindergartens more, than they do public. More than 95 percent of students enrolled
in kindergarten were enrolled in private facilities.
Table 6: Supply of kindergartens both Public and Private for Selected Provinces
Province          Gross    Number of              Province          Gross    Number of
Enrollment   Schools                             Enrollment   Schools
Rate                                              Rate
South Sumatra         5.2         527            North Sulawesi        19.0        1139
Bengkulu            8.2         247            Central Sulawesi      12.0         501
Central Java        21.5        10900           South Sulawesi         9.0        1113
Yogyakarta          48.6        1819               Maluku              7.4        322
Irian Jaya          6.7         209                 Bali             19.1        660
Timur-timur          2.9         58                  NTB               8.4         537
(Source: Ministry of Education, 1997)
ii.   Demand An examination of supply-side factors is insufficient because low awareness and
demand. The factors that prohibit household demand include:
* Fees. Kindergartens unlike other institutions such as primary school and junior secondary school
have a lower direct cost to households because the only expense is school fees. Text-books are not
part of the curriculum and uniforms often are not mandatory. On average, kindergarten fees are
about Rp3,000 per month or Rp36,000 per year. However, variation is extremely large as expensive
urban kindergartens charge fees of about Rpl 5,000 per month while many foundations run
kindergartens without charging any fees at all in poor villages. While Rp3,000 does not represent a
large percentage of household per capita income, it still serves as an income constraint when
resources are under severe pressure.
*  Opportunity Cost. Children attend kindergarten in the fifth and sixth year before they enter
primary school. These young children are generally unable to travel to school without being
accompanied by their parents or some designated adult. Consequently, part of the cost of enrolling a
child in kindergarten is the opportunity cost of the parent's time as they have to send the child to
school daily. Given that the average wage rate in Indonesia is Rp464'9 per hour and the average
travel time is an hour per day, the cost per month would increase fourfold to about Rpl4,000 per
month. The opportunity cost of parental traveling time far exceeds that of school fees. Thus, it is
important to ensure that kindergartens are located in areas where households accessibility and travel
time is reduced significantly.
*  Awareness. The benefits of kindergarten education such as school readiness are not known to all
parents, many regard kindergartens more in terms of play and custodial care rather than development.
The younger generation however, is increasingly beginning to recognize the benefits of kindergarten
education for their children. A recent study (Baptist 1998) shows that younger mothers are more
likely than older mothers to enroll their children in kindergartens.
iii.   Quality. While access issues remain central, another aspect is the of quality. Are existing
institutions providing children with high quality care. Due to data limitations we rely on two key
indicators student to teacher ratio, and the availability of equipment, furniture and educational materials.
In addition, this information is supplemented with on-site classroom visits to kindergartens in the selected
provinces.
9 Average hourly wages as reported in "Indonesia: Dimensions of Growth" was Rp5O7 for non agriculture and Rp421 for agriculture workers.
The above is an average of the two.



38
Student-teacher ratio. The data shows that there is no evidence of over-crowding in
kindergartens in Indonesia and that the students per teacher ratio is sufficiently low to ensure that children
receive the appropriate amounts of attention in the classroom. The student teacher-ratio in Indonesia
averages about 21 students per teacher in private kindergartens and students 19 per teacher in public
kindergartens. Variation among provinces seems low with one exception in public kindergartens in Irian
Jaya where the ratio is about 40 students per teacher in public kindergartens.
Table 6: Student/teacher ratio by province
Province         Student/Teacher ratio          Province         Student/Teacher ratio
Private     Public              _               Private     Public
DKI Jakarta         18          11           West Kalimanatan        16          12
West Java           18         22             North Sulawesi        16          17
Central Java        21          23            Central Sulawesi       17          23
Yogyakarta          13           8            South Sulawesi         18          18
East Java          23          31                Maluku             12          9
NTT              19          19                 Bali              16          12
Irian Jaya         18          14                 NTB               22          15
National Average: 21 19
(Source: PODES 1993)
Equipment, furniture and educational materials and toys. A rapid assessment was used in the
six of the project districts to identify the needs of the existing kindergartens. The results indicate that
many of the poorer kindergartens reported that they were lacking adequate furniture, equipment and
supplies. On average, 65 percent reported lacking tables and chairs while nearly 100 percent reported
inadequate supply of the basic educational materials (toys and books) for instructional use. A simple
correlation was conducted and high correlation was found between the amount of school fees charged and
the supply inadequacies. Field observations also showed that there was a severe shortage of educational
materials and toys which hampered the implementation and expansion of the curricula in the classroom
(World Bank, 1997). Many of the kindergartens in the project districts were not receiving funding from
the government but were financing the operational costs from the school fees that they charged the
children.
Field Observations.20 The quality of learning in the classroom was assessed based on an
examination of the overall curricula for the programs and the application of child development theory.
The following deficiencies were found:
* The activities for children were most often product-oriented work and teachers did not focus
on the on the learning inherent in the activity, but rather on whether the child correctly
followed the model.
* Implementation and expansion of the curricula is hampered by lack of materials in many
programs.
* Emergent literacy materials were particularly scarce at all age levels. Items such as picture
and story books, writing materials and paper were scare especially in Bahasa Indonesia.
iv.   What needs to be done in Early child Education andproject interventions? The service
delivery gaps in Indonesia can be summarized as the following: low access to kindergartens in general,
high cost for poor households, high travel cost, low awareness, and inadequate equipment, furniture and
educational materials in existing kindergartens reducing the quality of education.
20 World Bank, 1997. Taken from Aide Memoire for Early Childhood Development dated July 23 1997. This work was produced by Ellen
Frede.



39
Problems                          Project Intervention
Low supply of kindergartens in rural  Construction of 331 new kindergartens (predominantly in
areas                             rural ][DT villages)
High fees                         Kindergartens under the project will provide services free to
children in poor IDT villages.
High travel time (cost exceeds that of  Construction of kindergartens in rural IDT villages so that
the average school fees)          parents do not have to travel large distances to send their
children to school.
Low parental awareness            IEC campaigns at the national and local level
Lack of equipment and furniture   Provision of grants to existing kindergartens
Lack of educational materials and  Provision of grants to existing kindergartens
toys
IV. COST-EFFECTIVENESS
This section consist of two main parts, a section on the nutrition component and another which
describes several cost-effective models for various building designs that were introduced and agreed
upon by the GOI. The models in the second parit seek to maximize the effectiveness of kindergartens and
the Posyandu/BKB activity in service delivering within the parameters of cost-minimization.
Kindergarten designs proposed and agreed upon adhere to the strict rule that sufficient space should be
allocated for children's activities.
A.   Nutrition Intervention
Is the nutrition intervention cost-effective? Despite the fact that the nutrition intervention to supply
supplementary feeding was designed in a short period of time, efforts have been made to ensure that it is
cost-effective for the Government of Indonesia especially during times of economic crisis when public
funds are scarce and needs are overwhelming. The estimated cost of the nutrition intervention for this
program is estimated at US$15 per child per year. The unit cost of the nutrition component is US$0.18
per 1000 calories delivered. In comparison to other food supplementation interventions of a similar
nature2", the nutrition intervention that is being introduced under the project is extremely cost effective
(See table below). The per unit cost (includes both procurement and all other distribution costs) is lower
that the sample average of US$0.20.
Table 7: Comparison Of ECD Nutrition Intervention Against Similar Interventions In Other Countries.
Year   Cost per 1000
Country                   calories delivered
Bolivia                1988           0.12
India                  1982           0.20
Honduras               1988           0.36
Ecuador                1988           0.21
Guatemala              1988           0.33
Paraguay               1988           0.90
Peru                   1988           0.32
21 The sample consist of MCH and feeding programs only.



40
Uruguay                  1988           0.24
ECD project              1998           0.1822
Source: Jamison et al., 1993 for all estimates except those for the ECD project.
Estimates for ECD project were calculated by the author.
B.   Access To Posyandu/BKB Programmes
As described in Annex 1, Posyandu/BKB programs are at present held in a variety of locations:
the house of the polindes (the village mid-wife); in Bali in the Banjar (the village meeting place); in
the village poskesdas (clinics); or in purpose built centers of various sizes.
During project preparation, it was found that some communities required a Posyandu/BKB center
with the following dimensions: a covered (but not necessarily enclosed) meeting space large enough
to accommodate 25 mothers; a room for consultations, simple examinations and storage of toys and
equipment; and a small waiting area. Thus to accommodate these needs and increase Posyandu/BKB
attendance the project will build in a selected number of villages (where the need is greatest) centers.
However, to efficiently allocate resources as required various altematives have been explored:
*   an extension to a Polindes or to an existing meeting place such as a Banjar in Bali or a village
office in West Java; or
* the construction of a new center if the land is available in the villages.2"
Table 7: Comparative costs of Posyandu/BKB Centers
Type of Building                                        Cost
Posyandu/BKB Center                                 Rpl8,768,000
Extension to Existing Building                      Rp 7,140,000
Total savings                                       Rpl 1,628,000
The cost of extending an existing building is about 40 percent of the total cost of building a new
Posyandu/BKB center. The total savings would be about Rpl 1.6 million for each center constructed. It
can be seen therefore that the most cost-effective way to provide increased access to the Posyandu/BKB
program would be to extend existing buildings.
C.   Access To Kindergartens24
To increase access to kindergartens in Indonesia using the most cost effective measures, the project
proposes the following: alternative facility designs; urban trade-off; and use of vacant SD schools.
i.    Allowing For Alternative Facility Designs. The first measure which has already been
implemented is the reduction of GOI's requirements for the construction of kindergartens. The
government standard was set at 2,000m2. During pre-appraisal, discussions were held with GOI to
determine the cost-effectiveness of these requirements. As a result, it was agreed that the requirement
would be reduced so that to l,500m2 and even less in certain circumstances (see below) to accommodate
the needs in rural areas (where the density of children is lower) and also to reduce the land requirements
that the villages would have to provide under the project and the allocation of financing in urban areas
such as Denpasar and Tanggerang where land is at a premium, expensive and scarce. This alternative
I The exchange rate used was Rp8,000: US$1.
23 In addition, it has been determined that the square metre cost of constructing a complete new Posyandu/BKB centre would not be the same as
building the standard single storey (type D) building because the structure would not have all walls, windows or doors. Consequently, the per
unit cost would be reduced by a factor of 20 percent resulting in an average cost of Rp408,000per m2. If a consultation/storage room and waiting
area is added, the unit cost of this area would however be the same Rp5 10,000 per m2 as walls, doors and windows would have to be built.
24 This section is taken from a report produced by Nigel Wakeham, 1998.



41
allows for savings of up to a quarter of total construction costs or Rp.79,050,000 per unit built.
a~~ ~ IL B                             4    .A 5O~cC S_ W lW-- 
.. .               .  . _. .                              , 
' -  *   0KD1 1  fl *; '*- A - T   v
Drawing 1: Standard kindergarten proposed under the project (1 500m2)
ii.    The urban trade-off Urban trade-off. In the projects' urban districts, issues of land
scarcity could arise. Consequently, it would be necessary to either reduce the size of the kindergarten;
reduce the size of the external playground; or build the kindergarten on two-stories. As a result, there
would be two main options to choose from: a single-story facility on 1500m2 (the standard option) or a
modified alternative of a double-story building on I 000m2 of land. Which is most cost-effective? The
answer depends on the differences between the per m2 per of
Table 8: Urban Trade-off"
Costs                 Kindergarten           Double-story
kindergarten
Land                  270,000,000            180,000,000
Construction          116,280,000            133,608,000
Total                 386,280,000            313,608,000
land and the per m2 price of construction. To illustrate the trade-off we use the example of Denspasar
where land is at a premium and costs approximately Rpl8 million per 10Om2 . The
total cost of the first option is Rp386,280,000 while the second is Rp313,608,000 per facility. In fact the
second option is cheaper because land is so expensive thus making option two a more cost-effective one.
The total savings on each facility would amount to Rp73 million.
iii. Use of vacant SD schools. An alternative to constructing new kindergartens would be to
use existing primary school classroom units that are no longer required. Through the school-mapping
exercise, many SD schools have been consolidated leaving facilities vacant. The cost of renovating an
existing kindergarten is far lower than that of building a standard new facility. The potential savings
accrued per unit built amount to approximately Rp46,000,000. As a result, this project actively
encourages districts to convert abandoned primary school buildings into kindergartens because of the
relative cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
iv.   Conclusion. Of the three options, the most cost effective way of providing new
25 Calculated using construction costs of the project districts (an average was taken of all 12 districts).



42
kindergartens is through the use of surplus primary school buildings and this option should be thoroughly
explored when preparing the detailed district plans. Where these buildings are not available, the second
cost-effective option is the single-storey villages kindergarten. In urban situations however, the sites
available could be too small for a single-story building and a two-story kindergarten will have to be built
even though these cost a great deal more.
V.   COST BENEFIT26
The cost-benefit analysis focuses on determining the IRR or internal rate of return for
interventions associated with a two year early child education intervention. The analysis is based on
the following assumption: first, two years of kindergarten or some other program is provided at a unit
cost of Rp 200,000 per year; second, poor children (e.g., the lowest income quintile) have grade
repetition rates that are twice the average for the population as a whole (a reasonable assumption based
on international data); and third, the preschool program reduces their grade repetition rates by 50
percent (Barnett, in press; Myers, 1992). In addition, two alternative approaches were used to estimate
effects on earnings. One assumed that earnings are increased by 40 percent of the average earnings of
primary school graduates after age 18 (based on findings by Barnett, 1996). The other calculated the
earnings increases associated with increased educational attainment assuming a set of plausible changes
in educational attainment (primary school completion rates rise from 60 percent to 80 percent, junior
secondary completion rates rise from 25 percent to 45 percent, and senior secondary completion rates
rise from 10 percent to 20 percent).
The first approach produced a projected internal rate of return of 15 percent, the second an
internal rate of return of 13 percent. Note that these estimates make no provision for potential
additional economic returns due to increased health, household productivity, reduced crime, and other
benefits found to accrue to early education and increased educational attainment generally. Thus, this
preliminary analysis indicates that education programs for poor children ages 5 and 6 and costing
around Rp 200,000 per year have the potential to be sound economic investments in Indonesia.
VI.   PROJECT COVERAGE
The project targets children in 12 districts located in 3 main provinces in Indonesia. The
districts that were chose include: Bali - Denspasar, Buleleng, Klungklung and Karamasam; South
Sulawesi - Gowa, Maros, Bulukumba and Bone; West Java - Pandelgang, Lebak, Tangerang and
Indramayu. The total population of children in these districts collectively is about 690,000 between the
ages of 0 and 5 (estimates from SUSENAS 1995). Within the districts, the main beneficiaries of the
project interventions are children in poor IDT villages. The target group for each of the interventions
varies, for specific interventions such as the supplementary feeding program, the target group is
children between 0 and 2, for kindergartens the target group are children between 4-6 and the BKB and
Posyandu programs both target the widest age group of 0 and 5 year olds in the 12 districts. We
present below the coverage of the two single largest project interventions.
i.     Nutrition. The nutrition intervention is part of a large GOI/UNICEF coordinated
initiative to target as many poor children in Indonesia as possible. The participants of this initiative
include: AUSAID, the World Food Program, the Asian Development Bank, the Government of Japan
and the World Bank. This project will target approximately 249,055 children in the IDT villages and
rural areas of the 12 districts. This implies that about 72 percent of the children in the 12 project
districts will receive the intervention.
26 Extracted from analysis conducted by Steve Barnett (1997).



43
H.     Kindergartens. Approximately 230 kindergartens will be build and 110 rehabilitated in
the target area. This implies access to kindergairtens will be increased for at least 34,000 children
between the ages of 4 and 6. In addition approximately 1255 teachers will received re-training
fellowships to increase their credentials to the D1-I level. Thus, approximately, 44 percent of children
between the age of 4-6 will benefit from the various kindergarten related interventions in the 12
districts.



44
Annex 5
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Fiscal Analysis
A.   Introduction
In the last year, the economic situation in Indonesia has changed rapidly. After a long period of
strong economic growth, the economy is on the brink of collapse with a GDP decline of about 8.5 percent
in the first quarter of 1998 and an expected reduction of about 7.5 percent in the second quarter (See table
below). Consequently, GOI is now faced with a situation of reduced resources and increased demands on
these resources. The public expenditure budget as a percentage of GDP will begin to rise substantially in
the coming fiscal year.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Framework
1996/97   1997/98   1998/99  1999/00  2000/01
Growth Rate            7.8       1.0      -12       0.0       3.0
Government
Expenditure/GDP        13.9      16.7     24.2      18.0     17.0
(percent)
(Source: World Bank, draft June 1998)
Under these circumstances, it becomes extremely important to examine the fiscal implications of
the proposed project and interventions to ensure that the fiscal burden on GOI is manageable and
recurrent expenditure can be easily absorbed into the development or routine budget after project
completion.
The key element of the fiscal analysis is the Early Child Development (ECD) budget which is not
readily available in Indonesia. In addition, estimating the total ECD budget is also extremely difficult
because these programs are implemented independently of each other by three different ministries and
have fragmented budgets. ECD activities are currently being carried out by the Ministry of Health
(Posyandu program), the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKB program) and the Ministry
of Education (kindergartens). In the case of kindergartens, the budget is known. For the other two
programs, it is less clear as Posyandus are part of the community health centers and BKKBN conducts
many activities that are related to the BKB program that the overlap is immense. Consequently, due to
these data limitations, this analysis uses pooled estimates of the individual budgets for the three programs,
the framework of which is presented in the first part of the analysis and which is followed by the
estimation of the budget for the subsequent 8 years, and finally issues of sustainability are examined.
B.   Budgets2"
The budgets allocated for the three programs have been extremely small. The largest allocation of
resources to ECD activities has been in the health sector. The total health budget allocated for
community health services in 1997/98 was Rpl47 billion, of this amount 70 percent was for community
health centers (including the Posyandu program) which was RplO3 billion. For FY96/97, the estimated
amount was Rp 143 billion of which Rp 100 billion was for community health centers including the
posyandu. The actual allocation for posyandu activities is difficult to estimate because much of the
allocation at the village level is in-kind. Thus, as an approximation assumed that about 50 percent of the
community health center budget is for posyandu allowing for Rp51.5 and Rp50 billion in FY97/96 and
FY96/97 respectively.
27 Budgetary data was obtained from the individual ministries during pre-appraisal.



45
Similarly, the budget for the BKB program is small. The total BKKBN budget for the BKB
program in FY96/97 is estimated at about Rp2 billion. In addition, the BKB program receives funding
for multiple sources at the provincial level mainly because the budget allocated through BKKBN is
insufficient for the necessary activities. For exarnple, in Bali 0.01 percent of the 1997/98 budget received
by BKKBN provincial office was for the BKB program. Although supplemental budgets were allocated
through the APBD I these additions also insubstantial. In Bali, the sum total of financing allocated from
the provincial budget did not exceed Rp3,000,000.
The kindergartens budget for the fiscal year 1996/97 was roughly about 0.3 percent of the total
development budget allocated for education or Rpl4 billion. And the budget for routine expenditures
was Rp27 billion in 1996/97 or 0.6 percent of the total education budget. Thus, the total kindergarten
budget was approximately Rp41 billion or 0.4 percent of the total education budget for Indonesia.
Budget data is complete for FY96/97 and 'the total ECD budget for that year amounts to about
Rp93 billion (See table below). The estimated ECD budget for the coming fiscal year 1998/99 is still
undetermined. Therefore an estimated budget is derived using the FY96/97 budget figures and
employing the assumption that the ECD budget will remain constant (in real FY96/97 terms). The result
is an estimate of Rp2O9.35 billion for Early Child Development activities in FY98/99.
Table 2: ECD budget for FY96/97 and the estimated budget for FY98/99
(in illions of Rp)
Health        BKB        Kindergartens     Total
(posyandu)
FY96/97        50             2             41            93
Estimated       -             -             -          209.2528
FY98/99
C.   Sustainability
The issue of sustainability is examined using the following indicators: fiscal burden of project cost
on ECD budget, and fiscal burden of recurrent cost (of project) on ECD budget. The assumptions used in
this model are: inflation increases to 80 percent: in FY98/99, a further 20 percent in FY99/00 and
remains at 7 percent thereafter; the growth rate of GDP contracts by 12 percent in FY98/99, remains at 0
for FY99/00 and begins to increase thereafter at a rate of 3-6 percent; and GOI with a commitment to
protecting the social sectors maintains the budget constant in real throughout the period FY98/99-2005/06
(in FY96/97 terms).29
The analysis shows that the burden of the investment costs on the GOI budget increases in the
second, third and fourth year of implementation. In these years, the project will increase GOI's ECD
budget by as much as 60 percent (See table below). This is predominantly due to the nutrition component
which is a three year intervention that will occuIr between FY98/99 and FYO0/01. Both counterpart-
funding and sustainability are non-issues as the financing ratio for this expenditure (nutrition) because it
is financed 100 percent by through the loan and the component is designed as emergency support.
28 Estimated using inflation rates of 25 percent for FY97/98 and 80 percent for FY98/99.
29   implies that the budget increases at a constant rate of inflation.



46
Table 3: Fiscal Analysis - No growth in real-terms (in billions of Rp)
Year/Item                98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    02/03    03/04    04/05    05/06
Growth rate               -12      0.00        3        3        3        4        5         6
Inflation rate             80       20         7        7        7        7        7         7
Real growth of ECD          0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0
budget
<------------------------Implementation Period------------------>  After project
Total ECD Budget         209.3    251.1    268.7    287.5    307.6    329.1    352.2    376.8
(nominal values)
Total Project Costs30     36.1    153.2    159.0     39.7      12.5      4.4
Total Project Recurrent            0.03     0.20     0.67       1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2
Costs
Total Project Cost/Total    17.24  61.0     60.0     13.1      4.1       1.3
ECD Budget (percent)
Total Project Recurrent            0.01     0.07     0.23      0.4       0.4      0.3      0.3
Cost/Total ECD Budget
(percent)
For the other components, sustainability is determined by the level of recurrent expenditure. In
this case, recurrent expenditure as a total of the early child development budget remains low throughout
the project cycle and beyond. It increases from 0.01 percent to a high of 0.4 percent by the end of the
project cycle. Thus, even if the ECD budget does not grow in real terms, the burden of the recurrent costs
on the GOI budget is a non-issue. The expected recurrent costs at the end of the project life is small
enough so that it will be absorbed by increases in the ECD budget.
Conclusion. The analysis indicates that the GOI will not experience increased budgetary pressure
during implementation and counterpart-funds should not be an issue because the non-crisis related
expenditures are small. In addition, sustainabilty is also not an issue as the recurrent costs are small
enough so that they can be easily absorbed by the GOI after project completion.
30 Total project costs used in these models are an aggregate of all categories of expenditure excluding Technical
Assistance. Project cost however does include price and physical contingencies, and taxes.



47
Annex 6
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement methods
All procurement of goods and works funded under the Bank loan will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement uinder IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, and
revised in January and August 1996 and Septernber 1997. The procurement of consulting services will
follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised September 1997. Table A summarizes the procurement
arrangements, showing the items, their respective cost estimates and proposed method of procurement,
while Table B presents the prior review thresholds.
Organization and Management of Procurement. Most of the procurement actions for the
project will not constitute large single contracts. Construction and rehabilitation of the ECD centers and
TKs, which comprises the largest amount of works would consist of many small and scattered contracts.
Similarly the purchase of furniture, educational toys and materials and teaching materials, and other
equipment will largely comprise small purchases of mostly locally acquired material.
The Project Management and Implementation Units (PMIUs) in each district would be in charge of
procurement for the project related activities in their respective districts. Guidance will be provided by
the Provincial Project Management and Implernentation Unit (PPMIU) at the provincial capital, who will
also be responsible for procurement of project related activities at the provincial level. The CPMU would
be responsible for all procurement required for the central component, which would largely consist of
hiring international and national consultants.
Procurement procedures shall follow the Bank's guidelines. In the event of any conflict between the
Bank guidelines and Kepres 16/1994 or any other GOI regulations, the requirements of the Bank
guidelines will govern. The Government will waive such unacceptable procedures in a supplemental
letter to the Loan Agreement.
Community civil works (US$ 5.0 million equivalent for TKs and US$ 0.7 million for
BKB/Posyandu, including contingencies). The works would be small in size and scattered over the 12
districts in the three project provinces. These works will be procured following community participation
procedures agreed with the Bank during negotiations.. The works will be managed by the village
community development council (LKMD) and be supervised by the Dinas P dan K and assisted by Dinas
PUK and construction engineers. The works would consist of construction, rehabilitation or extension of
small ECD centers, particularly for Posyandu/13K.B activities, and rehabilitation and construction of new
TKs. The works would be phased. Phase I would cover 6 districts beginning in Year 2 of the project,
and Phase 2 would cover the following 6 districts beginning in Year 3 of the project. The costs of the
multi-purpose ECD centers would not exceed Rp.20 million (US$,2500 equivalent) per unit for new
construction, Rp.8 million (US$1000 equivalent) for an extension and about Rp. 5 million (US$ 625
equivalent) for the other rehabilitation works. The unit cost of constructing new TKs would be about Rp.
129 million (US$16,500 equivalent) and cost of rehabilitating an existing TK would be about Rp.96
million (US$12,000 equivalent). This would include the provision of water supply and toilets and the
construction of the new TKs would be based on revised and more cost-effective designs than the standard
GOI models. All sites would be illustrated on maps using the Geographical Information System (GIS)
and sites for Phase I program have largely been agreed but require detailed site surveys.



48
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In US$ millions equivalent)
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method                Total Cost
(include.
contingen
cies)
ICB        NCB        Others*     N.B.F.
1. Community civil works
(a) Posyandus/BKB                                0.7                    0.7
(0.7)                  (0.7)
(b)Kindergartens                                 5.0                    5.0
(TKs)                                      (5.0)                  (5.0)
2. Goods                              0.8          0.6                     1.4
(0.8)        (0.5)                  (1.3)
3. Food (including         9.8                      1.0                    10.8
distribution costs)        (9.8)                   (0.8)                  (10.6)
4. Fellowships and                                  1.9                    1.9
Training                                         (1.9)                   (1.9)
5. Services of Contract                            0.2                     0.2
Teachers                                          (0.2)                   (0.2)
6. Project Management                              0.5                     0.5
(0.4)                  (0.4)
7. Consultant Services and                          1.4                    1.4
studies                                            (1.4)                  (1.4)
8. Maintenance                                                 0.2         0.2
9. Land Acquisition                                            3.4
Total                     9.8          0.8         11.3        3.6         25.5
(9.8)       (0.8)       (10.9)                  (21.5)
* Community participation, national shopping, direct contracting, Government's administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and consultant selection procedures acceptable to the Bank.
NBF = Not Bank-financed. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Goods (US$ 1.4 million equivalent, including contingencies). Furniture and equipment for ECD
centers and TKs, and offices, (US$0.9 million) would be procured on an annual basis in accordance with
the phasing of project activities. Each package of goods is not expected to exceed US$200,000 but
package exceeding US$50,000 would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, and
equipment and furniture costing less than US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of national
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate of US$600,000. Quotations must be
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers on the basis of a detailed description and quantity of
goods, as well as the desired delivery time and place. Educational materials and Information, Education
and Communication (IEC) Materials (US$ 0.5 million) would consist of educational books, learning
materials and toys for ECD programs (including the APE toys for the BKB program), teaching modules,
teaching aids, and training materials. They would be procured by the Dinas P & K at the district level,
acknowledged by Kandep/Kanin Dikbud and/or Kandep Depag, through direct contracting of proprietary
items or NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The procurement will be based on lists of appropriate



49
educational books, materials and toys that are already available and agreed with the Bank. The IEC
activities would consist of the development, production and distribution of materials through a variety of
media, and the conduct of IEC campaigns. No packages are expected to exceed US$200,000 but
packages exceeding US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of NCB procedures, acceptable to the
Bank, up to an aggregate of US$800,000. All packages below US$50,000 will be procured on the basis
of national shopping procedures.
Food (including distribution costs) for infants 6-24 months (US$ 10.8 million equivalent
including contingencies). This will be a micronutrient fortified cereal-legume blend which meets the
requirements of the Codex Alimentarius and the World Food Program and UNICEF guidelines for
complementary foods for infants. The complennentary food will be "ready to serve". The product will be
packaged in quantities of 500 g and metallic packaging will be used to ensure shelf-life under varying
storage conditions. Complete specifications on the raw materials, production processes and finished
product have been provided by UNICEF/DEPIES. The food will be procured on the basis of ICB
procedures by Central Depkes' pimbagpro over a two year period. The food delivered directly by the
supplier to the district warehouse of Dinas Kesehatan TKII on a monthly basis. From the warehouse
it would go to the health center (puskesmas) to be distributed at the Posyandu. This would greatly
decrease the transaction and distribution cost:s. Procurement would be done on an annual basis, but
the delivery only once a month
Fellowships and Training (US$ 1.9 million equivalent, including contingencies). Fellowships for
teachers and relevant officials would be awarded in accordance with annual plans agreed with the Bank
and following Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. Training (US$ 1.6) for TK
teachers, supervisors, and Posyandu/BKB cadres will be carried out by trainers who will receive training
from consultants who will be hired following procedures set forth in the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants. The trainers would conduct training activities in accordance with Government
administrative procedures (including those governing staff travel and subsistence allowances, provision
of consumable materials, and other training-related activities) acceptable to the Bank and based on the
agreed annual work programs. Similarly, the t:raining of management and staff of the district and
provincial agencies will be carried out by consultants who will be hired in accordance with the above
Bank guidelines and who will conduct training under plans agreed with, and Government procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Services of Contract Teachers (US$ 0.2 million equivalent, including contingencies) would be
selected in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank, following Government procedures and
appointed by the district head (Bupati/Walikoi:a).
Project Management (US$ 0.5 milliom equivalent, including contingencies) support for project
management activities including honoraria, provision of office equipment and materials (excluding travel
expenses and per diem allowance which would be financed by GOI) would be provided in accordance
with Government administrative procedures azceptable to the Bank.
Consultants Services and Studies (USS 1.4 million equivalent, including contingencies). These
contracts would cover technical assistance for policy reviews, special studies and surveys, curriculum
review, and a major impact evaluation study. Recruitment would follow procedures prescribed in the
Guidelines. Letters of invitation and terms of reference for all consultancies and single source contracts
will be subject to prior review by the Bank for contracts valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more
awarded to firms or US$50, 000 equivalent or more awarded to individuals. The consultants would be
chosen based on QCBS procedures. The Bank's Standard Form of Contract (SFC) for Consultant's
Services will be used. Consulting assignments valued at more than US$200,000 equivalent will be
advertised in Development Business. The Standard Request for Proposals, including standard contracts,
dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998 will be used for all consultant assignments.



50
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
Selection Method                        Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                             (including
Expenditure Category                                                          contingencies
QCBS  QBS   SFB  LCS   CQ    Other   N.B.F
A. Firms              1.2                                                  1.2
(1.2)                                               (1.2)
B. Individuals                                           0.2              0.2
(0.2)           (0.2)
Total       (1.2)                              (0.2)             1.4
Note:: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection   CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
QBS  = Quality-based Selection             Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section
SFB  = Selection under a Fixed Budget      V of Consultants Guidelines)
LCS = Least Cost Selection
Prior Review Thresholds
Table B summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and Bank review.
Contracts for works for TKs and ECD centers would be awarded to the LKMD in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Bank. Prior review of all contracts may not be practicable, however the Bank
would do random ex-post review of a sample of approximately 20 percent.. Contracts for fellowships,
training, services of contract teachers and all other consultant contracts not subject to prior review would
be subject to random ex-post reviews.
About 30 percent of all contract awards would be subject to prior review.



51
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                 Contract Value              Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category                    Threshold                   Method                Prior Review
1. Community civil works
TK construction and                                        Community               First contract from
rehabilitation                                             participation           each district each year
List of TKs agreed by
the Bank.
ECD centers, construction and                              Community               List of ECD centers
rehabilitation                                             participation           agreed by the Bank
2. Goods
Equipment and furniture,     Less than US$200,000 but      NCB                     First contract from
education materials, and IEC  more than US$50,000          National Shopping       each district each year
US$ 50,000 or less
Food (Complementary)         More than US$200,000          ICB                     Prior review
3. Services
Consultant contracts for     Equal to or more than         QCBS                    Prior review
implementation and studies   US$100,000
Consulting services by       Equal to or more than         Individual consultants   TORs, qualifications,
individuals                  US$50,000                                             draft contract
Training, Fellowships                                      Proposal to include     Prior review of
subject, types of       proposal
participants, period of
training, cost
Services of Contract teachers                              Regular government    Criteria agreed by the
procedures              Bank
4. Miscellaneous
Project Management                                         Regular government    Criteria agreed by the
procedures.             Bank
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 13.0 million
Allocaltion of Loan Proceeds
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount                     Financing Percentage
in US$ million
(I)  Community civil works                              100%
a. Posyandu/BKB                           0.7      100%
b. Kindergarten                           4.5
(2)  Goods.                                     1.1      100% of foreign expenditures, 100 % of local
expenditures (ex-factory) and 80% of local
expenditures procured locally
(3)  Food, including distribution                       100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
costs                                              expenditures (ex-factory) and 80% of local
(a) FY 1998/1999                          2.1      expenditures procured locally.
(b) FY 1999/2000                          5.3
(c) FY 2000/2001                          3.2
(4)  Fellowships and Training                   1.7     100%
(5)  Services of Contract Teachers             0.2      100%
(6)  Project Management')                      0.4      100%
(7)  Consultant Services and Studies            1.3      100%
(8)  Unallocated                                1.0
Total                                    21.5
*Includes expenditures for honorarium, equipment and materials necessary for project implementation (excluding travel and
per diem)



52
Disbursements
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for all food contracts and contracts at
or above US$200,000 for goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, and US$50,000 for individual
consultants would be fully documented. Disbursements for all other expenditures, would be against
statements of expenditure, whereby supporting documentation is to be retained by the implementing
agencies and made available to the Bank for review during supervisions.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation and disbursement, a Special Account (SA) in
US currency in the amount of US$2.15 million will be established by the Directorate General (DG) of
Budget at Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The SA would cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, and is based on 4 months estimated
expenditures. The DG Budget will submit applications for replenishment of the Special Account on a
monthly basis, or when the account is drawn down to within 20% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first. In addition to the supporting documents being kept at the PIUs, the DG Budget will also retain
copies of the relevant supporting documents against which applications for disbursements are prepared.
Flow of Funds. The Pimpro/Pimbagpro at the CPMU/PPMIU/DPMIUs will be responsible for
authorizing the project expenditures in accordance with the agreed budgets under the existing government
procedures. They will submit their payment requests to their respective MOF Treasurer (KPKN) who
will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit payees' accounts at the latter's
respective banks and to debit the project Special Account. For expenditures in small amounts and for
activities managed by the units themselves (swakelola), sufficient cash advance funds will be provided by
KPKN to the Treasurer of the units. Each month or when required earlier, the units will account for their
expenditures and report to the KPKN who will replenish the respective account, based on the PIU
reports; the KPKN will the request reimbursement from the project Special Account.
The DG Budget will provide KPKN with guidelines and criteria for eligible project expenditures, in
accordance with the Loan Agreement. All the required forms necessary to submit payment request and
the relevant documentation are standard and are currently applicable to all foreign-funded projects.
KPKN will provide copies of the payment remittance orders (SPM) and other supporting documents to
the DG Budget regularly, against which the applications for disbursement will be prepared.
Financial Management System
The details of the project's financial management system, derived from the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) prepared by the Borrower, is outlined below. The Borrower and the project implementing
entities maintain financial management systems-including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
systems-adequate to ensure that they can provide to the Bank accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures.
Internal Control System. The Government's internal control system--consisting of an institutional
framework (project organization), accounting system, and control procedures-- has been reviewed.
included the adequacy of staff to carry out the project, and the adoption of internal controls by the
agencies involved under the project. DIKLUSEPORA and the DG of Community Health at the central
level and the Kanwil Dikbud at provincial level have adequate capacity and experience in implementing
World Bank projects. The limited experience and possibly inadequate levels of staff skills for carrying
out project activities in the districts agencies will be addressed at the beginning of the project through: (i)
assignment of skilled staff to the district agencies concerned from other, cooperating agencies; (ii)
issuance of implementation guidelines (Juklak) and technical guidelines (Juknis); (iii) provision of
training on project administration and management; and (iv) deployment of cons consultants who will
provide guidance during project implementation.
Project organization and Staffing. The project covers three provinces each with four participating



53
districts. Each district would have two Project Management and Implementation Units. One would be
at Dinas P&K TK 11 responsible for TK and EC D centers rehabilitation and construction; and, it will also
include Kandep Dikbud TK 11 who is responsible for other education components. The other would be at
Dinas Kesehatan TK 11 and be responsible for the nutrition component. At the provincial level, a
Provincial Project Management and Implementation Unit (PPMIU) will be established in the Kanwil
Dikbud. At the central level, a Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) will be established in the
DIKLUSEPORA. The CPMU includes a pimpro at Dikmas for the ECD activities implemented at the
center and a pimbagpro at DG Community Health for the ECD nutrition sub-component. The project
organization for the ECD project is consistent with the DIP budgeting mechanisms provided for the
project. The district PMIU is managed by Pimbagpro (project sub-manager) responsible to carry out
activities and execute expenditures as planned under the coordination of PPMIU at the provincial
Kanwil Dikbud who will act as the Pimbagpro (project sub-manager).
Each district PMIU will have a pimbagpro, Treasurer, Procurement Officer, Financial Officer, and
a small team of technical staff. The PPMIU and the CPMU in Jakarta will include positions of assistants
in finance, implementation, programming, and monitoring and evaluation. The qualification requirements
for Pimpro/Pimbagpro and Treasurer are as fol lows:
Pimpro/Pimbagpro                          Treasurer
*  Competent staff of the agency          *  Competent staff of the agency
•  University degree (SI) or three-year   *  Diploma (D2 or D3)
diploma (D3)
*  Minimum staff level III/c for Central, Ill/b  *  Minimum staff level 11/c
for Province and III/a for District
*  Attainment of project management course   *  Attainment of treasury course certificate or
certificate or equivalent                 equivalent
*  Two years working experience in        *  One year working experience in
government projects                       government projects
Financial Statements. The project financial statements showing the financial position of the project
during the fiscal year ended on March 31 will be comprised of the following:
(a) Financial Statement of Project Account: Each PMIU will maintain separate sub-project
accounting records, on cash basis, for each source of funds. The provincial PMIU and the CPMU
will maintain similar accounting records for activities executed at provincial and central levels,
respectively. All relevant supporting documents will be kept for annual audit and random
inspection by the Bank. The Dinas P&K will consolidate PMIUs' financial reports within the
district and submit to then to the provincial PPMIU on a quarterly basis. The PPMIU will
consolidate all districts reports. The overall financial project accounts will be prepared by CPMU,
i.e., Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF).
(b) Financial Statement of Special Account and SOE: The DG Budget, as custodian of the project
Special Account and responsible for disbursing funds from the Bank, will prepare the financial
statements of the Special Account and the SOE (Statements of Expenditures). The financial
statements in standard formats (developed from June 1992) will include the following:
*  Deposits and replenishments to special account received from the Bank
*  Withdrawals from the Special Account, including all SOEs (both from SA and other
accounts) used as the basis for submission of withdrawal applications
*  Remaining balance at the end of fiscal year
*  Reconciliation between amount received by SA and amount disbursed by the Bank
Financial Management Reporting Requiirements. As part of the monitoring system, progress of
financial status will be reported on quarterly basis. All PMIUs will submit progress reports two weeks



54
after the end of quarter. The PPMIU will compile and consolidate the provincial report for submission to
the CPMU where it will be integrated with the progress report at central level, into the overall
consolidated reports for submission to project management and the Bank one month after the end of
quarter.
All financial reports will follow the agreed formats provided in the PIP, which include the following:
*  Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF)
*  Progress Report of Project Expenditures and Financing (PRPEF)
* Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds (SSUF)
* Cost Variance Report (CVR)
* Unit Variance Report (UVR)
* Variance Analysis Report (VAR)
* Project 6 Month Forecast (P6MF)
* Contract Expenditures Report (CONREP)
* Non-Contracted Expenditures Report (NCONREP)
* Project Expenditures and Financing by District (LOCPEF) - consolidated report only
* Status of Loan Disbursements (STATLN) - consolidated report only
In order to facilitate preparation of the above reports, all expenditures will be recorded in the
"Worksheet for Project Expenditures and Financing" (WSPEF) format provided in the PIP. This would
be a detailed description of expenditures for each component, expenditure categories, financing sources
and the relevant implementing agencies.
Auditing Requirement. The quarterly progress reports would be used for the basis of preparing the
financial statement of project account (namely SPEF) to be submitted to the BPKP for annual audit. The
annual audit reports shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year, i.e., not later than September 30 each year.
The annual audit at district and provincial level would be carried out by the BPKP regional office, based
on the provincial consolidated account prepared by the PPMIU. The CPMU will prepare the overall
consolidated accounts combining the provincial account and the central level account for audit by BPKP
head office which will provide the audit opinion to the overall accounts on the basis of audit findings by
the BPKP regional office and its own audit activities. Likewise, the BPKP head office will also audit the
financial statement of Special Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOE) prepared by DG Budget. The
audits by BPKP auditors would be in accordance with the term of reference for the audit of project
accounts, Special Account, and SOEs acceptable to the Bank.



55
Annex 6 Attachment I
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Terms Of Reference For The Audit Of Project Account, Special Account And
Statement Of Expenditures
Objective
The objective of the audit of the project financial statement is to enable the auditor to express a
professional opinion on the financial position of Early Child Development Project at the end of each
fiscal year and of the funds received and expended for a certain accounting period ended (March 31 ,yy),
as reported in the financial statements of the Project Account, Special Account and Statement of
Expenditures.
The books of account provide the basis for preparation of the financial statement and are
established to reflect the financial transactions in respect of the project, as maintained by the project
implementing agencies under Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, District Local Governments, as
consolidated by the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) at DIKLUSEPORA, MOEC).
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standard of Auditing, and will
include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. In conducting
the audit, special attention should be paid to the :Following:
(a)  All external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which the
financing was provided. Relevant financing agreement is Loan No. _ _-IND (Loan Agreement);
(b)  Counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes of which they were
provided;
(c)  Goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(d)  All necessary supporting documents, records, and account have been kept in respect of all project
ventures (including expenditures reported via SOEs or SA). Clear linkages should exist between the
books of account and reports presented to the Bank.
(e)  Where Special Account have been used, they have been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant financing agreement.
(f)  The financial statement have been prepared in accordance with consistently applied International
Accounting Standards and give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the project at (mm/dd/yy)
and of resources and expenditures for the year ended on that date.
Project Account
The Project Account should include:
(a)  a Summary of Funds received, showing the World Bank, project funds from other donors, and



56
counterpart funds separately;
(b)  a Summary of Expenditures shown under the main project headings and by main categories of
expenditures, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; and
Special Accounts
In conjunction with the audit of the Project Account, the auditor is also required to audit the
activities of the Special Accounts associated with the project. The Special Accounts usually comprise:
*  deposits and replenishments received from the Bank;
* withdrawals from the special account; and
*  the remaining balances at the end of each fiscal year
The auditor must form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Bank's procedures and
the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The audit should examine the eligibility and correctness
of financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the end of such a period, the
operation and use of the SA in accordance with the financing agreement, and the adequacy of internal
controls for this type of disbursement mechanism. The auditor should also prepare a reconciliation
between the amounts shown as "deposited to the SA from the World Bank" and that shown as being
disbursed by the Bank.
Statement of Expenditures
The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid from SA and other account) used as the basis
for the submission of withdrawal applications. The auditor should apply such tests and control as the
auditor consider necessary under the circumstances. These expenditures should be carefully compared
for project eligibility with the relevant financing agreements, and with reference to the Project Appraisal
Document for guidance when considered necessary. Where ineligible expenditures are identified as
having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed against, these should separately noted by
the auditor. A schedule listing individual SOE withdrawal applications by specific reference number and
amount must be annexed to the audit report The total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be
part of the overall reconciliation of Bank disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fair presentation of the financial
statement. It should be received by the Bank no later than six months after the end of the accounting
period to which the audit refers. The auditor should submit the report to the borrower's implementing
ministry/agency who should then promptly forward one copy of the audited accounts and report to the
Bank.
The audit opinion on the Special Account should include a separate paragraph commenting on
the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which the
Bank can rely on SOEs as a basis for loan disbursement.



57
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the
auditor will:
(a)    give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
examined during the course of the audit;
(b)   identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls and make
recommendation for their improvement;
(c)   report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing agreement
and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such compliance;
(d)    communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a significant
impact on the implementation of the project, and
(e)    bring to the borrower's attention any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also
be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank.



58
Annex 6 Attachment 2
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Organizational Structure and Flow-of -Funds
ECD STEERING COMMITTEE
Center                         CPMU
PROJECT          SUB-PROJECT
MANAGER            MANAGER
(Dit Dikmas)     (Dit Community
Nutrition)
j..                _I
I                                             I
r - - - - -                         - - - - - -,
I                                                 I
|  |         ~GOV1ERNOR| 
rovince         ECD COORDINATION COMMITTEE
,              ~~~PPMIU 
ECD Sub-Project Manager            3
s . _ >      (Dikmas, Kanwil, MOEC)
*                                                 I
I                                                 I
*                                                 I
I                                                 I
DISTRICT HEAD/MAYOR
,      II 
.                                                     I
District/        ECD COORDINATION COMMITTEE
Munici aXitv                 DPMIU
ECD Sub-Project      Nutrition Sub-
Manager          Project Manager    
Kev:
_ _ _ +; Flow of Funds
- Coordination
EI       l>overnment administrative Level



Annex 6 Attachment 3
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Implementation Plan
ACTIVITIES                          1998               1999               2000                2001               2002                2003                2004
2 14 1 6 1 8 1012  24264 81012   2  4  6  810    2  4  6  8112  24                     81012   2  4  6  81012  2  4  6  81012
CENTRAL ACI-vITIES
Al Development of Policy Framework
A2  Quality Improvenents
A3 Developrnent of IEC Strategy
B   Complementary Food Programm
C   Institutional Capacity Building (Training,
workshop, upgrading & fellowship)
D   Impact Evaluation
E   Project Management. M&E (MIS)
F   Extemal Technical Audit
PROVINCIAL AClIVITIES
A   IEC strategy, Training and Program
B   Institutional Capacity (training and fellowships)
-    Provision of Equipment & Fumiture
C   Project Managernent, M & E (MIS)                                       , a
D Training for cadresn&tewchera
El Provision of TA (CES)
E2  Provision of TA (JEC & Training Specialist)
DISTRICTACTIVITES
A   Mapping
B   Land Acquisition
C   Construction /Rehabilitation of TK ECD etrs
D   Provision of Fumiture & Education Materials                                    E *.                        l
E   Contract of Kindergarten teachers
F   Training for cadres, teachers, and faciltators.
G   Institution Capacity Building (training, fellowships and
provision of equipment).
H   Project Management, M & E (MIS)                                           >     b       .- ^
I   IEC - Program implementation & campaigns
J   Maintenance



60
Annex 6 Attachment 4
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Construction Implementation Agreement For Rehabilitation/Construction Of TK/ Posyandu/BKB
NO.:
IN VILLAGE/KECAMATAN/KABUPATEN: ..................................
NO.:      /19
DATE:
A. We, the undersigned:
1. NAME          :
TITLE        : Pimbagpro           , Dinas
ADDRESS        :
hereafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY
Authorized to act on behalf of the Government Dati II as Employer, by assignment
letter dated       No.
2. NAME           :
TITLE           :                    (Ketua I, LKMD)
ADDRESS:
hereunder referred to as the SECOND PARTY
B.   Both parties agree:
a.Type of Works      :                            (Detail Plan and Drawing Attached)
b. Location          :
c.Description        :
d.Value of Agreement  :    Rpp              .
e. Execution period   :        calendar days from the date of signing the
agreement, without warranty period.
f. Payment          :      First payment of Rp.         (.... %) as initial advance.
Subsequent payments would be in accordance with work progress and
the expenditures incurred
g. Condition of execution: As stated in the attached General Condition of Agreement.
SECOND PARTY           FIRST PARTY          Acknowledged by
Ketua I LKMD           Pimbagpro             Village Head    Camat Head
(      )(........................ . . . . . . . ....  .. . . . . .. . . . . .   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Certified by:
District Construction Engineer
(. )



61
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
1.1  Duties of the Construction Engineer, acting for Dinas  Pimbagpro:
a.  Assist with preparation and certify the work plan of LKMD
b.  Supervise and certify implementation of works,
c.  Assist LKMD with expenditures reports, payment documentation for works performed,
d.  Accept completed works.
1.2   Duties of LKMD:
a.  Implement the works in accordance with the agreed specification/plan and Technical Guidelines for
Works provided by the Construction Engineer,
b.  Procure materials, equipment and hiring labors from the village, in accordance with the Technical
Guidelines,
c.  Provide local management (team leader, foreman, administration) and pay at appropriate cost..
1.3   The works shall not be sub-contracted.
1.4   The LKMD must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
1.5   Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the LKMD which obstructs or damages the works. Such an
event must be reported to the Construction Engineer within 7 days. The Construction Engineer may agree to
costs resulting therefrom, and prepare an agreement addendum if needed.
1.6   Differences of opinion that may occur between the LKMD and the Construction Engineer should be brought
for discussion with the District Construction Engineer. Settlement of such differences shall be decided by
the District Construction Engineer and be based on factual evidence and the Agreement. If they entail costs
justified in the opinion of the District Construction Engineer due to changes of original specifications, then
an Agreement addendum has to be prepared.
1.7   Non-compliance by LKMD
The LKMD shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 1.2 or 1.4 or does not obey the
warning of the Construction Engineer. The Construction Engineer shall give written notice to the BP-3 of
any non-compliance and send copy to the District Construction Engineer.
1.8   Sanctions.
a.  In relation to negligence of the LKMD under Clause 1.7, payments to the LKMD shall be postponed
until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the Construction Engineer in accordance with
the Agreement.
b.  If within 15 days of receiving a warning under Clause 1.7 the LKMD takes no corrective action, then
the Construction Engineer may propose to the Pimbagpro to appoint an alternative team leader or to
appoint a third party to carry out the works.
1.9   Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the Construction Engineer in
accordance with the Agreement or addendum if any.
I .10 Reporting byLKMD. The LKMD should prepare a progress report when requesting payment using a form
provided by the Pimbagpro. The report should include the progress of physical works including variation works, if
any, and financial report of the works.



62
Annex 7
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                                     Planned                         Actual
(US$000)
At Final PCD stage (10/97)                            $213.9                          $107.4
As of 6/30/98                                         $427.4                          $362.2
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                         Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                            24.0
First Bank mission (identification)                 06 /26 /1996                    05 /27 /1997
Appraisal mission departure                         05/20 /1998                     05 /14 /1998
Negotiations                                        05/ 18/1998                    06 /24 /1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       09 / 01 /1998                   10/01/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant No.TF029181
Bank staff consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Rozany Deen                                    Sr. Project Economist
Jacqueline Baptist                            Economist (Consultant)
Basilius Bengoteku                            Operations Officer
Bridie Champion                               Disbursement Officer
Nat Colletta                                  Manager, Social Development (Peer Reviewer)
Judith Evans                                  Early Child Development Specialist
Ellen Frede                                   Early Child Development Specialist (Consultant)
Jacques Van der Gaag                          Lead Economist (Peer Reviewer)
Titie Hadiyati                                Financial Management Specialist (Consultant)
Husein Abdul Hamid                            Statistician, (Consultant)
David Klaus                                   Principal Human Resources Specialist*
Preben Jensen                                 Sr. Procurement Advisor
Dorothy N. Judkins                            Sr. Staff Assistant
Samuel Lieberman                              Education and Health Sector Coordinator
Betty Mardanus                                GIS Specialist (Consultant)
Mieko Masuda                                  Project and Procurement Analyst (Consultant)
Karin Nordlander                              Sr. Counsel
Yogana Prasta                                 Sr. Disbursement Officer
Antonio Pereira                               Sr. Education Specialist*
Sachi Takeda                                  Economist*
Manuel Vera                                   Sr. Education Specialist
Nigel Wakeham                                 Architect (Consultant)
Mary Eming Young                              Sr. Public Health Specialist
* Former Task Team Leaders



63
ALnnex 8
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Documents In The Project File
A: Project Implementation Plan
Five Year Proposals from 6 districts in the Provirnces of West Java, South Sulawesi and Bali
Project COSTAB file*
Project Procurement Plan*
Project Implementation Plan*
Project Preparation Guide - including instruction manual for the Early Child Development Computer
Program for the Development of district proposals
Geographic Information System (GIS) maps illustrating sites, catchment areas, social indicators for two
project districts Pandeglang (West Java) and Buleleng (Bali) (March 1998, to be expanded to other
districts)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Abdul-Hamid, Husein (1997) "Design of an ECiD Decision Support Tool", The World Bank,
Washington DC
Baptist, Jacqueline and Deen, Rozany " Household demandfor early child development services" (in
process), The World Bank, Washington DC
Deen, Rozany, Parker, Mari, and Horiuchi, Kiyormi (1996) " Early Child Development Programs in
Indonesia: An assessment", The World Bank, Washington, DC, Typescript, 30 pages.
Eming-Young, Mary (1996) "Early Child Development: Investing in the Future ", The World Bank,
Washington DC
Hadiyati, Titie, and Prasta, Yogana (Junel998) "Financial Management System", Typescript. 5
pages+tables, flowchart, sample reporting forms.
Parker, Mari (1996) "Indonesia: Rationale and Options for Integrated Early Child Development", Draft
Paper, The World Bank, Washington DC
Saadah, F., Heywood, P. and Horiuchi, K (1996), " Undernutrition in Young Children", Indonesia
Watching Brief, Health Sector Patterns and Trends, The World Bank, Washington DC
Van der Gaag, Jacques and Tan, J-P (1997) "The Benefits of Early Childhood Development Program: An
Economic Analysis", The World Bank, Washington DC,



64
C. Other
Studies done during preparation
Atmodiwirjo, E., Tambunan, S. M., and Patmonodewo, M (1998) " Implementation of the Early Child
Development Project" Draft Report, Jakarta 1998
Bamett, S., Baptist J., Evans, J., Setijadi, Satoto A., Tanyong, A. (1997) "Early Child Development
Programs in Indonesia", Draft Report
Das Gupta, Mita and Moesim, Faisal (March 1998) "Village Level Management", Typescript 6 pages,
UNICEF, Jakarta
Frede, Ellen (1996) " Systems for Upgrading Current ECD Educators and Providing Continued Training
and Supervision" Typescript 5 pages
Frede, Ellen (1 997) " Field Report on ECD Program Practices", Typescript 7 pages
Tangyong, Agus F. (February 1998) "Socialization of the Communities for Early Child Development",
Ministry of Education and Culture, Jakarta, Indonesia
Wakeham, N (May 1998) " Construction of Kindergartens & BKB/Posyandu Centers - Implementation
Specialists Report"
Other references
Bundy, Don (1996) "Health and Early Child Development. " Paper prepared for World Bank's
conference on Early Child Development: Investing in the Future
Elfindri (April 1996) "Child Malnutrition in Indonesia. " Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies
(Australia) 32: 97-111,
Frankenberg, Elizabeth. ( December 1995) "Nutritional status in Indonesia: Evidence from the 1993
Indonesian family life survey ". Rand Working Paper Series / Labor and Population Program.
Pinstrup-Andersen, P., Burger, S., Habicht, J-P., and Peterson, K "Protein-Energy Malnutrition" in
Jamison, D., Mosley, W.H., Measham, A. R, Bobadilla, J-L Disease (1993) Control Priorities in
Developing Countries, Oxford Medical Publications
World Bank, (1996) Health, Nutrition and Population Statistics
World Bank, June 1998 (draft). " The Poor in Indonesia's Crisis : Impact of Crisis and Public
Interventions. "
World Bank, June 1998 (draft). "Supplement to the Report and Recommendation of the President on a
Proposed Indonesia Policy Reform Support Loan ".
* Electronic file available at EASED



CAS Annex B8
Annex 9                                                                            Generated: 07/07/98
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig         Frm Rev'd    Dev Obi        Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 460
Active Loans
ID-PE-36956   IBRD 42070   98   GOI                                   SAFE MOTHERHOOD              42.50        0.00             0.00         41.15         .32       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-41894   IBRD 4095A  1987  GOI                                   SUMATRA SEC EDUC             94.65        0.00             0.00         91.04        2.21       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3960    IBRD 3209A  1990                                        GAS UTILIZATION              24.15        0.00             0.00         14.98      15.02       13.44       S              S
ID-PE-3922    IBRD 3340A  1991  GOI                                   SULAWESI/IRIAN JAYA           4.17        0.00             0.00          2.17        2.15       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3977    IBRD 3246A  1991  GOI                                   THIRD JABOTABEK URB          13.41        0.00             0.00         11.69      11.69         .97       S              S
ID-PE-3916    IBRD 3501A  1992                                        SURALAYA THERMAL             88.17        0.00             0.00         71.55    148.78        54.09       U              S
POWER
ID-PE-3969    IBRD 3496A   1992  GOI                                  PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH          8.47        0.00             0.00          7.02        7.02       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3997    IBRD 3482A   1992  GOI                                  TELECOM IV                  148.13        0.00             0.00        129.95    119.93         0.00       HS            uS
ID-PE-3940    IBBD 3448A  1992  GO!                                   PRIMARY EDUC QUALITY         13.40        0.00             0.00         11.45      11.35        0.00       S              S
IMPROVE
ID-PE-3966    IBRD 3431A  1992  GOI                                   NON-FORMAL EDUC III           5.94        0.00              .27          3.98        4.25       -.25       S              S
ID-PE-3928    IBRD 3402A  1992  GOI                                   AGRICULTURAL FINANCI         39.06        0.00             0.00         38.86      38.87        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3990    IBRD 3629A  1993  GOI                                   WTR & SANI FOR LOW I         43.23        0.00             0.00         40.33      35.02       16.49       S              S   C7
ID-PE-4007    IBRD 3602A  1993  GO                                   POWER (CIRATA II)            61.44        0.00             0.00         57.81      53.34        0.00       U              S   en
ID-PE-4018    IBRD 3589A  1993  GOI                                   FLORES EARTHQUAKE RE          2.95        0.00             0.00          1.47        1.49       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3999    IBRD 3588A  1993  GOI                                   GROUNDWATER DEVT.            11.91        0.00             0.00         10.55      13.76         .33       U              U
ID-PE-4009    IBRD 3586A   1993  GOl                                  INTEGRATED PEST MGMT         13.28        0.00             0.00         10.84       10.34       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4006    IBRD 3579A   1993  GOI                                  E.INDONESIA KABUPATE         21.20        0.00             0.00         15.95       15.92       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3914     IBRD 3550A  1993  GOI                                  THIRD COMM HEALTH &          30.74        0.00             0.00         26.89      10.38        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3954    IBRD 3762A   1994  GOI                                  JAVA IRR IMP & W R M        108.27        0.00             0.00         98.45      42.86        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3910    IBRD 3761A  1994  GOI                                   SUMATERA & KALIMAN P        216.28        0.00             0.00        201.49    117.90         0.00       U              S
ID-PE-3937     IBRD 3755A  1994  GOI                                  INTEGRATED SWAMPS            38.42        0.00             0.00         34.54       12.35       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4017    IBRD 3754A  1994  GOI                                   UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR         33.12        0.00             0.00         29.58      10.63        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3890    IBRD 3749A  1994  GOI                                   SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U        110.67        0.00             3.67         93.00      54.79        1.89       S              S
ID-PE-4010    IBRD 3742A  1994  GOI                                   DAM SAFETY                   38.25        0.00             0.00         35.02      20.74        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4020    IBRD 3732A  1994  GOI                                   KABUPATEN ROADS V            25.59        0.00             0.00         18.19        8.19       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3998    IBRD 3726A  1994  GOI                                   SURABAYA URBAN              113.14        0.00             0.00        106.38       67.84       4.96       S              S
ID-PE-3952    IBRD 3721A  1994  GOI                                   SKILLS DEVELOPMENT           10.24        0.00             0.00          8.04      12.95        5.54       S              S
ID-PE-3945    IBRD 3712A  1994  GOI                                   HIGHWAY SECTOR II           196.44        0.00             0.00        180.37    146.21         0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3985    IBRD 3658A  1994  GOI                                   WTRSHED CONSERVATION         44.22        0.00             0.00         43.31      19.36        0.00       HU             U
ID-PE-3860    IBRD 3464A  1994  GOI                                   TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE         27.12        0.00             0.00         24.00       18.59       0.00       S             HS
ID-PE-39754   IBRD 39136  1995                                        TA FOR INFRA. II             28.00        0.00             0.00         24.46      13.26        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3965     IBRD 39056  1995  GOI                                  HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT         87.00        0.00             0.00         75.42      13.42        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3965    IBRD 3905S  1995  GOI                                   HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT          1.00        0.00             0.00          0.00      13.42        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4001    IBRD 39046  1995  GOI                                   TELECOM SECTOR MODER        325.00        0.00             0.00        296.71    121.71         0.00       HS            HS
ID-PE-34891   IBRD 38886  1995  GOI                                   VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU         47.10        0.00             0.00          3.69         .79       0.00       HS            HS
ID-PE-3968    IBRD 38876  1995                                        BOOK & READING DEV          130.40        0.00             0.00        113.42        8.52       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3968    IBRD 3887S  1995                                        BOOK & READING DEV            2.10        0.00             0.00            .10       8.52       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3972    IBRD 38866  1995  GOI                                   AG. RESEARCH II              61.00        0.00             0.00         53.06      24.81        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3951    IBRD 3854A  1995  GOI                                   KALIMANTAN UDP               77.43        0.00             0.00         65.85      45.34        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3979    IBRD 3845A  1995  GOI                                   RURAL ELECT II              252.09        0.00             0.00        203.03    176.85         0.00       U              S
ID-PE-3988    IBRD 3825A  1995  GOI                                   PHRD II                      40.57        0.00             0.00         36.81        8.65       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4019    IBRD 3801A  1995  GOI                                  ACCOUNTANCY DEV II            18.64        0.00             0.00         17.33      14.15        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-3984     IBRD 3792A  1995  GOI                                  LAND ADMINISTRATION          56.45        0.00             0.00         49.52      15.19        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4016    IBRD 40540  1996  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA                 STRATEGIC URB. RDS I         86.90        0.00             0.00         76.59      20.39        0.00       S              S
ID-PE-4004     IBRD 4043A  1996  GOI                                  HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III         56.80        0.00             0.00         50.78        -.99       0.00       S              S
ID-PE-37097   IBRD 4042A  1996  GOI                                   E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.             96.50        0.00             0.00         93.77        9.34       0.00       S              S
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



CAS Annex B8
Genermld: 07/07/98
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                           IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj            Imp Prog
ID-PE--41896   IBRD 4030A  1996  GOI                                 HR CAPACITY BUILDING        19.31        0.00             0.00         19.11       6.11       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-39312   IBRD 4017A  1996  GOI                                  SECOND E. JAVA UDP         129.64        0.00            0.00         128.43      74.54       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-4014    IBRD 4008A  1996  GOI                                 KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP          18.47        0.00            0.00          18.44       4.20       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4011    IBRD 4007A  1996  GOI                                  SULAWESI AGRI AREA          23.97        0.00             0.00         22.63       1.17       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4008    IBRD 3984A  1996  GOI                                 NUSA TENGGARA DEV.           24.80        0.00            0.00          23.86       3.97       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-39643   IBRD 39810  1996  GOI                                  STD/AIDS                    24.80        0.00             0.00         22.79      14.75       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-4003    IBRD 3979A  1996  GOI                                  SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA        54.40        0.00            0.00          51.30      21.81       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4021    IBRD 3978A  1996  GOI                                  POW. TRANS & DIST II       362.74        0.00             0.00        348.96    176.50         .30       U             U
ID-PE-3978    IBRD 3972A  1996  GOI                                  IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV        40.08        0.00            0.00          35.92      21.55       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-42882   IBRD 41980  1997  GOI                                  RENW. ENER SMAL PW P        66.40        0.00             0.00         66.40       1.34       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-49051   IBRD 41940  1997                                       BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P        16.40        0.00             0.00         15.31       1.21       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-40195   IBRD 41930  1997  GOI                                  QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED        71.20        0.00             0.00         66.26        .73       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-36047   IBRD 41550  1997  GOI                                  BALI URBAN INFRAST.        110.00        0.00             0.00        106.80       2.34       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-35544   IBRD 41320  1997  GOI                                  SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS          20.00        0.00             0.00         20.00       2.32       0.00       U             U
ID-PE-42540   IBRD 41250  1997                                       IODINE DEF. CONTROL         28.50        0.00             0.00         26.46        .76       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-4026    IBRD 41060  1997  GOI/PERUMKA                          RLWY EFFICIENCY            105.00        0.00             0.00        105.00      12.67       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-36053   IBRD 4105A  1997  GOI                                  SULAWESI UDP II            149.58        0.00             0.00        146.70      39.05       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-40521   IBRD 41000  1997  GOI                                 VILLAGE INFRA II            140.10        0.00            0.00         103.53      23.84       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3987    IBRD 4062A  1997                                       C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.       101.14        0.00             0.00        100.10      16.07       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-45337   IBRD 43300  1998  GOI                                  KECAMATAN DEV FUND         225.00        0.00            0.00         225.00       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-39644   IBRD 43080  1998  GOI                                 W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.          103.50        0.00            0.00         103.50       0.00       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-3993    IBRD 43070  1998  GOI                                  N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS       234.00        0.00            0.00         234.00       0.00       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-37095   IBRD 43060  1998  GOI                                 MALUKU REG. DEV              16.30        0.00            0.00          16.30       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-36048   IBRD 43050  1998  GOT                                  CORAL REEF MGM REHAB         6.90        0.00            0.00           6.90       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-40061   IBRD 42900  1998  GOI                                  BENGKULU REG DEV            20.50        0.00            0.00          20.50        .40       0.00       S             S
ID-PE-55755   IBRD 42550  1998  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA                BANKING REFORM ASST.        20.00        0.00             0.00         18.25       -.58       0.00       S             U
ID-PE-48715   IBRD 42440  1998                                       IIDP                        34.50        0.00            0.00          33.25       1.42       0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                         5,162.77        0.00             3.94     4,706.29  1,953.79        97.76
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  468.15           18,322.93           18,791.08
of which has been repaid:                   0.00            7,817.68            7,817.68
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                5,229.41           10,543.25           15,772.66
Amount sold                      :                 0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed                :             4,706.29               38.05            4,744.34
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Informnation System (OIS)



67
Annex 10
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Indonesia at a glance                                                     1/28/98
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              East  middla-
ndonesia      Asia  incomie      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (milbons)                        197.1     1,726    1,125    I
GNP percapita 1996 (US$)                             1,090      890    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bi/bons US$)                               213.4     1,542    1,967
T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         1.7       1.3      1.4
Labor forme (%)                                        2.5       1.3      1.8    I GNP                            Gross
per                      -~ pnm
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulaton)               11 
Urban population (% of total populahton)               36        31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       64        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ive bifths)                51        40       41               Access to We water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             11
Access to safe water (% of populaton)                  62         49      78
Illiteracy (% of,popubation age 15+)                  I         17                   -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school ge population)  11i       117     104
Male                                                117       120      105                Lower-middle4ncome group
Female                                              113       116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1981i     1995    1996
GDP (bilhons US$)                            32.1    87.2      201.2   225.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               23.7    26.1        31.1     31.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP           24.0    23.0        26.4    26.2              Openness of economy
Gross domestc savings/GDP                   26.6    28.6        32.3    33.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                      24.7    25.6
Current account balance/GDP                                     -3.5    -3.6
Interest payments/GDP                         1.0      2.3       2.5      2.3     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               35.8    42.1       61.8    57.1
Total debt service/exports                                      30.1    36.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                                55.4
Present value of debt/exports                                           209.6                  Indebtedness
197545  1986-96    19S5       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                               -Indonesia
GOP                                  7.0      7.9      8.2       7.6      6.6               Lower-middla-ncome group
GNP per capita                       4.3      6.1      5 7       5.8      5.1
Exports of goods and services       -1.0      8.9      8 6       6.3      7.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    19#11      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                      | Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                  30.2    23.2       17.2    16.3    20T
Industry                                    33.5      35.9      41.5    42.7
Manufacturing                               9.8    16.0       24.2    25.2      1
Services                                    36.3    40.9        41.4     41.0 
Private consumption                         64.3    59.6        59.9    59.2             D1   92   03   54   95   go
General govemment consumption                 9.0     11.8       7.9      7.7              -GOI              GDP
Imports of goods and services               21.0    2C.5        25.2    24.9
197645  198646        1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   4.2      3.4       4.2      1 9     30
Industry                                     7.0      11.9      10.4    1015        1
Manufacturing                              14.5     11.2      10.8     110    1 20
Services                                     9.0      11.0       7.7      6.9
Private consumption                          10.0      7.2       9.6      7.4
General govemment consumption                10.5      4.4       1.3      38       0
Grossdomesticinvestment                      12.1     10.8      135      11.8            9S   92   93   .4   98   96
Imports of goods and services                8.8      9.4       15.8      9.6 -6e                          -
Gross national product                        6.5      7.9       7.4      7.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If date are missing, the diamond wil
be incomplete.



68
Annex 10
Indonesia: Early Child Development Project
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996    1
Domeslic pHces                                                                     Inftlation (%)
(% change)                                                                        1,0
Consumer prices                              19.1      4.7        9.4      8.0   I
Implicit GDP deflator                        11.2      4.3        9.4      8.7    I                          V.
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                          o
Current revenue                                       19.2       15.5     15.3             91   92   93   94   ss   9s
Current budget balance                          .      6.0        6.4       ..   |GPdef.                         C
Overall surplus/defticit                        .      -3.2      -0.2      1.0
TRADE
1976    1988       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                 18,823    44,792
Fuel                                               12,804     8,638                    I
Rubber                                               714      1,554                                   - 4000 1
Manufactures                                  ..   2,287    23,487               =0.000
Total imports (cif)                            .. 14,058       41,286200
Food                                         ..      812        868
Fuel and energy                               ..    2.870     3,841              i0osoe
Capital goods                                 ..    5,394    16,712 
Export prioe index (1987=100)                   ..     121       137                      90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                           85       127
Terms of trade (1987=100)                              143        108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions US$S                                                                      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..   53,154   58,317
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..   47,871   52,822        99[ !              93i         r  i
Resource balance                                .        ..    5,283    5,495    1  ij       I  j
Net income                                      ..      ..    -,799   -68094                    I !    i
Net current transfers                           ..      ..   -6,471   -7,470   .
Current account balance,
before ofrfcial capital transfers             ..       ..   -6987   -8,069    -3
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..    9,548   11967
Changes in net reserves                         ..      ..   -2,561   -3.898   1  l
Memo:.
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)            592   13,184    26,139   27,519
Conversion rate (localUS$)                  415.0  1,110.6    2,248.6  2,342.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       11,498   36,715    124,398  129,033                          A
IBRI                                         57    3,590    12.503   11,139                         11139 a
IDA                                        318       844       756      736              G               736  D
Total debt service                          1,060    5.823    16,419   21,462                 j37s
IBRD                                          2      384      1,875    2,249
IDA                                           2       12        26.      26
E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                28911
Offical grants                               ..       ..       249       190
Officlalcredioro                            515      980      1,115     -805
Private creditors                         1,749      154      2,314    6,971
Foreign direct investment                     ..      ..    4.348    7,960
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..    4.873    3,099                    F
World Bank program                                                                j0542
Commitments                                311    1,068       1,312    1,194     A-IBRD                       E-Bltateral
Disbursements                               164     T77       1.046     905       8 gIDA    D- Other multlatenl  F- Private
Principal repayments                          0      133       975    1,429      C -IMF                       G -Short-erm
Net flows                                   164      644        69      -523    i
Interest payments                             3      262       926      846
Not transfers                              160       382      -867   -1,370
Development Economics                                                                                                1J28/98
Note: Government finance and trade fiscal year (April to March).



MAI SECTION



V    AN                             io                                     1 
Bcn~ce                                   Soth hun S2              ISONSA
13                                                                               PH UPPIN                    EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJEC~1 
edon    ALAYJ                       PRUN                                                 V                          Provinces&overed Under the Project
14~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4
16
3~~~~~~~~~~'nink                                                                                                                                  PaifcO7a
4       18~~~~~~~~~27M/   41(2 taan                                             al      ~      -~~
Inia           19koo                                                                                             Z~    e>1       aagtry      J8 4/1tc 2                     Jypr
Oca7                '~Pima 
8           2N    /1,1*/6~                                                            0"'~Isl
9~ ~~e~kt~< 23i                                                                                1   edritm
W      24~~~~~Bdo                        o  Sa2
95 ~ ~ ~ apngUuaPnag                                                                                  lad                 1
2  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Novie~~2
14UR nano  ee
1 12K I Jokerlo  1 , Kehnreeton To oh  Ba



