Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4378 IND
Loan Agreement
(Early Child Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4378 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
Page  2
meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means  a   person who, on account of the execution of  
Part A.4 (a) and (b) of  the  Project,  has  or  would  have  his  or  her: (i) 
standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, 
land (including premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; 
(b)
“BAPPEDA Tk. I” means the Development Planning Agency established and 
operating within a Province; 
(c)
“BAPPEDA Tk. II” means the Development Planning Agency established and 
operating within a District; 
(d)
“Bina Keluarga Balita” or “BKB” means the Borrower’s parent-child 
education program; 
(e)
“BKKBN” means the Borrower’s National Family Planning Coordinating Board; 
(f)
“Community Participation Manual” means the technical manual to assist 
LKMDs in the implementation of Part A.4 (a) and (b) of the Project through the 
description of, inter alia, the criteria for the selection of Project Villages, 
procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting requirements, the 
relevant Project Performance Indicators, Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, 
environmental criteria applicable to the design of ECD centers and TKs, and 
maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under Part A.4 (a) and (b) of the 
Project, as such Community Participation Manual may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank;
(g)
“Coordination Committees” means the committees maintained at the 
Provincial and District levels in accordance with paragraphs 3 (a) and 4 (a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(h)
“DINAS Kesehatan” means the Provincial and District health offices; 
(i)
“DINAS P dan K” means DINAS Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan, the Provincial and 
District offices for education and culture; 
(j)
“District” means a Kabupaten or a Kotamadya; 
(k)
“ECD” means Early Child Development; 
(l)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
April 1 and ending March 31;
(m)
“Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement” means the guidelines 
prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 8 (c) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and in the Community Participation Manual, and as such Guidelines may be 
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank; 
(n)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement prepared by the Borrower 
for Project implementation, set out in the Joint Decree of the Director-General of 
Out-of-School Education, Youth and Sports, Ministry of Education and Culture, No. 
45/E/MS/1998; Director-General of Primary and Secondary Education, Ministry of 
Education and Culture, No. 246/C/KEP/DS/1998; Director-General for Regional 
Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, No. 050-104/SK/BANGDA/1998; Director-General 
for Community Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, No. 55-VI/TAHUN/1998; 
Director-General of Community Health, Ministry of Health, No. 758/BM/DJ/SKB/VI/ 1998; 
Director-General for Social Welfare, Ministry of Social Affairs, No. 191/DIR/ 
BKS/VI/1998; Director-General of Religious Affairs, Ministry of Religious Affairs, No. 
E/181/1998; and Deputy for Family Welfare, BKKBN, No. 105/HK104/E5/1998;
(o)
“Implementation Guidelines” means the guidelines prepared by the Borrower 
for Project implementation, including the description of: selection criteria for the 
Page  3
location of ECD centers and TKs; teacher training; employment of contract teachers; 
awarding of fellowships; procurement procedures; disbursement procedures; accounting; 
auditing; and monitoring and evaluation;
(p)
“KANDEP Agama” means the District office of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Religious Affairs; 
(q)
“KANDEP Dikbud” means the District office of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education and Culture; 
(r)
“Kantor PMD” means the District office of the Directorate General of 
Community Development of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs; 
(s)
“LKMD” means a village community resilience council; 
(t)
“Management and Implementation Units” means the units maintained at the 
Provincial and District level in accordance with paragraphs 3 (b) and 4 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(u)
“Pimbagpro” means a Project sub-manager at the District level; 
(v)
"Pimpro" means a Project manager at the Central and Provincial level; 
(w)
“Posyandu” means an integrated health service delivery post;  
(x)
“Project District” means a District selected by the Borrower, in 
consultation with the Bank, for participation in the Project; 
(y)
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Bali, South 
Sulawesi and West Java;
(z)
“Project Village” means a village within a Project Province selected for 
participation in Part A.4 (a) and (b) of the Project; 
(aa)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(bb)
“Steering Committee” means the committee maintained at the Central level 
in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(cc)
“Taman Kanak-Kanak” or “TK” means the Borrower’s kindergarten programs. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty one 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia, or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
Page  4
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, education, engineering, financial, health and nutrition practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific Region
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Community civil works:
100%
(a) under Part A.4 (a) (i)
  700,000
    and (b) (i) of the 
    Project
(b) under Part A.4 (a) (ii)
4,500,000
    and (b) (ii) of the
    Project
(2)
Goods
1,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Food, including 
100% of foreign
distribution costs,
expenditures,
under Part A.5 of 
100% of local
the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(a)  FY 1998/1999
       2,100,000
and 80% of local
Page  7
expenditures for
(b) FY 1999/2000
5,300,000
other items procured
locally
(c) FY 2000/2001
3,200,000
(4)
Fellowships and
1,700,000
100%
training
(5)
Services of
  200,000
100%
contract
teachers
(6)
Project
  400,000
100%
management
(7)
Consultants'
1,300,000
100% 
services and
studies
(8)
Unallocated
1,000,000
TOTAL
      21,500,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Project management” means honoraria, office equipment and 
materials required for the Project Coordination Committees, and Management and 
Implementation Units in the management of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
payments under Category (1) until the Implementation Guidelines and the 
Community Participation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, have been issued by the 
Borrower.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i)
civil works and goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent  
each;
(ii)   fellowships and training; 
(iii)
services of contract teachers; 
(iv)
Project management; 
(v)
studies; and 
(vi)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less 
than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants 
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  8
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i) protecting 
children between the ages of six months and two years against the effects of 
malnutrition and enhancing such children’s growth and development; and (ii) improving 
the access to and the quality and utilization of the Borrower’s Early Child 
Development programs in the Borrower’s provinces of Bali, South Sulawesi and West 
Java.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Early Child Development Program Support 
1.
Strengthening the Borrower’s policy framework for Early Child Development 
programs through the review and revision of Early Child Development policies in light 
of experience, including the provision of consultants’ services.
2.
Improving the quality of the Borrower’s Early Child Development programs 
through:
(a)
the review and simplification of the BKB modules of program activities, 
and testing of the proposed changes; 
(b)
the design and implementation of an integrated training program for 
Posyandu and BKB volunteers; 
(c)
the development and implementation of in-service training programs for TK 
teachers; 
(d)
the review and evaluation of the TK curriculum; and 
(e)
the design and evaluation of assessment tests.
3.
Increasing the demand for Early Child Development programs through:
(a)
the development of an information, education and communication (IEC) 
program including IEC strategies, plans and messages;
(b)
the production and distribution of IEC materials and prototypes for local 
adaptation; and
(c) 
the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of IEC campaigns and 
activities.
4.
Expanding access to Early Child Development programs through:
(a)
the construction of: (i) about 340 Early Child Development centers for 
Posyandu and BKB; and (ii) about 230 TKs adapted to rural or urban contexts;
(b)
the rehabilitation of: (i) about 50 existing Early Child Development 
facilities; and (ii) about 110 existing TKs;
(c)
the provision of educational materials, toys and equipment;
(d)
the carrying out of a program of employment of about 460 contract 
teachers for TKs; and
(e)
the provision of training to volunteers and teachers, including the 
upgrading of the skills of about 1255 TK teachers to the D-II level. 
5.
Implementation of a program of emergency food assistance to enhance the growth 
and development of children between the ages of six months and two years by providing 
complementary food to prevent malnutrition.
Page  9
Part B:
Early Child Development Management and Capacity-Building
1.
Strengthening Early Child Development management at the Provincial and District 
levels through:
(a)
the assessment and the strengthening of the capacity at the Central, 
Provincial and District levels to implement the Project, including: (i) the provision 
of fellowships and training to key Project staff in identified skill needs, including 
developmental psychology, early child education, education planning, statistics, 
community health, nutrition and Project management; and (ii) the provision of 
consultants’ services;
(b)
the conduct of annual planning and budget workshops involving the 
District offices of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Health, the 
Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, and BKKBN under the 
coordination of BAPPEDA Tk. I and BAPPEDA Tk. II, including the provision of 
consultants’ services;
(c)
the carrying out of an impact evaluation study of TK education and of 
Posyandu and BKB interventions;
(d)
the carrying out of studies of program initiatives to address Early Child 
Development needs; and
(e)
the provision of office equipment and materials to BKKBN, DINAS P danK, 
KANDEP Dikbud, DINAS Kesehatan, KANDEP Agama and Kantor PMD at the District level.
2.
Strengthening the capacity for Project management through:
(a)
the preparation and carrying out of a program for the periodic reporting, 
monitoring and evaluation of the six-year and annual technical and budgetary plans;
(b)
the carrying out of technical audits; and
(c)
the provision of office equipment, furniture, and materials to Project 
Coordination Committees, and Management and Implementation Units.
*           *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
Page  10
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
Page  11
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after June 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Page  12
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Educational materials which are of a proprietary nature or must be procured from 
a particular supplier may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equi-valent of $200,000 or more and (ii) the first contract for goods or works, 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, in each Fiscal Year in a 
District, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under direct contracting 
and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Borrower shall 
provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Page  13
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by contract teachers under Part A.4 (d) of the Project 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain at the Central level until completion of the Project 
a Central ECD Steering Committee, responsible for overall guidance in the 
implementation of the Project, with membership and terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank. 
Page  14
2.
The Borrower shall maintain at the Central level until completion of the Project 
a Central ECD Project Management Unit, responsible for overall coordination of 
inter-sectoral activities at the Central level, with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank and with adequate resources and competent staff in adequate numbers, 
including a Pimpro.
3.
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1998, establish at the 
Provincial level, in each of the Project Provinces, and, thereafter, maintain until 
completion of the Project: 
(a)
a Provincial Coordination Committee, responsible for the coordination of 
Project activities at the Provincial level, with membership and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)
a Provincial Project Management and Implementation Unit, responsible for 
the management and implementation of Project activities at the Provincial level, with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with adequate resources and competent 
staff in adequate numbers, including a Pimbagpro.
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1998, establish at the District 
level, in each of the Project Districts, and, thereafter, maintain until completion of 
the Project: 
(a)
a District Coordination Committee, responsible for coordinating Project 
activities in the Project District, with membership and terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank; and 
(b)
District Project Management and Implementation Units at DINAS Kesehatan 
and DINAS P dan K, responsible for management and implementation of Project activities 
in the Project District, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with 
adequate resources and competent staff in adequate numbers, including Pimbagpros. 
5.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Agreement and the Implementation Guidelines, as such Agreement and Guidelines may be 
amended from time to time in consultation with the Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 1999, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank for review and comment, an annual Early Child Development work 
program for Project activities at the Central level and in each of the Project 
Provinces for the next Fiscal Year; and
(b)
thereafter, carry out said program taking into account the Bank’s views 
thereon.
7.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than January 31, 2002, furnish the recommendations of the 
studies to the Bank for comments; and
(b)
not later than July 31, 2002, prepare an action plan for the 
implementation of policy revisions, acceptable to the Bank, and promptly thereafter 
carry out such action plan.
8.
In carrying out Parts A.4 (a) and (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, select Project Villages in 
accordance with the provisions of the Community Participation Manual; 
(b)
cause LKMDs to carry out the works in accordance with paragraph 9 of this 
Schedule and in accordance with the Community Participation Manual;
(c)
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Community Participation 
Manual is made available to the LKMDs and applied in the carrying out of works, and is 
periodically updated, if needed, in agreement with the Bank; 
Page  15
(d)
select locations for the construction of TKs and other Early Child 
Development facilities in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, and take 
measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to 
avoid the displacement of said villagers; 
(e)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 
is unavoidable, before carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition 
or displacement, make available to such villagers compensation in accordance with the 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
and
(f)
in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by 
such works, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation 
and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Bank for 
approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected 
Persons shall 
have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
9.
In carrying out Parts A.4 (a) and (b) of the Project the Borrower shall, through 
the relevant Pimpro, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works the District 
construction engineer shall have completed a technical review of such works and shall 
have confirmed the following:
(a)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design in accordance with the Community 
Participation Manual;
(b)
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 8 (c) of this Schedule; and
(c)
an agreement and an implementation plan for the works have been prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of the Community Participation Manual. 10.
In 
carrying out Part A.4 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contract teachers 
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. 11.
In carrying out Parts A.4 
(e) and B.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall select candidates for fellowships 
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
12.
The Borrower shall employ consultants in accordance with Section II of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement:
(a)
in carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, not later than July 1, 2001; and
(b)
in carrying out the Project (other than Part A.1 of the Project), not 
later than April 1, 1999.   
13. 
The Borrower shall carry out the training under the Project in accordance with 
training programs acceptable to the Bank.
14.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 1, 2000 and September 1, 2002, reports integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Page  16
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 1, 2000 and November 1, 2002, or such 
later dates as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Performance Indicators 
A.
Early Child Development Program Support 
1.
By the end of the Project, scores in standardized achievement tests of students 
in Project TKs and BKBs have increased significantly. 
2.
By the end of the Project, there is at least a 80% utilization of functioning 
ECD facilities in Project Villages. 
3.
By the end of the fourth year of Project implementation, at least 75% of the 
target number of TK teacher support clusters are meeting on a regular basis. 
4.
By the end of the fourth year of Project implementation, there is at least a 60% 
improvement from the baseline in the participation rate at BKB/Posyandu meetings. 
5.
By the end of Fiscal Year 2001/2002 80% of children receiving complementary 
feeding under the Project have improved the weight for their age as indicated on the 
growth monitoring chart (Kartu Menuju Sehat/KMS). 
6.
By the end of the third year of Project implementation, a satisfactory level of 
community participation has been reached as evidenced by the signing of at least 70% 
of targeted annual contracts with the LKMD for the construction of ECD facilities in 
Districts included in the first phase, and at least 70% by the end of the fourth year 
of Project implementation in Districts included in the second phase.
B.
Early Child Development Management Capacity Building 
1.
By the end of the third year of Project implementation, at least 85% of 
fellowships have been awarded. 
2.
By the end of each year of Project implementation, at least 85% of ECD work 
plans (as measured in terms of agreed targets and budgeted expenditures) have been 
implemented.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,100,000 until  the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
Page  17
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project,  shall  equal  the  equivalent  of  twice the amount  of the Authorized  
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  18
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
