                                                                                                                   92431
Early Child Development                                                                                            April 5, 2006
                             IBRD Loan Amount               10.8 million (current pilot project);
                             (USD):                         115 million (project to be negotiated April
                                                            2006)
                             Start Date:                    10/16/1998
                             Closing Date:                  31/12/2006
                             Implementing Agency:           Directorate General of Non-formal Education,
                                                            MoNE
                             Status:                        Satisfactory
 
 
Background
 
During the past seven years, the World Bank has piloted an integrated Early Child Development
(ECD) pilot centers in 12 poor districts in the provinces of Bali, West Java, and South Sulawesi.
Specifically the project aims to protect children from six months to 2 years against malnutrition,
enhancing growth and development and improving access to and quality of the Government’s
ECD programs.
 
The project components cover the construction and rehabilitation of integrated facilities offering
early childhood education services jointly with health service (Posyandu) and parenting (BKB)
activities – this also includes equipment/educational materials, training, and capacity building and
management at the central level. Most of the teachers have received pre-service training for an
average of 2 years.
 
Results to Date

       Participation of parents and children in ECD service in the target areas has significantly increased.
       Impact studies show that children participating in the integrated Early Child Development pilot project for two years had higher
       scores for school readiness at age six.
       The project helped facilitate important institution building, including the establishment of Early Child Education directorate in the
       Ministry of National Education, and new Early Childhood Education and Development units and forums at national and sub-
       national levels, and most importantly, the inclusion of ECD into the newly passed Education Act.

Upcoming Early Childhood Education and Development (ECED) Project

Following up the success of the ongoing project, the Government of Indonesia has requested further support from the Bank. Negotiation of
a new ECED project for US$115 million is expected in April 2006. Bank loan funds will be supplemented with Dutch grant funds.


More information:
  Early Child Development: Project Documents
  Early Childhood Education and Development: Project Documents

Back to top
 
