Report No. 1479-CM
Cameroon  Appraisal of a
Rural Development Fund Project
May 26, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This clocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their officiai duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$                =  CFAF 245 /1
CFAF 1,000         = US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000     = US$4,081.63
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare (ha)       =  2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)     = 0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)      =  2.204 pounds
1 metric ton (t)     =  2,204.6 pounds
1 liter (1)          =  1.057 U.S. quart
ABBREVIATIONS
AES         Agricultural Extension Service
APMU        Agricultural Projects Management Unit (IDA)
CAMDEV      Cameroon Development Corporation
CD          Community Development Service
DEP         Direction des Etudes et 'Projects
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Coope:ration (France)
FED         Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FONADER     Fonds National de Developpement Rural
FSAR        Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales
HS          Hydrogeological Service
IRAF        Institut de Recherche Agronomique et Forestiere
LES         Livestock Exension Service
ONAREST     Office National de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
RDF         Rural Development Fund
RES         Rural Engineering Service
RMWA        Regional Mission in Western Africa
SEMRY       Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture
de Yagoua
SOCAPALM    Societe Camerounaise de P'almeraies
SODECAO     Societe de Developpement du Cacao
SODECOTON   Societe de Developpement du Coton au Cameroun
SODEPA      Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions
Animales
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
_l  Floating rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............       ..     .................   i-v
I.   INTRODUCTION .. e .                                . . ........... *   ... . . . ............  1
II. BACKGROUND ........ ...1
A. General. .    l
B. The Agricultural Sector                       .. .                    2
C.   Institutions  .......................................               3
D.   AgriculturaJ Development Strategy             .    .     .          4
IllI.   THE PROJECT  .................. ......................                   5
A.   Project Area and Summary Description ...............                5
B.   Detailed Features ..................................                6
C. Organization and Management .13
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .15
A. Project Costs                   . . .15
B. Proposed Financing                  . . .15
C. Cost Recovery                   . . .17
D. Procurement                    . . .18
E. Disbursement                   . . .18
F. Accounts and Audit                  . . .19
V.   FARMERS' BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
FOR GOVERNMENT .l.. ....19
A.   Farmers' Benefits from Productive Subprojects                      19
B.   Financial Implications for Government .20
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS    .                 .21
A. Productive Subprojects    ..21
B.   Village Water Supply .................21.............    21
C.   Institutions ................. ......................    22
D.   Risks .......................................... .    22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..                                 23
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only 'n the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without Wor1d Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Project Area
2.   The Institutional Framework
Table 'L -  Resources and Outlays oi FONADER
3.   Bottomland Development
Table . -  Schedule of Implementation and Expenditures
Table 2  -  Civil Works Costs
Table 3  -  Farm Family Budget - :addy Production
Table 4  -  Economic Price of Paddy - 1978 to 1980-85
Table 5; -  Economic Costs and Benefits
4.   Market Gardening
Table 1  -  Farm Family Budget
Table 2  -  Cash Flow Projections
Table 3  -  Economic Costs and Benlefits
Appendix 1  -  Guidelines for Crecdit Subproject Documentation
Procedures
Appendix 2  - Applied Research irLto Onion Production and
Storage - Terms of Reference
5.   Stall Fattening
Table 1  -  Cost Summary
Table 2  -  Farm Family Budget
Table 3  -  Cash Flow Projections
Table 4  -  Economic Costs and Benefits
6.   Small Dams
Table 1 -  General Characteristics
Table 2  -  Schedule of Expenditures
Table 3  -  Labor Requirements
Table 4  -  Costs of Labor Requiremrents
Table 5  -  Equipment, Materials, and Operating Costs
Appendix 1  -  Health Survey - Terins of Reference
7.   Village Wells., Pumps and Boreholes
Table 1  - Water Points Requirements and 1977-1981 Development
Program
Table 2  -  Schedule of Implementat,ion and Costs
Table 3  -  Open Well Brigades - Equipment and Vehicles -
Investment Costs



- 3 -
Table 4  -  Open Well Brigades---Materials Costs and Operatiîg
Costs - Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5  -  Open Well Brigades - Personnel
Table 6  -  Pump Installation and Maintenance - Schedule of
Investment and Operating Costs
Table 7  -  Borehole Unit - Equipment and Vehicles
Table 8  -  Borehole Unit - Operating Costs - Vehicles and
Equipment - and Materials Costs
Table 9  -  Borehole Unit - Personnel
8.   Organization and Management
Table 1  -  Cost of Project Supporting Services
Chart      (IBRD 17460)
Appendices 1 to 6 - Job Descriptions
9.   Project Costs and Financing
Table 1  -  Summary of Project Costs (in December 1976 terms)
Table 2  -  Summary of Project Costs (in June 1977 terms)
Table 3  -  Summary of Project Costs, Taxes and Foreign
Expenditures
Table 4  -  Financing Plan
Table 5  -  IDA - Disbursement Schedule
Table 6  -  Beneficiaries' Contribution to Project Costs
Table 7  -  Covernment's Cash Flow
10.   Cost Recovery
Table 1 - Cost Recovery
I1.   Implementation Schedule (IBRD 17339)
12.   Audit Terms of Reference
13.   Reporting Requirements
Table 1 - Reporting Requirements
MAP
Project Area (IBRD 12617)






CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Cameroon has requested IDA assistance to set up
a Rural Development Fund to finance, as a first step, a group of high-pricr-
ity, small-scale schemes. The project was identified by a RMWA mission irL
late 1975, and prepared by RMWA missions in April and August 1976. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Cameroon
in October/November 1976.
Project Description
ii.       The main project objective is to help develop and strengthen
Cameroonian institutions and staff involved with rural development, and thus
increase their capability of carrying out development projects and recurrent
activities. The proposed project includes a water supply investment program,
and would also assist farmers through small scale production-related compo-
nents, that would provide useful experience for their future replication in
Cameroon. Provisions for as-yet-unidentified subprojects, and for project
monitoring and evaluation would contribute to develop the local capability
for programming and supervising rural development.  Overall, the RDF proj-
ect would focus on a much needed structure for channelling and monitoring
the effective use of funds for rural development, and conforms well with
Cameroon's agricultural development strategy as presented in the Fourth
Development Plan (1977-81).
iii.      The proposed project would concentrate on the four Northern Prov-
ince Departments of Diamare, Margui-Wandala, Mayo-Danay, and Logone et Chari.
It would be implemented over a four-year period and consist of:
(a)  improving about 300 ha of bottomland near Moulvouday
for rice cultivation;
(b) developing irrigated market gardening (onions and
vegetables) in a 250-ha area near Maroua by providing
loans and technical assistance to about 60 subsistence
farmers;
(c) developing commercial stall fattening of steers by pro-
viding credit facilities and technical assistance to about
2,000 farmers in the Mandara mountains area;
(d) constructing 10 small dams in the Mandara mountains
for human and animal water supply;



- ii -
(e) increasing and improving village water supplies in the
Diamare Pl.ain by: (a) rehabilitating about 600 existing
open wells, and capping 60 of them; (b) drilling about
430 borehcles; and (c) equipping abouat 490 water points
with hand- or pedal-operated pumps;
(f) providing funds for as-yet-unidentif:Led projects; and
(g) providing for technical assistance, on-the-job training
of local personnel, project monitoring, carrying out a
survey of waterborne diseases in the ;project area, prepa-
ration of further subprojects and of a follow-up RDF
project, and supporting services.
Project Implementation
iv.       Government would create within FONADER a RDF unit, to be denomi-
nated Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales (FSAR), which would assume overaLl
responsibility for project execution. It would be a condition of effec-
tiveness that FSAR had been created under terms acceptable to IDA. FSAR
would have operational autonomy and be responsible for: channelling project
funds to executing agencies and units; overall project supervision; estab-
lishing annual programs, budgets and reports; procurement; preparation of
subprojects to be,financed out of the provision for unidentified projects;
and preparation of a second RDF project.  It would be staffed with a
Cameroonian Director, an internationally recruited chief operation officer
an accountant and supporting staff. Several Government agencies would be
responsible for executing the investments: (a) izhe Rural Engineering Service
of the Ministry of Agriculture for well construction, pump installation,
small dams construction; (b) the Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de
la Riziculture de Yagoua (SEMRY) for bottomland development; (c) the Hydro-
geological Service of the Ministry of Mines and :Energy for borehole drilling;
(d) the Community Development Service of the Min.istry of Agriculture, for
assisting in recruitment and organization of unskilled labor for the small
dams construction, and of voluntary labor for th,e bottomland works; and (e)
the Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services of the Ministries of Agri-
culture and Livestock, respectively, which would assist FSAR to implement
the market gardening and stall fattening subprojects. An outline of the
responsibilities of FONADER and of the Ministries -- Agriculture, Livestock,
and Mines and Energy---involved with the proposed project has been prepared
and found acceptable in principle.  Not later than December 31, 1977 FONADER,
on behalf of FSAR, would enter into operational agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, with each of the ministries concerned to define in detail their respec-
tive roles in the execution of the project program.
Project Cost and Financing
v.        Project costs for the four-year project period, at mid-1977 prices,
are estimated at US$10.6 million equivalent, inc:Luding sales and excise taxes
of US$0.9 million, andl with a foreign exchange component of 57%. Cost esti-
mates include physical. contingencies of 10% of base cost (US$0.8 million) and
provision for expected price increase of 17% of base cost (US$1.4 million).
Base cost is made up as follows: bottomland development US$0.6 million;
market gardening US$0.1 million; stall fattening 'US$0.4 million; unidentified



- iii -
US$0.5 million; small dams US$1.6 million; village wells, pumps and boreholes
U$3.6 million; and project supporting services US$1.6 million. An IDA credit
of US$7.0 million is proposed to finance 72% of total project costs net
of taxes and duties, covering the equivalent of the foreign exchange cost
(US$6.0 million) and 27% of local costs (US$1.0 million). The balance of
project costs net of taxes and duties would be met by Governnent (US$2.6
million), and by beneficiaries (US$0.1 million) in the market gardening and
stall fattening subprojects. Farmers in the bottomland development would
also contribute unpaid voluntary labor of about US$30,000 equivalent which
is not included in the project cost estimates.
vi.       The IDA credit and Government contribution, except for salaries oi-
local personnel which would continue to be directly paid, would be passed on
as grants to an account opened by FONADER in the name of FSAR. FSAR would,
upon approved annual implementation programs and budgets, channel funds in the
FSAR account as grants to the services or units charged with subproject execu-
tion. The Government's annual contribution to project financing would be
shown separately in the ministerial budget concerned; the Government con-
tribution would be transferred in quarterly instalments to the FSAR account.
To prefinance project expenditures, Goverument would provide a revolving
fund of about US$0.2 million equivalent, through the FSAR account.
vii.      Government would implement a cost recovery scheme, under which ben-
eficiaries would contribute the equivalent of: (a) in the bottomland devel-
opment: the whole of maintenance costs of water works and investment cost;
(b) in the small dams: total reservoirs maintenance costs; and (c) in the
village wells, pumps, and boreholes subprojects: for recovery of investment
costs, the whole pumps cost during the project period and thereafter full
replacement and maintenance costs of village wells, pumps and boreholes.
Procurement and Disbursement
viii.     Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank group guidelines. ICB would
involve civil works, vehicles and equipment for a total of about US$3.6 mil-
lion. To the extent feasible, purchases of vehicles, equipment and materials
would be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procurement.
Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the level
of applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic with
foreign bids. Contracts for US$100,000 equivalent or less, which would not exceed
US$1.1 million, would not be large enough to attract international bids, and
would be awarded under competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Ten small dams would be constructed
over a four-year period. Given the low cost per dam (about US$45,000), con-
struction works in such remote areas would not be attractive to contractors,
and would therefore be carried out on force account by the Rural Engineering
Service. Expatriate staff and consulting services costing about US$1.7 mil-
lion would be obtained according to IDA's Guidelines for Consulting Services.



- iv -
ix.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would; be disbursed to cover, net
of taxes and duties: (a) 60% of Civil Works, defined as construction costs
of the bottomland subproject, construction costs and access roads for the
small dams subproject, and construction of FSAR offices and workshop re-
habilitation at Maroua --US$0.5 million; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures,
or 85% of local costs if procured locally, of Viehicles and Equipment costs
--US$2.4 million; (c) 60% of Operating Costs, other than local personnel
--US$1.0 million; and (d) 100% of Expatriate Staff costs, including benefits
and housing allowances --US$1.4 million. US$1.7 million, which includes
US$0.3 million for as-yet-unidentified projects, would be unallocated. Dis-
bursements against (a), (b), and (d) above would be fully documented. Dis-
bursements against (c) would be made on the basis of statements of expendi-
tures certified by the FSAR Director and FONADER's Director General, with
the supporting documentation retained by FSAR and made available for inspec-
tion during IDA project supervision missions.
Benefits and Justification
x.        The project is expected to have a major institutional impact.
FONADER would be strengthened by: (a) creating a FSAR unit which would pro-
vide a much needed fund-channelling mechanism for rural investment; (b) de-
veloping preparation, implementation and supervision capabilities for rural
development and sma:Ll farmer credit projects; and (c) implementing a report-
ing and monitoring system, as well as accounting and procurement procedures,
that could become oif general application within FONADER in the future.
Regional field serv:ices of the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, and
Mines and Energy would be strengthened and acquire on-the-job experience
in the implementation of simple, easily replicable rural works.
xi.       About 2,400 farm families, among the poorest in Cameroon, would
obtain substantial direct benefits from bottomLand development, market gar-
dening and stall fattening. Net cash returns per man-day would increase,
respectively, from t:he equivalent of US$4.90 ta 10.00, US$1.30 to 5.70, and
US$0.60 to 1.08, thus offering good incentives to participating farmers.
Annual incremental production at full development would comprise about 600 t
of paddy, 600 t of onions and other vegetables,, and 1,000 steers. Economic
rates of return have been estimated at 22% for bottomland development, 20%
for market gardening, and 34% for stall fatten:Lng. The overall rate of
return for these subprojects, which together inrvolve 31% of total project
costs, is 26% or 18% including their share of supporting services.
xii.      The major benefit from the village water supply component would
be an improvement in the quality of life for about 120,000 rural families.
The project would improve water quality and thereby contributes to reducing
health hazard, increase daily overall availability from 15 to 25 liters per
capita, and greatly reduce the burden of carrying water over long distances, a
particular benefit to rural women.
xiii.     Government has agreed to implement a cost recovery scheme that,
as a general principle, would aim at recovering investment and maintenance
expenditures from the beneficiaries and local c:ommunities involved.



v 
Risks
xiv.      Given the limited season for rural works, and the current shortage
of qualified supervisory personnel, the success of the RDF project would
depend on the timely recruitment of key project staff; particular efforts,
including recourse to APMU if requested by Government, would therefore be
made for this purpose. In the bottomland development the incidence of very
low rainfall years has been accounted for by lowering the projected paddy
yields; the possible spread of waterborne diseases would be closely monitored.
For the small dams subproject, the risk of further spreading endemic water-
borne diseases cannot be ignored. Steps would be taken under the project to
restrict direct animal access to water, and to advise villagers on proper
water use. A health survey of the project area would be carried out. In the
stall fattening scheme, credit recovery could be somewhat risky, since fattened
cattle could be sold in near-controlled markets. However, the influence of
traditional leaders and community pressure for repayment by participating
farmers is expected to be considerable. These circumstances and the fact that
the credit scheme would provide farmers with a unique opportunity to start
diversifying their activities and substantially increasing their income would
tend to counter possible credit recovery of problems. Finally, since proposed
RDF project would consist of at least five independent subprojects, the
failure of one component would not have serious repercussions on the others.
Recommendation
xv.       With the assurances and conditions indicated in Chapter VII, the
proposed RDF project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.0 million.






CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested IDA assistance to establish
a Rural Development Fund (RDF) to finance, as a first step, a group of high
priority, small-scale schemes. The proposed RDF project would be aimed
at improving social and economic infrastructures, and assisting institution
building and training.  At full development about 2,400 farm families wculd
profit from market gardening, stall fattening and bottomland development; and
about 600,000 rural inhabitants would benefit, in varying degrees, from vil-
lage water supplies and small dams construction. The project was identifi'ed
and prepared by RMWA missions which visited Cameroon in November 1975, aLnd in
April and August 1976.
1.02      Previous Bank Group assistance for agriculture involved:  (i) the
first SOCAPALM oil palm project -- Loans 593-CM, US$7.9 million in 1969,
and 886-CM, US$1.7 million in 1973; (ii) the first CAMDEV oil palm and
rubber project -- Loan 490-CM, US$7.0 million, and Credit 100-CM, US$11.0
million, in 1967; and (iii) the SEMRY rice project -- Credit 302-CM, US$3.7
million in 1972; all of these have been fully disbursed.  The Bank Group is
also assisting: (i) a Livestock project -- Loan 983-CM, US$11.6 million
(1974); (ii) a Cocoa project -- Loan 1039-CM, US$6.5 million (1975); ancd
(iii) the Niete rubber project -- Credit 574-CM, US$16.0 million (1975); all
of these projects are progressing satisfactorily. In addition, two opera-
tions were approved by the Board in December 1976; (i) the Plaine des M"bo
Rural Development project -- Credit 672-CM, US$2.0 million, and (ii) a
Technical Assistance project -- US$4.5 million. The Second SOCAPALM project
-- Bank/Third Window Loan 886-CM, US$25 million, has been recently approved by
the Board.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
prising Messrs. J. Gamba, Ch. Megas, A. Rogerson (IDA), R. Crofts and T
Bright (Consultants), which visited Cameroon in October/November 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Cameroon has a total area of some 475,000 km , of which approxi-
mately 37% is forest, 32% is grazing land, only 4% is cropped, and the re-
mainder is accounted for by rivers, lakes and unoccupied (including falLow)
land. Total population is estimated at 7.3 million (mid-1975), with an
overall growth rate of 2.3% a year. Particular demographic features are:



- 2 -
(a) a rapid migraLtion to urban areas (where the growth rate is 7%)2and,
(b) a relatively low overall Eopulatioa density of 15.4 Dersons/km , but
which masks a range of 225/km  to 1/km .  TLe country's ecoclimatic zones
range from tropical forest in the South to Sahelian plains in the North --
giving agriculture a considerable degree of diversity.
2.02      Average per capita income is US$270, with the absolute poverty
level estimated at about US$70 per capita. D)uring 1960-70 growth of real GDP
had been about 7% per annum, but since 1971, it has declined to less than 3%
per annum. This was caused by factors large:Ly outside Cameroon's control,
such as falling prices for its exports, drought, and rapidly rising import
prices. Meanwhile Government stepped up pubLic investment, which increased by
50% to reach annual averages of about US$19C million in constant 1974 dollars
during the Third Development Plan (1972-76). At the same time, greater
emphasis has been placed on agricultural output. The Fourth Plan (1977-81)
projects a GDP growth of 7% per annum in real terms.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture plays a major role in Cameroon's economy, providing
a livelihood for about 85% of the population and accounting for 35-40% of
GDP and over 75% of the value of exports. Th.e agricultural sector can be
divided into traditional agriculture and industrial plantations. The tra-
ditional subsectoir accounts for over 85% of agricultural output. It com-
prises some 1 mil:Lion smallholdings of about 2 ha each, using family labor.
Smallholders produce food crops for subsistence and the local market, and
cocoa, coffee, col:ton and groundnuts for export. Cattle-raising mainly by
nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralists in northern Cameroon and the north-
central Adamaoua plateau accounts for about 15% of the production of the
traditional subsector. The industrial plantation subsector comprises sev-
eral large governnient-owned and a few private industrial estates (foreign-
owned), producing palm oil (mainly for domesitic consumption) and rubber
(for export).
2.04      Production of foodstuffs has expanded over the past five years
at an annual rate of about 3.5%, ahead of population growth. But this has
been due mainly to a rapid growth in the output of vegetables and potatoes
in response to growing urban demand, as agaiinst stagnation in the output
of traditional staples, such as maize (in the West), plantains, yams, cassava
and cocoyams (in the Center South) and millet and sorghum in the North (here,
production was adversely affected by the Sahelian drought). Although Cameroon
is largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, imports of wheat and rice (again
mainly for urban consumption) have risen sharply since 1970. Marketing of
food crops is almost exclusively in the hands of private traders, most of
whom operate over limited areas and wîth a small turnover. Storage facili-
ties are inadequate.



2.05      The national livestock herd is estimated at 3 million cattle (of
which about 40% are in the North), 3 million sheep and goats, 0.5 million
pigs and 8 million poultry. Annual meat production from the national herd
is estimated at 80,000 tons. In the past, this was supplemented by impDrts
of live animals from Chad, but recently these cattle have been diverted to
Nigeria, so that, without an increase in local production, annual per capita
consumption in Cameroon has probably fallen from its previous level of about
Il kg. Market price increases for beef and cattle over the last two years
have been about 15% per year. Price controls have been established by Gov-
ernment, but have so far been ineffective.
2.06      Although forest accounts for 37% of the total area, the forestry
sector contributes less than 3% to GDP, 8% to exports and 7% to employment.
Better utilization of Cameroon's vast forest resources calls for improved
inventory statistics, construction of feeder roads, changes in concession
and fiscal policies, and encouragement of local wood processing. Studies
financed under the Second Xighway Project (Credit 429-CM and Loan 935-CM)
are designed to assist Government efforts in these fields.
2.07      There are marked regional disparities in farm incomes, stemming
basically from differences in farm size due to population pressure and the
type of cash crops grown. Per capita farm incomes are highest in the cocoa
and coffee producing areas of the south (about US$130 per capita), whereas
in the northern highlands they are as low as US$40.
C. Institutions
2.08      The National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER) was created in
1973 and given the dual role of: (a) providing credit to farmers, precoop-
eratives, and cooperatives, and (b) appraising, financing and supervising a
wide variety of rural development programs, from pesticide and fertilizer
supply to village water supply and irrigation projects. It operates from
its Yaounde Headquarters, relying on the departmental field services of the
ministries concerned for basic evaluations and implementation. Details of
its structure and operations are at Annex 2.
2.09      The shortcomings of assuming such widespread responsibilities froe-- a
narrow base have now become apparent; a reorganization plan has been outlised5
and is presently under review by Government. This plan suggests concentrating
FONADER's activities on agricultural credit operations with corol-^ry changes
in its financial and organizational structure, such as the opening of regional
offices, and offering full agricultural banking services.  In addition  a
detailed organization study, to be financed by the European Developmenl: Fund
(FED), is about to get underway. The role of FONADER in the proposed project
is discussed in paras 3.23-25.
2.10      Agricultural services are provided by a variety of governmenl  .iid
parastatal organizations. At Government level, the Ministries of Agriculture
and Livestock have primary responsibility for most aspects of agricultural



- 4-
and animal productian, respectively- Agricultural rasearch is largely under-
taken by the Nationail Organization for Scientifie and Technical Research
(ONAREST) and coordi.nated by the Ministry of P:Lanning. Responsibility for
agricultural training is divided between the M.Lnistries of Agriculture and
Education. The Ministries of Agriculture and livestock are represented in
each province and department, where a delegate or section head liaises with
local administrativet authorities (Governor and Prefects). Most delegations
have representativeE of varitous ministerial directorates (e.g. Rural Engineer-
ing, Cooperatives, Veterinary services, and others) who enjoy operational
autonomy. However, these national services suiffer from a number of short-
comings, Mhich constitute constraints on development:  (a) management, com-
munication and coordination are lacking; (b) research is not adequately
applied to rural needs; (c) extension agents are few in number and often
insufficiently equipped and trained; and (d) operational funds are critically
short, rendering key services  such as maintenance, largely inaperative.
2.11      The parastatal sector is composed of Development Companies
(Societes de Developpement) which are charged with specific agricultural
programs or projects usually built around a single product. They include
SODEPA for livestock, SOCAPAIM for oil palm, and SODECAO for cocoa.  Some
of these undertake all product management -- provision of inputs, exten-
si-on services, processing and marketing; exampLes in the area of the pro-
posed projeet are SODECOTON for cotton, and SE¶RY for rice.
D. Agricultural Development StrategY
2,12      The target for the country's Fourth Plan (1977-81) is to achieve
an annual gro-vth ra:e of 7%. To this end, the Plan proposes a high-level
of public in-vestment: of over US$2.0 billion (in constant 1974/75 terms),
and gives increasing, emphasis to directly productive sectors.  The projected
public investment iLn agricultural development -is, in 1974/75 prices, CFAF 85
billion (US$380 million), representing some 17%, of the Plan's total public
investment expenditure. At the same time, recurrent expenditures for rural
development services are proi ected to grow by 6 7% per annum over the Plan
period,
2.13      Tmplicit in the Fourth Plan is a two=-pronged strategy.  Because of
the need for increased export revenues and te  ti]lize potentially productive
naturall rsources as well as the technical and managerial experience already
acquired by existing organizations, about a quarter of the total projected
investment uill be in the further expansion of plantation agriculture, in-
cluding promotion of smallholder schemes. The rest of the investment program
îs  addressed to promote and improve production in the traditional sector
through a var.ety of means, such as integrated regional development, settle-
ment schemes, and specific crop promotion.  In livestock, a similar balance
between projeeted investment in modern ranch programs and in activities to
impro-ve traditional livestock production is planned.
.?,i4     W-evithir- the development needs of the Craditional sector, it is re-
cogn:zed that a number of relatively small and localized supporting activities



should be implemented in such fields as self-help projects by the local
population, credit for individual producers, rural water supply, and small-
scale irrigation projects. The RDF is designed to meet these needs. Also,
the proposed project would equip existing field services (para 2.08), and
promote their more effective operation by demonstrating management, credit
and field practices, and improving coordination between different units. It
is expected that this experience would afterwards be repeated in appropriately
modified form elsewhere.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Area and Summary Description
3.01      An important objective of the proposed project is to strengthen
Cameroonian institutions and train staff involved with rural development, to
create a local capability to carry out effectively high-priority small-scale
agricultural development projects. The principal beneficiaries of this in-
stitution building would be: (a) FONADER, (b) the Rural Engineering Service
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and (c) the Hydrogeological Service of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy. As a first step, these institutions will be
involved in the execution of a series of well--defined and justified subproj-
ects financed through this project. The project would also provide for as-
yet-unidentified subprojects and for project monitoring and evaluation to
develop the local capability for programming and supervising rural develop-
ment. Lastly, the proposed project provides for the testing of cost recovery
procedures which would supply information to judge the degree of repeatability
of the type of subprojects financed by the rural development fund unit (FSAR),
ta be set up within FONADER, from the standpoint of future fiscal burden.
3.02      While the FSAR is ultimately intended to operate nationwide, the
proposed project would concentrate on the four Northern Province depart-
ments of Diamare, Margui-Wandala, Mayo-Danay and Logone et Chari, covering
some 30,000 km  and a population of about 1.1 million (details at Annex 1,
and Map). The project would help finance at least five small-scale rural
development schemes.  It would be implemented over a four-year period by
FONADER through the FSAR, as the main fund-channelling institution, and by
several Government technical agencies and units responsible for executing
the particular investments (para 3.23), and would consist of:
(i)  improving about 300 ha of bottomland near Moulvouday
for rice cultivation;
(ii)  developing irrigated market gardening (onions and
vegetables) in a 250-ha area near Maroua by providing
loans and technical assistance to about 60 subsistence
farmers;



- 6 -
(iii) developing commercial stall fattenirng of steers by
providing credit facilities and technical assistance to
about 2,000 farmers in the Mandara mountains area;
(iv) construct:ing 10 small dams in the Mandara mountains
for human and animal water supply;
(v) increasing and improving village water supplies on the
Diamare Plain by: (a) rehabilitating about 600 exist-
ing open wells, and capping 60 of them; (b) drill-
ing about 430 boreholes; and (c) equipping about 490
water points with hand- or pedal-operated pumps;
(vi) providing funds for as-yet-unidentified projects; and
(vii) providing for technical assistance, on-the-job training
of local personnel, project monitoring, carrying out
a survey cf waterborne diseases in the project area,
preparatien of further subprojects arîd of a follow-up
RDF project, and supporting services..
B. Detailed Features
Bottomland Development (Annex 3)
3.03      Some of the numerous bottomland depressions, known as yaeres, which
cover about 4,000 ha in the Diamare Plain, are under swamp rice cultivation,
but yields, which are low for lack of water control, can be considerably in-
creased. Simple water control and land improvement works would be carried
out on two contiguous yaeres west of Moulvouday, covering about 275 ha of
cultivated land (300 ha total) at a cost per cultivated ha of about CFAF
450,000 (US$1,800). The subproject would comprdise: (i) constructing (a) a
compacted earth dam to increase the height of the natural sill between the
two yaeres, so the upper yaere can become a reservoir of water for the lower;
(b) two peripheral canals to supply water for irrigation in the lower yaere;
and (c) a drainage canal along the line joining the lowest points of the
downstream yeare to drain excess flood flows; (ii) providing adaptive re-
search to support swamp rice production; and (iii) providing extension ser-
vices to: (a) mobilize farmers' participation in bund and secondary canal
construction and maintenance; (b) organize seed multiplication and distribu-
tion; and (c) encourage adoption of improved fa:rming practices.
3.04      The subproject would be implemented by a Bottomland Unit (BU)
to be created within SEMRY. BU would be staffed with one manager and one
extension agent to be assigned full-time to the BU. Main water control



- 7 -
works would be designed and construction supervised by an internationally
recruited consultant, to be hired for six months. Construction would be
carried out by SEMRY during PY2. After completion and inspection, SEMRY
would be responsible for works maintenance. Participating farmers would
provide voluntary labor for secondary canal and bund construction and main-
tenance.  In addition, farmers would participate in a cost-recovery scheme to
cover maintenance of major works (para 4.06 and Annex 10). SEMRY would obtain
the support of the paramount chief (Lamido) and village chiefs ta develop the
yaeres, a necessary step to ensure farmers' cooperation in construction works.
Distribution of plots (1 ha/farm family) would be subject to: (i) work perfcrmed
by farmers in canal excavation and land preparation; (ii) a proposal by the
subproject extension agents; and (iii) a confirmation by the Lamido in council
with village chiefs, following the customary land tenure arrangements in the
area. Adaptive research on improved bottomland rice varieties and fertilizer
usage would be carried out during PYI to PY3 by SEMRY under the supervision
of the Institute for Agricultural and Forestry Research (IRAF). At present,
paddy yields are some 0.8 - 1.0 t/ha. With improved water control, fertilizer
usage and better seeds, yields are expected to be about 2.5 t/ha at full
development in PY5. To help the seed multiplication and distribution scheme,
the silo at Moulvouday, presently unused and under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture, would be assigned to and maintained by BU. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would cause: (a) not,
later than December 31, 1977, SEMRY to create a BU within its organization
to implement the subproject; and (b) the Ministry of Agriculture to assign
the silo at Moulvouday to BU. Certain health problems, like the spread of
waterborne diseases (especially schistosomiasis), are likely to be brought
about by the construction of the water reservoir. The Government health
services would advise the population on the adoption of precautionary mea-
sures; in addition they would monitor the health situation, in order to
take adequate control measures, if needed. An assurance to this effect
was obtained during negotiations.
Market Gardening (Annex 4)
3.05      Market gardening production in Cameroon is heavily concentrated
around towns, and in response to increasing urban demand it has grown continu-
ously over the past years. The crops include carrots, tomatoes, lettuce, gar-
lic, parsley, peppers and sweet potatoes, but most importantly onions, which
have a total production of about 15,000 t per annum, of which 50% comes from
the village of Meskine, near Maroua. The development of onion production irn
this area has been spontaneous, without the benefit of research or extension.
However, standards of cultivation are high. Since there is a dry period of
six months, irrigation is essential. The traditional irrigated area is
limited to flood-lands bordering the rivers. The main system is based on a
chadouf -- a wooden lever-type device over an open well - which permits water
to be raised by hand to irrigate plots of 0.04 ha. A few motor pumps have
been introduced by larger landowners on 1 ha plots, helped by FONADER finan-
cing. Both systems present difficulties: the chadouf is constrained by labor



- 8-
availability; and tb,e motor pumps have led to undue pressure on the slowly
expandling market facilities for onions as well as create social problems such
as displacement of nianual labor. Until 1975, onion production from this area
was marketed only in northern urban centers, w:ith heavy losses due to inade-
quate storage. However, market links with the main consumption centers in
the south (Douala and Yaounde) have been growing significantly.  Larger
producers in the Maroua area hire lorries to transport onions southward and
return with backload.s of merchandise. Prices average about CFAF 35/kg
(US$0.14), reaching a peak of CFAF 75/kg (US$0"30) just before the arrival
of the new crop by e.nd-November. Market prospects offer adequate scope for
introducing an inter mediate technology which would involve the installation
of hand- or pedal-operated pumps, on either open wells or boreholes, permit-
ting double cropping.  The feasibility of such equipment has been demon-
strated in the ongoing UNDP groundwater projeci: (CMR/74-013) and in Sahelian
countries.
3.06      A credit program would be administered to provide about 60 loans to
small farmers, either individually or in groups, in the vicinity of Maroua.
Loans would cover the installation of about 40 boreholes equipped with hand-
or pedal-operated pumps, and the provision of about 20 hand- or pedal-operated
pumps for use on open wells. In the case of a 'borehole and pump, total in-
vestment would be about CFAF 450,000 (US$1,840); farmers contribution would
am.ount to 5% of investment or about CFAF 22,000 (US$90), and the balance
wouid be financed by a loan of about CFAF 427,5100 (US$1,750). In the case of
a pump attached to a.n open well, farmers would contribute the cost of annual
well digging and maintenance (about CFAF 6,000 or US$25), and the loans would
ba about CFAY 165,00Q (US$670) to finance the cost and installation of a
purmp. Loans would be for four years with a minimum rate of interest of 10%.
Assurances were obtained from Government that loans would be granted under
these terms and conditions. Credit systems and procedures, designed and
tested by the subproject staff (para 3.09), wou:Ld be expected to provide
models for use in other agricultural credit operations to be undertaken by
FONA-DER, During negotiations assurances were obtained that credit under the
proposed program would be limited to the intermediate technology of hand- or
pedal-operated pumps.
3.07      In an area of some 250 ha, the subproject would involve about 100
farm families, cultivating holdings of 1.5 ha each, of which 0.2 ha would be
under double cropped onions and vegetables, anc. the remainder under rainfed
crops (sorghum/millet).  Onion yields are estimated at 30 t/ha.  As at pres-
ent- farmers would rely on locally produced seeds, and fertilizer provided
by SODECOTON, At full development in PY5 the incremental production of 600 t
,s expected to be marketed in Maroua at an average price of CFAF 37.50/kg
k1JS$O.I5) Farmers would be initially selected. in consultation with the
Nil1ooe chi of9 and following the customary land. tenure arrangements in the
area9,  heir assured right to use of the land wculd have to be confirmed by
the Paramount chief (Lamido) in council with village chiefs.



- 9 -
3.08      During PYI and PY2, an applied research program on onions would
also be financed, to be carried out under contract by the Maroua station of
the Institute for Agriculture and Forestry Research (IRAF), and aimed at:
(i) improving existing onion production practices; and (ii) designing effi-
cient onion storage methods. Related field and storage trials would be
arranged by the subproject extension agent, with funds provided under the
subproject.
3.09      The subproject would be implemented by FSAR through a credit unit
(CU), to be installed in Maroua, which would also administer the stall fatten-
ing subproject (para 3.13). CU would be staffed with a Cameroonian credit
manager, recruited by FONADER, an internationally recruited credit specialist
for PYI and PY2, and one credit/extension agent assigned full-time by the
Ministry of Agriculture, who would be trained on-the-job by the senior proj-
ect staff. The credit manager and the credit specialist would also implement
the stall fattening subproject (para 3.13). Boreholes would be drilled and
pumps installed and maintained by the project teams responsible for similar
operations under the village water supply subproject (paras 3.18 to 3.20).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would cause
FONADER to create within FSAR, not later than December 31, 1977, a credit
unit in Maroua to implement this subproject (as well as the stall fattening
scheme, para 3.13).
Stall Fattening (Annex 5)
3.10      In the northern part of the Mandara mountains, farmers traditionally
fatten steers for slaughter at the time of customary celebrations. Steers are
kept permanently in stables within the village, and fed with kitchen and crop
residues, and collected roughage. About 5,000 steers per year have been thus
fattened in this area. Attracted by high cattle prices, a few farmers have
recently started to sell fattened steers. However, the development of commer-
cial fattening is constrained by the shortage of cash for cattle purchases and
by the supply of traditional feedstuffs.
3.11      The proposed subproject would help farmers to start commercial
fattening of steers side by side with fattening for customary slaughter; to
this end, a line of credit would be provided to some 2,000 families in about
30 villages in the Mandara mountains over a four-year period. For a total
investment of about CFAF 38,700 (US$160) per farmer, loans would average
CFAF 32,600 (US$130) for two years, bearing a minimum interest rate of 10%
per annum. Farmers would contribute 16% of investment, or an average of
about CFAF 6,000 (US$24). Assurances were obtained that loans would be
granted under these terms and conditions.
3.12      Animals would be purchased at traditional markets, averaging 180 kg/
lwt and costing about CFAF 30,000/head (US$120). During a two-year fattening
period, after vaccination and treatment against parasites, they would be fad
on roughage, crop and kitchen residues, and a supplement of 150 kg of cotton
cake and 6 kg of minerals per year. Weight gains would be of 0.3 kg/day.
Beneficiaries would be preselected by the subproject management in consulta-
tion with the village chiefs; credit/extension agents would assess the situa-
tion and experience of the, candidates and help prepare the loan applications.



- 10 -
Formal procedures would be the same as those applied under the Credit com-
ponent of the ongoing Bank-financed Livestock Project (Loan 983-CM). Sub-
project staff would buy supplementary feed on the basis of approved loans and
make arrangements for timely distribution; they would also assist farmers on
their purchasing of cattle.  Extension agents would be responsible for vacci-
nation, treatment and branding of animals bought under the credit scheme.
3.13      The subproject would be implemented by FSAR though a credit unit
(CU), to be installed in Maroua, which would also implement the market gar-
dening subproject (para 3.09). Besides the Cameroonian manager and the
internationally recruited credit specialist for PYl and PY2, CU would be
staffed with four creclit/extension agents to be aissigned to the subproject
by the Ministry of Livestock. These agents would be trained on-the-job by
the senior CU staff.
Small Dams (Annex 6)
3.14      At present about 40,000 people living in the Mandara mountains
spend a great deal of time and effort in collecting water for domestic use
during the dry season, when surface water dries up. In addition, animals
(about 2,000 cattle and 50,000 sheep) have to be driven to distant water
points. The subproject would construct about 10 small dams in the area, to
supply drinking water to the human and animal population within a 5 km radius
of each site. The dams would be gravity overspi:Ll structures constructed in
grouted rubble maso3ry. They would be designed 1:o have useful storage between
21 and 62 million m depending on the population to be served. Works would
be carried out on force account on two sites at a time, between PY2 and PY4
(para 4.07). Funds would be provided for: (a) salaries for skilled and un-
skilled labor and local supervisory staff; (b) purchase of equipment, vehi-
cles and construction materials; (c) operating costs of vehicles and equip-
ment; (d) construction of access roads to dam sites; (e) one internationally
recruited construction engineer to be appointed for the project period; and
(f) six man-months of consultant services to carry out a health survey in the
subproject area.
3.15      The subproject would be implemented by an independent Dams Con-
struction Unit (DCU) to be created, not later than December 31, 1977, within
RES in Maroua. DCU would be managed by the internationally recruited con-
struction engineer, mentioned in para 3.14, to be appointed for the full
development period.  The following staff would be assigned full-time to DCU:
two works supervisors and two works teams, from RES; and three agents from CD.
The construction engineer would be responsible for detailed surveys, design
and organizing constru,tion. He would assist RES in recruitment of skilled
personnel. Unskilled labor at each construction site would be organized with
the help of the CD agents.  After completion and inspection, the small dams
would be maintained by RES. During negotiations an assurance was obtained
that Governnent would cause RES to create a DCU in Maroua to implement the
subproject.



- il -
3.16      About 44,000 man-days of unskilled labor would be required, and
remunerated at the Government minimum wage of about CFAF 350 (US$1.40) per
man-day. This is justified because annual per capita incomes (about CFAF
7,000 or US$30) are well below the absolute poverty level for the country,
forcing the active population to search for work in the plains during the
dry season, when dam construction would be carried out. The proposed level
of remuneration would provide a sufficient incentive to match existing em-
ployment opportunities.
3.17      It can be anticipated that the construction of dams in the Mandara
mountains would bring about certain health problems. Thus, under the proj-
ect, access to reservoirs would be limited by thorn hedges, and animals
would be watered separately from human water collection points. The CD agents
would advise the population in the use of simple, hygienic water treatment
methods. The spread of waterborne diseases, especially schistosomiasis, is
likely to occur. Since it is an endemic area, with high population density,
surveillance of the epidemiological situation would be required. For this
purpose, by April 30, 1979, a surveillance mechanism to monitor the health
situation and identify the need and feasibility of control actions would be
set up by the Government health services in the subproject area. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. In addition the project
would finance a health survey in the project area, taking into account the
general health situation in the Northern Province. The survey, at an esti-
mated cost of about CFAF 12 million (US$50,000), would assess the available
health infrastructure, the epidemiological situation, as well as the staffing
and budgetary constraints of the Health Service. The study would provide the
data base for designing appropriate health actions in the Northern Province,
and assist the Government in adjusting its health strategy. It would include
a section on cost effective modes of intervention to deal with the major local
endemic diseases. Terms of Reference are at Annex 6, Appendix 1.
Village Wells, Pumps and Boreholes (Annex 7)
3.18      The supply of drinking water for domestic and livestock use is a
serious problem during the dry season in the four northern departments of
Diamare, Mayo-Danay, Margui-Wandala, and Logone et Chari. About 1,400 lined
open wells have been constructed therein by Government; about 600 of these
require deepening or major repairs. Each of the remaining 800 serves about
1,200 people, with a per capita consumption of about 15 liters per day. The
subproject would improve village water supplies by deepening or repairing
those 600 wells and by drilling about 430 small diameter boreholes. About
60 of the reconstructed wells would be capped and these, as well as the 430
boreholes, would be equipped with hand- or pedal-operated pumps. After
completion, there would be one water point (open wells plus boreholes) to
about 600 people, which approximates the Government's Fourth Plan objective.
3.19      The following would be financed:  (i) equipment, vehicles and
operating costs for: (a) four RES open well rehabilitation brigades; (b) one
RES pump installation and maintenance unit, and (c) the HS, Garoua borehole
drilling unit; and (ii) local personnel and two internationally recruited



- 12 -
staff (one maintenance engineer and one borehole drilling instructor). The
RES well construction and maintenance brigades wcould be equipped to repair
and deepen all the unserviceable wells in the four departments. However, no
new open weils would be dug. Each brigade would be expected to reinstate 50
wells per year. An average repair would be equivalent to deepening and lining
6 m of well. Costs are estimated at an average cif about CFAF 1.0 million
(US$4,000) per repaired well. One RES unit wouldl be equipped to install and
maintain hand- or pedal-operated pumps on capped wells and boreholes; it would
also be responsible for training villagers in mirLor routine pump maintenance.
HS, Garoua Section, is at present using UNDP-supplied equipment to drill water
supply boreholes, as part of the Drought Relief Program, in addition to its
normal function of exploratory groundwater drilling. An additional percussion
rig and operating cosl-s for two rigs (one rotary and one percussion) with
which HS would instalL the production boreholes required by the project would
be financed. Each rig would have an annual capacity for drilling about 70
boreholes. HS would also install boreholes as required under the market
gardening subproject (para 3.09). Boreholes would be drilled to an average
depth of 36 m, with 4-1/2" diameter. Costs are estimated at about CFAF 1.1
million (US$4,500) per borehole, equipped with a hand- or pedal-operated
pump.
3.20      The subproject would be implemented over a four-year period.  The
implementation scheduLe is at Annex 7, Table 2. Open wells rehabilitation
and maintenance would be carried out by Departmental sections of RES, which
would be assigned fulL-time to execute the subproject. Pump installation and
maintenance would be the responsibility of a unit to be established at RES,
Maroua. The main RES workshop at Maroua would be equipped and, under the
management of the internationally recruited maintenance engineer to be ap-
pointed for four years, would provide complete overhaul facilities for the
four well brigades and for the operation and maintenance of pumps.  Boreholes
would be drilled by the HS Garoua unit, to be assigned full-time to execute
the subproject, under an internationally recruited manager who would be
appointed for the whoLe period. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that Government would cause RES to create a pump installation and maintenance
unit at Maroua, not later than December 31, 1977.
Unidentified
3.21      The proposed project provides about CFAF 122 million (US$500,000)
for as-yet-unidentified subprojects, which would be identified, prepared,
appraised and implemented during the project period, and would further
contribute to the institution-building objective of the proposed project,
by strengthening FONADER's capability in that regard. The Direction of
Studies and Projects of the Ministry of Agriculture would also partici-
pate in appraisal work; this would promote a better coordination of proj-
ect preparation work among the Government institutions involved.
3.22      FSAR, in addiition to its main responsibilities regarding project
implementation and supervision, would be charged during PY1 with the identi-
fication and preparation of small rural projects to be financed out of the



- 13 -
funds for unidentified subprojects. In their selection, FSAR would apply the
following basic criteria. The subproject(s) would have to: (i) benefit a
large number of rural inhabitants; and (ii) be of small scale, requiring,
minimum equipment and materials, and simple organizational and management
arrangements. They would have to enlarge or improve agricultural production
and rural incomes, and make use of existing Government's services, thus
strengthening institutions and local staff capabilities, in line with the
proposed projects main objectives (para 3.01). A subproject that passes the
above tests would then be subject to technical, financial and economic
evaluation. Farm budgets would be the basis for financial evaluation and
economic rates of return would support the justification of the subprojects.
Fully appraised and justified proposals for subprojects to be financed out
of the allocation for unidentified would be submitted by FSAR, with all
supporting documentation, to IDA for approval. Assurances to these effects
were obtained during negotiations. Selection and appraisal of new subproj-
ects during PYI would allow their implementation to start in PY2.
C. Organization and Management
3.23      Government would create within E'ONADER a RDF unit, to be dencm-
inated Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales (FSAR), which would assume overall
responsibility for project execution (see Chart). It would be a condition
of effectiveness that FSAR had been created under terms acceptable to I]DA.
FSAR would have operational autonomy and administer the FSAR account (para
4.05). However, should FONADER be reorganized during the project period (para
2.09), an assurance was obtained during negotiations that Government would
consult IDA to ensure that such reorganization would not adversely affect the
RDF Project objectives, as well as FSAR's activities. Project implementation
would primarily involve: (i) SEMRY, which would be responsible for the
bottomland development (para 3.04); (ii) the Rural Engineering Service (RES)
of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would be responsible for small dams
construction (para 3.15), well construction (para 3.20), and pump installation
(para 3.20); (iii) the Hydrogeological Service (HS) of the Ministry of Mines
and Energy, which would be responsible for borehole drilling (para 3.20); and
(iv) the Agricultural (AES) and Livestock (LES) Extension Services of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, respectively, which would assist FSAR
in the implementation of the Market Gardening and Stall Fattening subprojects
(paras 3.09 and 3.13). Details about the present organization and performance
of these agencies, as well as their responsibilities under the RDF project,
are in Annexes 2 and 8, respectively. An. outline of the responsibilities of
FONADER, FSAR and the individual Ministries involved in the project, en the
lines proposed in Annex 8, has been prepared, reviewed with Government: durilag
negotiations, and found acceptable in principle.  Not later than December 31,
1977, FONADER on behalf of FSAR would enter into operational agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, with each of the Ministries concerned, to define in
detail their respective roles in the execution of the project program. An
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.



- 14 -
3.24      FSAR would be responsible for overaill supervision and monitoring,
including the establishing of annual programas, budgets, and progress reports,
and for procurement. In addition, it would identify and prepare as-yet-un-
identified subprojects, and initiate preparation of a second RDF project. A
Cameroonian Director would be appointed and supporting staff would be provided
for the FSAR office in Yaounde. The FSAR Director would be assisted by an
internationally recruited chief operations officer appointed for the project
period and based in Maroua. He would coordinate day-to-day operations and
monitor project execution; an accountant and supporting staff would also be
provided under the project. FSAR offices would be buîlt and associated
facilities equipped with project funds. For PYI, FSAR would submit, not
later than December 31, 1977, the project implementation program and budget
for approval by IDA. For each year thereaft:er, FSAR would submit, not later
than April 30, the annual implementation program and budget to IDA for
approval. FSAR would introduce, not later t:han March 31, 1978, a monitoring
and reporting system outlined in Annex 13, satisfactory to IDA and be respon-
sible for timely reporting thereafter. Assurances to these effects were
obtained during negotiations.  A detailed implementation schedule is at Annex
11.
3.25      Key project staff would be:  (i) the FSAR Director; (ii) the chief
operations offic,2r, (iii) the Credit Manager; (iv) the Credit Specialist; (v)
the Maintenance Engineer for the village water supply program; (vi) the small
dams Construction Engineer; (vii) the Borehole Unit Manager; (viii) the bore-
hole drilling instructor; (ix) the four Open Wells Brigade heads, and (x) the
FSAR accountant. The FSAR Director, the Credit Manager and the Accountant
would be Cameroonians recruited by FONADER and appointed after consultation
with IDA. A number of well-qualified Cameroonian technicians operating in
the project area, the Borehole Unit Manager at HS, the four RES Open Wells
Brigade heads in the Northern Departments would be assigned by their respective
ministries to re:Levant implementation services and units. The remaining key
project staff would be required to have experience and technical qualifica-
tions currently unavailable, or in critically short supply in Cameroon, and
would therefore be internationally recruited. Their responsibilities and
qualifications are detailed in Annex 8. If requested by Government, the
Agricultural Projects Management Unit of IDA's Western Africa Regional Office
would assist in recruitment. The expatriate staff would not only provide
on-the-job techn.ical training to local personnel, but they would also ensure
that senior local staff be given a thorough grounding in essential management
matters, such as work planning and supervision, budgeting, procurement, and
control of stocks. Provisions on these matters would be included in the
terms of reference of the expatriate staff (Annex 8, Appendices 1-6). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (i) all expatriate key project
staff would be employed under terms of reference and would have qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA; (ii) the :FSAR Director, the Credit Manager
and the Accountant would be appointed after consultation with IDA. Appoint-
ment of the FSAR Director and of the chief operations officer would be condi-
tions of effectivreness.



- 15 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Total project costs for the four-year project period are estimated
at CFAF 2,600 million (US$10.6 million), including sales and excise taxes of
about CFAF 230 million (US$0.9 million). Duties and taxes on imports of goods
and services directly imported for the project are expected to be waived by
Government and have therefore been excluded from project cost estimates; this
has been confirmed during negotiations. Foreign expenditures would be about
CFAF 1,470 million (US$6.0 million), or 57% of total project costs. Costs are
detailed in Annex 9, and summarized in the table next page.
4.02      Cost estimates are based on mid-1977 prices and include:  (a) physi-
cal contingencies of 10% on base cost estimates; and (b) expected price in-
creases compounded at the following annual rates for both local and foreign
costs: civil works, 9% 1977-79, 8% 1980-81; all other costs, 7.5% 1977-79,
7% 1980-81. Total expected price increases amount to 15% of base costs plus
physical contingencies. Costs of Cameroonian staff are based on Government
salary scales. These costs include allowances paid to civil servants (about
20% on basic salaries), comprising transportation and housing, and arising as
a direct result of the secondment of the staff concerned to the subprojects.
Costs of expatriate personnel, including benefits and allowances, average
US$5,900 per man-month; those of short-term consultants average US$8,300 per
man-month, including travel expenses.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      The financing plan is detailed in Annex 9, Table 4, and summarized
below:
IDA     Government      Beneficiaries      Total
------------------US$ thousand----------------
Civil Works                  515          345                 -              860
Vehicles and Equipment    2,420           370                 60           2,850
Operating Costs               945         625                  5           1,575
Local Personnel                -        1,180                 -            1,180
Expatriate Staff            1,380          -                               1,380
Unidentified                  290         210                 -            _ 500
Base Costs              5,550        2,730                 65           8,345
Unallocated                 1,450          790                15           2,255
Total                   7,000        3,520                 80         10,600
Percentage of Total        66           33                  1             100
Percentage of Total
Net of Taxes               72          27                  1             100



-16-
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPKENT FUND PROWECT
Summary of Project Costei
(In Xid-1977 Terme)
Percentage of
Foreign      Total
Local     Foreign      Total          Local      Foreign      Total        Exchange      Base Cost
--------CFAF Million --------             ----U         an-
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Vehicles and Equipment                      1.5        3.8          5.3           6.3       16.0         22.0            71
Civil Works                                60.1       40.1        100.2         245.0      164.0        409.0            40
Operating Costs                             7.6        5.2         12.8          31.0       21.0         52.0            41
Local Personnel                             5.2        -            5.2          21.O        -           21.0             0
Expatriate Staff                            -         12.4         12.4           -         50.0         50.0          100
SUBTOTAL                             74.4       61.5        135.9         303.0       251.0        554.0           45             7.0
MARKET GARDENING
Vehicles and Equipment                      7.5       17.6         25.1          31.0       71.0        102.0            70
Operating Costs                             2.2        3.4          5.6           9.tl      14.0         23.0           60
Local Personnel                             5.6        -            5.6          23.Ct       -           23.0             0
SUBTOTAL                             15.3       21.0         36.3           63.C-   85.0           148.0           58             1.8
STALL FATTENING
Livestock and Equipment                    63.5        0.7         64.2         259.0         3.0        262.0            1
Operating Coasts                            5.1        7.6         12.7          21.0       31.0         52.0            60
Local Personnel                            19.0        -           19.0          77.0        -           77.0             0
SUBJTOTAL                            87.6         8.3        95.9         357.0        34.0        391.0            9             4.9
INIDENTIFIED                                 60.9       61.0        121.9         249,0      249.0        498.0            50            6.2
SMALL DAMS
Vehicles and Equipment                     19.0       62.0         81.0          78.0      253.0        331.0            76
Civil Works                                35.7       57.6         93.3         146.0      235.0        381.0            62
Operating Costs                            22.6       27.1         49.7          92.0      110.0        202.0           55
Local Personnel                           103.6        -          103.6         422.0        -          422.0             °
Expatriate Staff                            -         58.0         58.0           -        237.0        237.0           100
Health Survey                               2.5        9.9         12.4          10.0       41.0         51.0            80
SUBTOTAL                            183.4      214.6        398.0          748.0      876.0      1,624.0           54           20.4
OPEN WELLS
Vehicles and Equipment                     50.4      159.5        209.9         207.0      650.0        857.0            76
Operating Costs                            55.8       74.0        129.8         230.0      300.0        530.0           57
Local Personnel                            72.0        -           72.0         293.0        -          293.0             0
SUBTOTAL                            178.2      233.5        411.7          730.0     950.0      1,680.0            57           20.9
PUMP INSTALLATION
Vehicles and Equipment                     28.8       92.2        121.0         118.0      376.0         494.O           76
Operating Costs                            10.2       13.5         23.7          42.0       55.0         97.0            57
Local Personnel                             7.9        -            7.9          32.0        -           32.0             0
SUBTOTAL                             46.9      10 5.7        152.6         192.0     431.0         623.0           69             7.7
BOREHOLES UNIT
Vehicles and Equipment                     28.5      139.1        167.6         116.0      568.0        684.0            83
Operating Costs                            31.6       41.9         73.5         129.G      171.0        300.0            57
Local Personnel                             8.5        -            8.5          35.0        -           35.0             0
Expatriate Staff                            -         58.0         58.0           -        237.0        237.0           100
SUBTOTAL                             68,6      239.0         307.6         280.0      976.0      1,256.0           78          13,9
PROJECT SUPPORTING SERVICES
Vehicles and Equipment                      4.6       18.6         23.2          19.0       76.0          95.0           80
Civil Works                                 9.7        8.9         18.6          41.0       35.0         76.0            48
Operating Costs                            47.9       30.1         78.0         194.0      125.0        319.0            46
Local Personnel                            67.2        -           67.2         274.0        -          274.0             0
Expatriate Staff                           39.2      157.0        196.2         160.0      642.0        802.0            8Q
SUBTOTAL                             168.6     214.6         383.2         688.0      878.0      1,566.0           56           17,2
TOTAL BASE COST                             884.9   1,158.2       2,043.1        3,610.0   4,730.0      8,340.0            57         100.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)                 88.5      115.8        204.3          370.0      470.0        840.0           57
Expected Price Increases (15%)              149.5      198.1        347.6          610.4      800.0      1,420.0           57
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        1,122.9   1,472.1       2,595.0        4,600.0  65,000.0    10,600.0             57
0E W81ICH TAXES                             230.8        -          230.8         940.0         -          940.0
TOTAL NET OF TAXES                          892.1   1,472.1       2,364.2       3,660.0   6,000.0       9,660.0



- 17 -
4.04      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$7.0 million be made to
finance 72% of project costs net of taxes and duties. The credit would
cover the equivalent of the foreign exchange cost estimated at CFAF 1,470
million (US$6.0 million), and 27% of local costs amounting to CFAF 245 mil-
lion (US$1.0 million). The balance of project costs net of taxes and duties
(CFAF 660 million, or US$2.7 million) would be met by Government (CFAF 640
million or US$2.6 million), and by beneficiaries (CFAF 20 million or US$0.1
million) in the market gardening and stall fattening subprojects (Annex 9,
Table 6). In addition, while not included in project costs, farmers would
contribute unpaid voluntary labor valued at about CFAF 7.3 million (US$30,000)
for bottomland development.
4.05      During negotiations it has been agreed that the IDA Credit and
Government contribution, except salaries of local personnel which would
continue to be directly paid, would be passed on as grants to an account
opened by FONADER in the name of FSAR. FSAR would, upon approved annual
implementation programs and budgets, channel these funds as grants to the
services or units charged with subproject execution. Each executing service
or unit would be required to maintain individual subproject accounts. Tle
Government's annual contribution to proJect financing would be shown separately
in the ministerial budget concerned, and would be transferred in quarter:Ly
instalments to the FSAR account. A condition of effectiveness would be that
Government had made an advance payment of CFAF 50 million (US$200,000)
into the FSAR account, which would constitute a revolving fund to be admin-
istered by FSAR for prefinancing essential project expenditures. Cash contri-
butions to project costs by beneficiaries would be: (i) in the case of
the market gardening subproject, collected by FSAR, Maroua, and passed on
directly to HS and RES, as appropriate (para 3.06); and (ii) on-farm invest-
ments in the stall fattening subproject (para 3.11).
C. Cost Recovery
4.06      The possibility of repeating activities supported under the pro-
posed project, especially village water supply schemes, depends on success
in recovering, to the extent feasible, the largest share of investment and
maintenance costs from the beneficiaries and the local communities involved.
Government would therefore implement under terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA a pilot cost recovery scheme, along the lines summarized below and
and detailed in Annex 10. In the bottomland development subproject, invest-
ment and maintenance costs of water control works, an estimated US$40 annually
per family, would be recovered from beneficiaries under provision of the
"cahiers des charges" which is currently enforced in the SEMRY project
(Credit 302-CM) to the satisfaction of the Association; (in addition, bene-
ficiaries would provide voluntary labor for canal cleaning and bund refec-
tion). In the small dams subproject, the maintenance costs of the dams would
be covered by the beneficiaries and their communities. The beneficiaries would
provide voluntary labor, or alternatively the equivalent cash amounts, re-
quired for periodic cleaning and weeding of the reservoir; local communities
would make adequate budget appropriations to cover other related monetary
expenditures. Typically, maintenance of a dam would require about 500 man-



- 18 -
days per year for reservoir cleaning and weeding and about US$1,200 for other
monetary expenditures. To meet such monetary expenditures, a local community
would have the choice based on its priorities of deferring or curtailing other
budgeted expenditures or raising additional taxes. In the wells, pumps and
boreholes subprojects, the beneficiaries and their communities would provide,
as part of their contribution to investment costs, the whole of initial pump
capital cost; and in addition would cover thie costs of operating, maintaining
and replacing the facilities. Again, the local communities would have the
choice of reallocating budgeted expenditures or raising additional tax reve-
nues to meet theLr shares of these expenditures. The above cost recovery
guidelines were agreed upon during negotiations and Government has further
undertaken to submit to IDA not later than April 30, 1978--i.e. together with
the first village water supply investment program--the required specific
implementation measures. These should be satisfactory to the Association.
Government has also agreed to implement an adequate monitoring system that
would help to better gauge the financial implications of the proposed cost-
recovery scheme. By June 30, 1980, Government and IDA would review progress
in the pilot cost:-recovery scheme and discuss possible improvements. An
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
D.  Procurement
4.07      Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Group guidelines. ICB
would involve civil works, vehicles and equipment for a total of about CFAF
870 million (US$3.6 million). To the extent feasible, purchases of vehicles,
equipment and materials would be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to
permit bulk procurement. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a
preference of 15% or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower,
when comparing domestic with foreign bids. Contracts for US$100,000 equivalent
or less, which would not exceed CFAF 280 million (US$1.1 million), which would
not be large enough to attract international bids, would be awarded under
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Ten small dams would be constructed over a four-year
period (para 3.14). Given the low cost per dam (about CFAF 11 million, or
US$45,000), constrcuction works in such remote areas would not be attractive to
contractors, and would therefore be carried out on force account by RES.
Expatriate staff and consulting services costing about CFAF 430 million
(US$1.7 million) would be obtained according to IDA's Guidelines for Consulting
Services.
E. Disbursement
4.08      The proceeds of the IDA credit wou:Ld be disbursed to cover, net of
taxes and duties:
(a)  CATEGORY I:  60% of Civil Works, defined as (a) construction
costs of the bottomland subproject; (b) construction costs and



- 19 -
access roads for the dams subproject; and (c) construction of
FSAR offices and workshop rehabilitation at Maroua -- US$0.5
million.
(b)  CATEGORY II:  100% of foreîgn expenditures, or 85% of local
costs if procured locally, of Vehicles and Equipment Costs --
US$2.4 million;
(c)  CATEGORY III:  60% of Operating Costs, other than local
personnel -- US$1.0 million; and
(d)  CATEGORY IV:  100% of Expatriate Staff costs, including
benefits and housing allowances -- US$1.4 million.
US$1.7 million, which includes US$0.3 million for as-yet-unidentified proj-
ects, would be unallocated. Disbursements against (a), (b), and (d) above
would be fully documented. Disbursements against (c) would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures certified by the FSAR Director and
FONADER's Director General, with the supporting documentation retained by
FSAR and made available for inspection during IDA project supervision mis-
sions. An estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 9, Table 5.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.09      FSAR accounts would be maintained and audited separately from
FONADER's other accounts. FSAR would set up an accounting system which
would reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained and sound prac-
tices, a true and fair view of the operations and financial position of FSAR.
Each executing service or unit would keep separate accounts for the subproj-
ects under their implementation. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government that: (a) FSAR accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the auditors' report woulcl be
submitted by FONADER to IDA within four months of the close of each project
financial year; (c) the auditors' reports would be of such scope and details
as IDA may reasonably have requested; and (d) FONADER would furnish such
other information concerning FSAR activities as IDA may reasonably have re-
quired. The project would provide for the cost of audit fees. Audit terims
of reference are at Annex 12.
V. FARMERS' BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT
A. Farmers' Benefits from Productive Subprojects
5.01      About 2,400 farm families would obtain direct benefits in the form
of salable or consumable farm products from the bottomland development (paddy),



- 20 -
market gardening (onions and other vegetables), and stall fattening (cattle)
subprojects. Incremental production would be as follows: (i) in the bottom-
land development subproject, 275 ha would be put under cultivation, for an
overall increase in output of some 580 tons of paddy per annum in PY 4 (the
estimated yield of 2.5 t/ha allows for insufficient rainfall in one year in
five -- Annex 3); (iî) in the market-gardening subproject, the cultivated
area would be about 250 ha, producing some 600 tons of onions (or other
vegetables) in PY 4 (Annex 4); and (iii) in the stall fattening subproject,
about 2,000 individual credits would be made during the project period, i.e.,
1,000 at full development in PY 4. The offtake of 1,000 fully grown quality
steers per year is equivalent to 1% of the traditional offtake in the whole
of the Northern Province (Annex 5).
5.02      At full development, about 100 farm families would participate
in the market gardening scheme, 275 in the bottomland development, and 2,000
in the stall fattening subproject. In most cases, particularly the mountain
villagers participating in the stall fattening scheme, project beneficiaries
are among the poorest inhabitants of Cameroon, with an average income per
capita of about US$40 equivalent. Farm budgets are analysed in Annexes 3,
4 and 5, and results summarized below show that farmers would have adequate
incentives to participate in project activities:
(a) Bottomland development: the net value of production would
rise from CFAF 23,500 to CFAF 68,500 (US$96 to 280) per
family; net cash returns per man-day would rise from
CFAF 1,200 to CFAF 2,400 (US$4.90 to 10.00);
(b) Market gardening: the net value of production would rise
from CFAF 48,000 to CFAF 205,000 (US$195 to 840) per family;
net cash returns per man-day would rise from CFAF 317 to
CFAF 1,400 (US$1.30 to 5.70);
(c)  Stall fattening:  the net value of production would rise from
CFAF 30,000 to CFAF 98,000 (US$120 to 400) per family; net cash
returns per man-day would rise from CFAF 147 (US$0.60) to
CFAF 265 (US$1.08).
B. Financial Implications for Government
5.03      About 60% of project costs relate to investments in water supply
for human and animal consumption and would generate little, direct financial
returns to Goverrment. The same applies to the three productive subprojects
-- bottomland development, market gardening and stall fattening. The cash
flow estimates (Annex 9, Table 7), following the cost recovery proposals (para
4.06), assume an annual recovery of recurrent cost, related mostly to the
village water supply program, amounting to iCFAF 65 million (US$265,000).
Annual recovery of investment is estimated at CFAF 51 million (US$210,000).
As from 1982, Government would therefore generate an annual surplus of about
US$200,000; FONADER would also have recovered most of the credit fund
(US$490,000) whi.ch would then be available for a continuation of credit
operations.



- 21 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Productive Subprojects
6.01      Economic rates of return have been estimated as follows:  bottom-
land development 22% (Annex 3, Table 5); market gardening 20% (Annex 4, Table
3); stall fattening 34% (Annex 5, Table 4). The overall economie rate of
return for these three subprojects is 26%, or 18% including their share of
supporting services cost. They represent :31% of total project cost. The
sensitivity of these rates of return has been tested against alternative
changes in costs and benefits, and overall results indicate that the three
subprojects would be eco-omically justified under such changes as may be
reasonably expected. However, in the marketing gardening subproject, the
rate of return appears to be more sensitive than in the other two subproj-
ects; e.g., a 10% reduction in benefits would lower the rate to 10%, which
would still be satisfactory. But such an adverse situation is not expected
to arise since investments under the project would eliminate the most limit-
ing factor on production -- availability of water during the dry-seasorL--,
and would therefore induce a high degree of farmer participation in sub-
project activities. This conclusion is further supported by the experience
in production and marketing of onions and vegetables that farmers already
have.
B. Village Water Supply
6.02      Limited access to even subsistence levels of safe water supp:Ly for
human use is a critical if non-monetary characteristic of rural poverty in
the project area. For the 600,000 rural inhabitants and their livestock
affected by the dams, open wells, pumps, and boreholes subprojects, present
water availability (Annex 7) is estimated at less than 15 liters per day.
Waterpoints in working order throughout the dry season are located at an
average distance of 3 km from the villages, rising to over 5 km in the moun-
tain areas. Few of the existing open wells are safe from waterborne diseases.
6.03      The major benefit of the water supply component would be an improve-
ment in the quality of life for about 120,000 rural families. By rehabilita-
ting 600 open wells, of which 60 would be capped and the others protected by
improved retaining walls, and providing about 430 boreholes equipped with
pumps, the project would generate three kinds of benefits: (i) improvement of
water supply safety e.g. 30% of all water points would be permanently sealed;
in addition, Government would set up a health surveillance mechanism in the
small dams subproject area; (ii) increased overall water availability, to over
25 liters per capita per day, part of which would induce some increase in
human consumption since limited grazing land and not water supply is the main
constraint on livestock expansion; and (iii) increased amenity of fetching
water, a particular benefit to rural women, through reduction of average



- 22 -
round-trip water carrying distances from a]n estimated 6 km before to 3.5 km
after project completion.
C.  Institutions
6.04      The project is expected to have a major institutional impact
which can be summarized as follows. FONADER would be strengthened by (a)
creating a FSAR unit as a much needed fund.--channelling mechanism for rural
investment operations, with the capability for effective project preparation
and supervision; (b) establishing, managing and supervising credit schemes
for small farmers, that would provide the nucleus for FONADER's credit ope_ra-
tions in the future; and (c) implementing a reporting and monitoring system,
as well as procurement and accounting procedures, that would be generally
applied within FONADER. The Hydrogeological Service of the Ministry of Mines
and Energy, Garoua Section, would be reinforced and further trained in the
drilling of procLuction boreholes. The Rural Engineering Service of the Min-
istry of Agriculture in the four project area departments would be equipped
and their equipmnent and works maintenance facilities reorganized to carry
out village water supply programs. Finally, the Extension Services of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock would have their agents trained in
management of small farmer credit schemes. The proposed IDA credit would
therefore contribute to: (i) the effective channelling and use of investment
funds; and (ii) the development of planning and implementation capabilities
in the rural sector, through the provisions for project preparation, monitor-
ing and evaluation, and for on-the-job training of local staff.
D. Risks
6.05      Given the difficulties of procurement and transport to remote
areas, the limited working season for heavy drilling and construction, and
the problem of timely recruitment of skilled labor and supervisors in short
supply, any dela.y in the appointment of key project staff and consultants
would adversely affect project implementation. Intensive efforts, including
possible recourse to APMU (para 3.23) would therefore be made to ensure timely
appointment of internationally recruited staff. On the other hand, since the
proposed project would consist of at least five independent subprojects, the
failure of one of these would not have serious repercussions on the others.
6.06      The 10 small dams for human and animal water supply would be con-
structed (Annex 6) in an area where waterborne diseases are endemic. Stagnant
surfaces might contribute to the spread of such diseases. This risk should be
balanced against the health hazard represented by the scarce and contaminated
water currently available to the dams subproject beneficiaries in the dry
season. However, to reduce this risk and m.onitor possible health effects,
the project would (a) finance a survey into waterborne diseases in the area,
including appropriateness, cost and availability of preventive and/or curative



- 23 -
treatment; (b) take steps during design and construction to restrict animal
access to water; and (c) advise villagers on proper water use. In addition,
Government health services would set up a surveillance mechanism to monitor
the situation and take adequate control measures (para 3.17).
6.07      The water control technique proposed for the bottomlands develop-
ment subproject is so far untried in the project area. Moreover, the sound--
ness of certain hydrological and soil data remains to be tested. One con-
sequence is that the incidence and effect of very low rainfall years, when
the reservoir bottomland may not flood at all, cannot be precisely estimated.
Such risks are partially accounted for in the yield assumption made in the
farm budget and economic analysis in Annex 3.
6.08      The credit scheme for stall fattening is so far untried in the
Mandara mountains and indeed in Cameroon. Inevitably there would be risks
of failure. First, implementation would imply altering traditional cattle
fattening patterns. Although there is ample evidence of farmers' interest
in developing commercial fattening, some difficulties would have to be
overcome, in particular those derived from changes in customary practices
which would require the replacement of steers by smaller livestock. Second,,
since fattened cattle could be sold in non-controlled markets, credit recov--
ery may also be somewhat risky. However, the influence of traditional leaders
and community pressure for repayment by participating farmers is expected to
be very considerable and, as such, would tend to counter possible credit
recovery problems. These considerations, together with the fact that the
credit scheme would provide a unique opportunity for the Mandara mountain
farmers to start diversifying their economy and substantially increasing their
incomes, counterbalance the risks noted above.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i)  concerning bottomland development, not later than December 31,
1977, SEMRY would create an implementation unit within its
organization (para 3.04);
(ii)  concerning market gardening and stall fattening, (a) loans
would be granted under terms and conditions described in
paras 3.06 and 3.11, respectively, (b) credit during the
project period would be limited to finance hand- or pedal-
operated pumps (para 3.06); and (c) not later than December
31, 1977, FONADER would set up within FSAR a credit unit in
Maroua to implement both subprojects (paras 3.09 and 3.11);
(iii)  concerning the small dams subproject, (a) not later than
December 31, 1977, RES would create an implementation unit
(DCU) in Maroua (para 3.15);



- 24 -
(iv)  concerning the village water supp]Ly program, not later than
December 31, 1977, RES would create a pump installation and
maintenance unit at Maroua (para :3.20);
(v) proposails for subprojects to be fiinanced under the allocation
for un:Ldentified would be preparecd by FSAR following the
criteria detailed in para 3.22, anid submitted to IDA for
approval (para 3.22);
(vi)  not later than December 31, 1977, FONADER would enter into
operati'onal agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with each of
the Ministries concerned with project execution (para 3.23);
(vii)  (a) al] internationally recruited key project staff would be
employed under terms of reference and would have qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA; and (b) the FSAR Director,
the Credit Manager and the Accountant would be appointed after
consultation with IDA (para 3.25);
(viii)  (a) Government would implement within the bottomland develop-
ment, small dams and village water supply subprojects a pilot
cost recovery scheme acceptable to IDA, along the lines proposed
in para 4.06; (b) by June 30, 1978, would submit to IDA satis-
factory measures to meet these requirements; and (c) by June 30,
1980, Governnent and IDA would review progress in the pilot
cost recovery scheme (para 4.06); and
(ix)  FSAR accounts would be established', maintained and audited as
specified in para 4.09.
7.02       Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(i) FSAR had been created under terms acceptable to IDA (para
3.23);
(ii)  the FSAR Director, and the FSAR chiief operations officer had
been appointed (para 3.25); and
(iii)  Government had made an advance payment of CFAF 50 million
(US$200,000) into the FSAR account to set up a revolving
fund (para 4.05).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$7 million.



ANNEX 1
Page  1
CANEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
The Project Area
1.        The proposed project, the first to be implemented under the Cameroon
RDF, would comprise the four Northern Province departments of Diamare, Margui-
Wandala, Mayo-Danay and Logone et Chari -- al of the country north of the 100
parallel.  This area, covering some 30,000 km 2(see Map), has a popilation of
about 1.1 million (85% rural), averaging 33/km but exceeding 50/km in the
Manda a mountains and in the plains of Maroua, Bogo and Mora, and falling to
10/km in the Department of Logone et Chari.
2.        North of Pouss-Mora, the climate is Sahelian, with an average annual
rainfall of 400 - 800 mm and a dry season of six-seven months; to the souith,
where most of the project operations would be located, the climate is Sudlan-
type with six dry months (November - April) with average annual rainfall of
800 mm.  Temperatures at Maroua vary between 250 and 330C.  In the area's
western mountains, soils are derived from Precambrian granites and metamorphic
crystalline rocks, whereas the quaternary sediments to the east and north are
overlaid with alluvial soils.
3.        The bulk of the rain falls during about 50 days between July and
September, making the provision of water for human consumption as well as
for agricultural and livestock needs during the rest of the year a major
problem for the area. Exploitable groundwater exists in the quaternary
deposits, but in the mountains the only practical solution lies in the
creation of small dams (Annex 6). The rivers (mayos) cease to flow in the
dry season and cause widespread flooding in the wet season before draining
into the Logone.
4.        Apart from some tourism (Waza National Park and Mandara mountains),
agriculture and livestock husbandry are the main economic activities of the
project area. Sorghum and millet are the principal food crops and, where
water-retaining soils exist, two crops are grown, one in the rainy season
(May-October) and the second in October-November. Total annual production
of sorghum and millet in the four departments averages some 230,000 tons
or about 70% of national production. Seed cotton (about 50,000 tons in
1975-76) has so far been the most important cash crop but, following the
Sahelian drought, it has been partly replaced by groundnuts. The region's
livestock herd already exceeds the carrying capacity (4-5 ha/AU) of the
available rangeland, and is seriously competing with crop farming expansion.
5.        The main services of the Ministry of Agriculture are present
throughout the project area. However, the Extension Service (AES) is in-
adequately staffed -- one field agent to about 7,000 farmers -- and the



ANNEX 1
Page 2
lack of operating funds further diminishes the AES's mobility and effec-
tiveness. The Rural Engineering Service (RES) is mainly concerned with
well construction and maintenance, and also undertakes other rural works;
budgetary constraints and old and unserviceable equipment considerably limit
the scale of the RES's operations. The Ministry of Livestock has services
responsible for animal production and sanitary protection, respectively;
both of these have been largely inefficient because of a chronic shortage
of operating funds and lack of qualified staff.  Following reorganization
in June 1976, increasing emphasis is being given to animal production.
6.        The town of Maroua (population 50,000), capital of the Diamare
department, is an important market center, with an airport providing daily
services to Yaounde.  Of the main North-Scuth axis road, Garoua - Maroua -
Kousseri, the section Wasa-Mora - Maroua, :is paved, and the Maroua - Figuil
Section is being improved. Most secondary links are earth roads which dete-
riorate rapidly during the rainy season.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
The Institutional Framework
A. The Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
Origin and Constitution
1.        FONADER was established by a ministerial order (73/24) in May 1973
and by an implementing decree (73/496) in August of the same year. Within
the broadly defined objective of "promoting economic and social development
in rural areas," FONADER was assigned the specific tasks of:
(i) providing financial assistance to farmers, either
individually or in groups, for productive investments
within the framework of the National Plan;
(ii) carrying out or causing to be carried out specific
rural development projects deemed to be in the public
interest, on behalf of local authorities or other
groups; and
(iii) guaranteeing loans made by other credit institutions
to individuals or groups in the agricultural and live-
stock sectors.
FONADER was made a separate legal and financial entity, under the overal1
supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, but with administrative auto-
nomy.
2.        FONADER was intended as a replacement organization for certain
activities of the Experimental Modernisation Sectors (SEM), the regional
rural development authorities which had been responsible for providing in-
puts, extension services, and marketing facilities for particular crops or
areas.  Most of these SEM's had been dissolved in an effort to rationalize
agricultural services under a national administration. This involvecl:
(a) making the field services of the Ministries of Agriculture and Live-
stock directly responsible for the provision of all extension services,
including pest and disease control, seed multiplication, and others, in
addition to their normal monitoring and advisory functions; (b) empowering
FONADER to engage in a wide range of rural operations including fert-ilizer
and pesticide distribution, and construction of water supply and irrigation
facilities; whilst it was also to become a specialized agricultural ,-redit
institution.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        From the beginning, therefore, FONADER has had a dual responsibil-
ity for organizing and implementing on a national scale both rural invest-
ment projects and agricultural credit operations. With its limited staff,
which has been based almost exclusively in Yaounde, FONADER has relied heav-
ily on other governmental field services for project execution, direct proj-
ect supervision, and to a large extent project and credit assessment. Most
of FONADER's present weaknesses stem from the difficulties of accomplishing
its two quite different functions, without the necessary human resources and
adequate organizational structure.
Present OrganizatiLon and Management
4.        FONADER is governed by a Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administra-
tion) composed of representatives of the relevant government departments and
parastatal organizations and chaired by the Minister of Agriculture or his
representative. The Board must approve the annual work program, budget and
accounts, and any loan above CFAF 5 million (US$20,000).
5.        The Dire!ctor General of FONADER is nominated by ministerial decree
and acts as Secretary to the Board of Directors. He is responsible for day-
to-day management including staff selection, and is the sole legal represen-
tative of the institution.
6.        FONADER is organized into a Directorate General, a Directorate for
Finance and Administration, and two operational directorates. Total staff
numbered 142 at end-1976, of which some 45 are in supervisory and/or profes-
sional posts. The Directorate General includes the Deputy Director-General,
two assistants, and four internationally recruited advisors, three of whom
are assigned to credit operations (two are financed through the Bank assisted
Livestock Project, Loan 983-CM), and one heads a small research section. The
Credit Directorate is currently managed by a Deputy Director, assisted by a
Service Chief. Four small specialized sections, each managed by a Head of
Section, handle separate categories of potential borrowers: Development Com-
panies (e.g. SODEPA, SEMRY), Individuals, Precooperative Groups, and Coopera-
tives. Total professional staff, excluding the three advisors, numbers only
15, and all work at headquarters in Yaounde. This Directorate is responsible
for processing loan applications and submitting proposals to the Director
General or through him to the Board.
7.        Disbursement and recovery are the responsibility of the Directorate
for Administration and Finance. Under a Director and a Deputy-Director, five
sections are responsible, respectively, for procurement, accounts, personnel,
equipment and general administration. Also, four provincial accounting
officers have recently been assigned to work within the Provincial Delegations
of the Ministry of Agriculture. This Directorate, in addition to personnel,
accounting and budgeting, is responsible for all loan transactions from regis-
tration of the loan agreement, through procurement, recovery and initiating
legal proceedings against defaulters. Moreover, it carries out all the
equipment procurement, disbursement, and accounting required by the "direct
rural interventions" planned by the directorate described in para 8 below.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.         The Directorate for Rural Operations under a Director and Deputy
Director has Agricultural and Livestock sections. It is responsible for
designing and supervising the annual work program for investment projects
and subsidized sales to be implemented by the field services of the minis-
tries concerned. This includes the cocoa and coffee pesticide programs,
subsidized fertilizer distribution, construction of village and pastoral
wells, livestock vaccination stations, seed multiplication and research,
and other projects. In addition, they may 'be requested to provide advice
or specialized supervision for specific credit operations. The Directorate
numbers only some 10 professional staff.
Resources and Outlays
9.         Under its present Constitution, FONADER does not have its own
capital base. Its main source of financing is an annual government subsidy
transferred from the surplus deposited with the Treasury by the cocoa and
coffee stabilization funds. The amount is determined annually as part cf
the regular government budget exercise, with reference to the work program
submitted by FONADER and the views of the beneficiary organizations, but
especially to the (exogenously determined) volume of the stabilization fund
surplus. In addition, FONADER receives an annual subsidy towards its oper-
ating expenses (CFAF 200 million or US$0.8 million) from Government; and
disbursements from Bank Loans 983-CM (Livestock Project), 1039-CM (Cocoa
Project) which are both passed on by Government as grants (CFAF 102 and 115
million or US$420,000 and US$470,000, respectively, are budgeted for FY77).
Finally, the proceeds of subsidized sales of crop-spraying equipment and other
material to farmers, and reimbursements of loan interest and principal l(CFAF
400 and 450 million, or US$1.6 and 1.8 million, respectively), are also
allocated to FONADER.
10.        FONADER, although legally able to, has not contracted for any bor-
rowings, and may not accept deposits. Moreover, so far it has not guaran-
teed loans made by other institutions.  However, it can and does arrange
overdraft facilities with commercial banks to cover its requirements between
the beginning of the fiscal year and the receipt of the first instalments
of the Stabilization Fund subsidy.
11.        FONADER's outlays for the financial years 1974/5 and 1975/6 are
listed at Table 1.  Again, the largest share of the outlays is earmarked
for the subsidized "intervention" programs; coffee and cocoa pesticides
and replanting, village water supplies, subsidized fertilizer sales, and
others.
12.        However, credit operations are growing rapidly as a proportion
of overall outlays: loans for CFAF 1,022 million (US$4.1 million) in 1974/
75, loans for CFAF 1,154 million (US$4.7 million) budgeted in 1975/76, and



ANNEX 2
Page 4
budgeted loans l'or CFAF 1,618 million (US$6.6 million) in 1976/77. 1/ This
rapid rate of growth is currently financed out of the subsidy from Stabiliza-
tion Funds. The applied rates of interest of 4.75% to 10% (in the case of the
World Bank-financed livestock credit schemes), fall far short of the credit
administration costs; and recovery rates are poor (para 18 below).
13.       In addition to its main areas of operation, FONADER is also
directly responsible for the execution of aL number of unrelated subprojects.
For instance, it: owns small (and unprofitable) rice mills and cassava plants,
of which it is trying to divest itself during FY 1977 and 1978.
Review of Operations, 1974-76
14.       From the above, it is apparent that FONADER, as presently consti-
tuted, functions not so much as an agricultural investment and credit bank
but as a financial turntable for routing Government funds to Government
departments and public corporations, with a degree of control over disburse-
ment and procurement but without the necessary resources to insure adequate
assessment and supervision for such a diverse array of activities located
throughout the country.
15.       Even in terms of a vehicle for transferring government subsidies,
it suffers from serious constraints imposedl by being obliged to meet the
liquidity requirements of a private company whilst depending on cumbersome
central budgetary channels for its annual injection of funds. At the ex-
treme, this results in substantial short-term borrowings on commercial
terms to finance a resource gap of sometimes over six months. Since
neither FONADER nor most of the recipients of FONADER subsidies are per-
mitted to carry over uncommitted budget allocations from year to year, this
results in wide discrepancies between budgeted and actual outlays. In some
instances, but not only for this reason, procurement is subject to often
long delays and the rate of project implementation suffers accordingly.
16.       As a credit institution, FONADER's potential is limited by its
lack of technically qualified personnel and in particular the absence of
field supervisors located in the provinces, e.g. the project area. Hence
it relies almost entirely on the field services of the Ministries of Agri-
culture and Livestock, in conjunction with departmental administrations, for
most supervision of crucial points of the loan cycle: initial candidate
selection, loan appraisal, organization of local procurement and disburse-
ment, follow-up of implementation, loan recovery and control of overdues.
Within the constraints imposed by its liquidity position (para 15), FONADER
provides these field services with incremental equipment (e.g. motorcycles)
and operating funds.
1/   Out of 935 loans granted in 1975/76, over two-thirds are in the Northern
Province, accounting for about 30% of commitments.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       However, individual administrative and technical services in the
regions implement the FONADER lending program with existing manpower and
resources which are subject to other commitments. Objectives and assess-
ment are not homogenous, procedures for monitoring execution are not well
established, and the lack of clearly defined responsibilities at locaL level
encourages neglect or abuse of standardized guidelines determined in Yïaounde.
Lastly, since each application requires the ultimate approval of the Director
General in person, but with the supporting documentation first established
and then transmitted through a series of administrative channels outside
FONADER, delays and errors reach serious levels. This means, for instance,
that the small credit staff at headquarters has difficulty in meeting crop
year deadlines, and also that recovery is usually delayed into the succeed-
ing financial year.
18.       However, a monitoring system for overdues is being implemented.
The overall level of overdues is estimated to be about 15%. Since the
beginning of the expansion of credit activities dates to only 1975, this
figure is probably not a reliable performance indicator. Most seriously,
the main source of overdues appears to be loans to land-owning civil ser-
vants who made up much of FONADER's portfolio in the early stages of launch-
ing its credit program. Conditions of repayment have been tightened for
this category of borrower (reduction of grace period, attachment to sal-
ary) in an effort to redirect loans towards the small full-time farmer,
who offers lower formal guarantees but has a better repayment record.
19.       FONADER pursues a very liberal interest-rate policy, based on a
1.25% margin for commission and tax above the minimum privileged borrowing
rate from the Central Bank. Hitherto it has not needed, nor been authorized
to resort to, central bank rediscounting facilities or other interest-bear-ing
financing. Moreover, its administrative costs are defrayed both by the gov-
ernment operating subsidy and by working through existing government field
personnel for whom it pays only certain operating costs. If FONADER were
to become a rural development bank, however, it is clear that its interest
structure, like its manpower resources, would have to be considerably modi-
fied.
Proposed Reorganization of FONADER
20.       The shortcomings of FONADER's existing structure in relaticin to
the burden of responsibilities it was expected to undertake have beerL fully
recognized by the FONADER's management and the Government. In late 1.975,
this led to proposals for reorganization aimed at concentrating FONADER's
resources on agricultural credit, by (a) enabling it to accept deposits
and rediscount loans, whilst still managing some Government subsidies; and
(b) establishing a network of regional offices which could eventually develop
into full branch banks.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
21.       Assistance from the European Deve:Lopment Fund was requested for a
study by external consultants on the organizational and financial implica-
tions of this shift of emphasis.  However, before the study was to begin,
a draft decree amending FONADER's constitution was prepared for submission
to the National Assembly during November 1976, and a number of government
departments have questioned the advisabilitr of expanding FONADER's banking
activities until agreement is reached on a dletailed plan for reallocating
its present responsibilities for the managernent of subsidy funds to other
agencies.
22.       The draft decree is now to be re-examined by a panel chaired by
the blinister of Agriculture. Pending its findings, and the eventual imple-
mentation of a complete reorganization program, it is assumed that for all
practical purposes the existing structure will continue during the project
period. However, should FONADER be reorganized during the said period,
assurances have been given that Government would consult IDA on the conse-
quences of such reorganization on FSAR's activities and on the RDF project
objectives.
The RDF Project and FONADER
23.       Annex 8 sets out the conclusions for RDF project organization
that stem from the above analysis of FONADER's present structure and
effectiveness and the uncertainties as to its future role. For FONADER
as a whole, the addition of the Fonds Specia:L d'Actions Rurales (FSAR)
with its self-contained management and finance capabilities, will not
give rise to a ma:jor change in the short term.  In fact, it is essential
for FSAR to remain independent of ongoing FONADER activities in areas not
covered by the project, in order to ensure the successful implementation
and monitoring of an already heavy project work program.
24.       However, the project is designed so as to provide FONADER in the
future with two new management resources. Fiirstly, the FSAR itself, re-
sponsible for preparing a follow-up RDF project under Cameroonian direction,
would lay the foundations for an effective project identification and super-
vision capability for future rural investment: operations. Secondly, the
experience gained in establishing and managing credit schemes for small
farmers within the project, using new procedures developed under the project,
would benefit FONADER's credit operations in the future. The documentation
and accounting met:hods, modified where necessary, as well as procurement
procedures, could become of general application within FONADER. Moreover, a
Cameroonian manager, originally assigned from FONADER and trained in the
field, would be available, with adequate supporting staff to open a future
regional office. The project would be achieving a significant institution-
building objective without compromising the choices for FONADER's ultimate
role and organization.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
B. Government Field Services, Northern Province
Ministry of Mines and Energy, Hydrogeological Service (HS)
25.       For HS, the primary responsibility in village water supply is
drilling reconnaissance boreholes to decide upon proper open well locat:ion.
Under the ongoing UNDP groundwater project at Garoua, the staff of HS has
been equipped and trained to expand this ftnction, and also to drill and
cap production boreholes and equip some of them with mechanical pumps.
The UNDP project reaches completion in July 1977. The proposed RDF pro-j-
ect would consolidate this experience by strengthening existing equipment
and staff. With further training provided by an internationally recruilted
drilling instructor, the ES northern sector would mainly concentrate on
production boreholes, fulfilling the need for new waterpoints in the proj-
ect area. In addition, HS would continue with exploratory drilling, a re-
sponsibility that is independent of the RDF project.
Ministry of Agriculture: Rural Engineering Service (RES)
26.       RES, with an office in each department, currently centers the
majority of its activities on well construction and rehabilitation, but
suffers from a number of difficulties which have seriously impeded progress
towards fulfilling the Government objectives for village water supply. RES
brigades lack transport and drilling equipment in adequate working order; the
main maintenance workshops are all but inoperative as a result of shortages
of spares and materials and poor organization and supervision; performance of
the well crews is further lowered by uncertainties as to timely availability
of working capital. These and other weaknesses have reached the point at
which UNDP and other aid sources are, or are considering financing their own
well construction units, further weakening RES by drawing away comnpetent
manpower. The proposed project would aim at reversing this trend by main-
taining, equipping and reinforcing RES brigades. Equipment and materials
would be provided within locally determined work programs. An internationalLy
recruited maintenance engineer would organize and supervise equipment main-
tenance and provide on-site assistance to four wells and pumps brigades.
Pump installation and maintenance crews would be added to RES. Finally the
demonstration effect of small dam construction and other project works in
which RES staff would participate would permit the diversification of RES
capabilities after project completion.
Ministry of Agriculture: Community Development Service (CD)
27.       This service of the Ministry of Agriculture, hitherto operating
only in the English-speaking northwest, has had considerable success in pro-
viding support for rural development schemes by mobilizing local participa-
tion and organizing farmer groups. The service is now expanding nationwide,
and its first agents in the north would acquire field experience by being



ANNEX 2
Page 8
assigned full-time to the small dams development subproject, where they would
serve as a link with beneficiary villages advising villagers in techniques for
the proper use of water and monitoring potential health risks. Finally, they
would be availab:Le to help organize a cost-recovery scheme and maintenance
activities for small dams, and wells and pumrps at the village level, from PY 3.
Ministry of Livestock and Ministry of Agriculture General Extension Services
28.       Four local livestock agents and one agricultural extension agent
would be trained in field management of small farmer credit as a full-time
activity, under the credit specialist and manager, but working within their
existing departmental services who would assign them to the project. In the
case of the livestock extension services, this would provide a first contact
in the project area with full-time animal production activities, as against
mainly veterinary work, which would be of lenefit both to their own services
and to FONADER in the future.
C. SEMRY (Societe d'Expansion et de Modernization de la Riziculture de Yagoua)
29.       Originially created as a section of a Government organization engaged
in agricultural development in Northern Cameroon, SEMRY was established as a
public autonomous development corporation in 1971.  Its initial share capital
of CFAF 245 million (US$1.0 million) has been increased to CFAF 800 million in
1976. SEMRY owns irrigated paddy fields along the Logone river but guarantees
the right of usufructs to farmers it supervises.  SEMRY operates and maintains
irrigation works and roads, supplies farmers with inputs, and markets and
processes paddy production. SEMRY has satisfactorily implemented the SEMRY
rice project financed under IDA Credit 302(M (US$3.7 million) which consisted
in developing 4,300 ha for double cropping of rice and improving the liveli-
hood of 2,800 farm families.  In fact, because of good management, strong
Government support and responsive farmers, the appraisal objectives have been
exceeded, reaching 5,300 ha and the 3,400 farm families. SEMRY has staff and
experience to implement and supervise the bottomland development project
included in the proposed project.



CAMEROON                      ANNEX 2
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT            Table 1
THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Resources and Outlays of FONADER _/
Actual       Budgeted 2-        Budgeted
1974/5        1975/6             1976/7
------CFAF Million-----
RESOURCES                    4,021          4,502             6,037
Subsidy from stabilization funds          3,017          3,106             3,945
Government operating subsidy                200            200               200
World Bank:  Loan 1039-CM (Cocoa)            -             122                115
: Loan 983-CM (Livestock)        -              -                 102
Carry-over funds and stocks                 550            550               560
Sales of pesticides                         200            200               400
Reimbursement of loans                       -             230               450
EDF Grant                                                  -                  150
Miscellaneous income                         104            94                115
OUTLAYS                      4,021         4,502              6,037
(1)  SUBSIDIZED OPERATIONS                2,205         2,467              3,645
of which:
cocca program                       (920)         (930)            (1,578)
arabica coffee program              (272)         (273)              (398)
robusta coffee program              (315)         (330)              (430)
fertilizer subsidies                (450)         (450)              (450)
rural water supply program          (150)         (100)              (100)
livestock program                    -             -                 (215)
(2)  LOAN DISBURSEMENTS                   1,022         1,154              ]-,618
of which:
seasonal credit                     (n.a)         (444)              (534)
farm inputs                         (n.a)         ( 80)              (184)
mechanization and farm impr.        (n.a)         (400)              (560)
livestock                           (n.a)         (100)              (200)
miscellaneous                       (n.a)         (100)              (140)
(3)  MISCELLANEOUS AND OPERATIONS 3/        258           247                120
(4) FONADER EQUIPMENT AND OPERATING
BUDGET                                 536           634                654
1/ FY begins July lst.
2/ Approved accounts not yet available.
3/ Includes World Bank cocoa project until 1976/7, when cocoa programns are
merged in subsidized operations budget. From 1976/7, livestock program
also brought into budget.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FIJND PROJECT
Bottomland Development
A. Introduct:ion
1.        Bottomlands in the central zone of lNorthern Province called yaeres
consist of flat poorly drained depressions between sandy dunes. There are
some 12 such yaeres covering a total area of about 4,000 ha situated in the
area bounded by the roads Moulvouday-Kore, Moulvouday-Kalfou, Kalfou-Guidigues
and a line Guidigues-Kore.
2.        Soils in these yaeres are of precdominantly clay type with low per-
meability and suitable for rice cultivation. Farmers have traditionally
grown swamp rice in some of the yaeres but, in the absence of any form of
water control, both the areas cultivated arid the yields obtained have varied
considerably from year to year. It is thought that, before the 1971-73
drought period, some 500 ha of rice were cultivated in these yaeres but the
absence of flooding in the drought years discouraged many farmers and since
then only about 100 ha have been cultivatecl each year.
3.        The yaeres also constitute an important factor in livestock produc-
tion in an area which is heavily overstocked (Annex 5):  as the transhumant
herds move towards the Logone river during the dry season, the supplies of
water and feed to be found in the yaeres make them important intermediate
grazing grounds.
4.        Until recently it had been thought that backflow from the high
stages of the Logone River occurring between September and November were
responsible for the seasonal flooding of the yaeres. l{owever, investiga-
tions conducted by the Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute (IRAF)
on a specific yaere near Kalfou over the period 1973-76 have shown that
there is no correlation between the high stages of the Logone River and
the flooding of the yaeres in the eastern side of the department of Diamare.
Rather, it appears that rainwater over a wi,de catchment area collects first
in the uppermost of a chain of yaeres, which when full spills over into the
next and so on, antil it finally discharges into the Logone river. The IRAF
studies suggest that the highest water levels in the yaeres occur in August/
September some two months after the main rains; thereafter the water-level
drops sharply during the next two to three weeks until the level of the
natural sill is reached, and then falls over a one month period at a steady
and lower rate consistent with losses to be expected from evapotranspira-
tion and percolation, and declines during a final period of three months
at a still lower rate when losses are due to evapotranspiration only. On



ANNEX 3
Page 2
average the area receives about 800 mm of rainfall per year which is heav-
ily concentrated in the months of July, August and September. There are,
however, considerable annual variations both as to quantity and timing.
From October there is a six-month dry season with temperatures reaching
a peak of 32 C in April.
5.        The gross cultivable area of the Moulvouday yaere measured on a
1:20,000 scale uncontrolled photo mosaic appears to be about 300 ha. How-
ever, this data need verification, and Government therefore has agreed
that the Maroua research station of IRAF, with funds provided by FONADER,
should carry out more detailed studies of the 12 yaeres in the defined area
to the west of Moulvouday. These studies are expected to be completed well
before the proposed project becomes effective.
B. The Subproject
Water Works
6z        On the assumption of a gross cultivable of about 300 ha (275 ha
cultivated) in the lower Moulvouday yaere, the subproject would:
(i) build a compacted earth dam to increase the height of
the natural sill between two yaeres west of Moulvouday,
so that the upper yaere can become a reservoir of water
for the lower;
(ii) construct two peripheral canals to supply water for
irrigation purposes in the lower yaere;
(iii) construct a drainage canal along the thalweg of the
downstream yaere to deal with excess flood flows;
(iv)  supervise the field bunding and secondary canal con-
struction by beneficiaries; and
(v) provide basic applied research and extension services
to support swamp rice production.
Details of Engineering Works
7.        Civil works for water control would aim at evacuating peak floods,
and providing controlled storage for supplementary irrigation.  The works
would consist of:
(i)  a 200 m long, rolled earthfill dyke 1.5 m high,
located across the outlet sill of the yaere imme-
diately upstream of the Moulvouday yaere. This
dyke (width 3 m, side slope 3:1) would be equipped



ANNEX 3
Page 3
3imple intake structures filled with timber
gates as hesadworks to the main distr:ibution canals.
J would have a 20 m long central spillway section
protected against erosion by grouted stone pitching;
(ii) main canals giving command of 300 ha. The north bank
canal would be about 4.5 km long with a capacity varying
from 250 i/sec at its head to 35 l/sejc at the tail, and
would command about 185 cultivated ha. The south bank
canal would be about 4 km long with a capacity varying
from 170 l/sec at its head to 35 l/sec in the tail and
would command about 90 ha. Canal des:ign would be based
on a hydrornodule of 1.5 i/sec/ha cont:inuous flow;
(iii) distribution turnouts in reinforced concrete with
timber stoplogs would control the flaow into 12 sec-
ondary canals (capacity 35 1/sec) each commanding
between 20 and 25 ha;
(iv)  a main drain 3.5 km long, 10 m wide and 0.35 m deep,
aligned through3the lowest section of the yaere
(capacity 1.2 m /sec) w1uid pass catchment runoff,
estimated at 3 i/sec/km , through the cultivated area.
Excavated material would be banked up along the drain-
age channel to provide additional flood protection.
The drain would be prolonged 1.5 km downstream of
the outlet sill of the yaere; and
(v)  land preparation would consist tf construction of
field bunds around the 1,000 m paddy fields.
8.        Water control and distribution in the fields would be provided by
laying two 10 cm plastic-pipe culvert drains in each field. These pipes,
1.5 m long, would have grouted stone pitched aprons as inlets and outlets
to prevent erosion. Fields would be filled progressively from upstream and
the water depth in the fields would be retained at about 10 cm. The culverts
would also serve to drain the fields and to control the water level in the
event of flooding or heavy rain. Fields would ba smoothed to eliminate
irregularities and ensure that the whole area bunded could be inundated
evenly. Canals would be hand-excavated in compacted banks 50 cm high to
give maximum command.
Organization
9.        The rolled aarthfill regulating dyke, the compacted canal banks
and the main drainage excavation, as well as alL structures, would be car-
ried out under contract supervised by SEMRY. Canal excavation and land



preparation would be carried out by participatirag farmriers on a vemritary 'as,
directed by subproject staff.  It is anticipatel that sOm. 40,000 m-.nJ-   S/
of voluntary labor would be required to complet,  the works -n an rstsimfacedu 
months construction period.  This represents a labor force of about 280 and
corresponds ta the assumption that each participating farmer would, hae about
1 ha of land. One SEMRY extension agent and one Community Developrient Officer
attached to the subproject would induce farmers to provide Iabor on a volur-
tary basis, and obtain the communities' agreement to distribute plots accord-
ing to work performed by farmers.
10.       An internationally recruited consultant would be engaged for a
total of six months at a cost of CFAF 2 million (US$8,000) per marn.mo-i-t-
including travel expenses -- to review surveys, prepare ciViîL  Orks dwoir,
bidding and contract documents, and supervise construction vork to 1e carried
out by contractors. Existing RES staff at Maroua would provide assistance
as required.
11.       Minor maintenance would be undertaken by participating farmners,
and it would require about 6,000 man-days of voluntary labor annuallv (20
days per participating farmer).  In addition, farmers would participate in
a cost-recovery scheme to cover maintenance of major works, detailed at
Annex 10.
Research and Extension Services
12.       Under present conditions, bottomland rice cultivat`ori is a gam-ble,
so the farmer rightly gives first priority to the cultivat-io-n of food crops
(chiefly millet, and both rainy and dry season sorghum) and coon  ,hich is
the main cash crop of the area. Only if the flooding of the yaere occurs
at a time that permits the farmer to plant ricei without detrim-nt to his
work on the priority crops does he do so.  Rice plots average ahout a hectare
in size.
13.       The planting material presently utilized consists of _,ree unse-
lected local varieties of 150-160 day cycle, and with yields varving between
750 and 1,000 kg/ha. Until it ceased operations in 1973, the Northern Sector
for Rural Experimentation and Modernization (SENNORD) operated a systeri undar
which seed was distributed before the planting season to farmers at the rate
of 80 kg per ha on condition that the farmer repaid in kind 104 kg per ha
after harvest. This was stored in a steel silo (estimated capacity 50 tons)
at Moulvouday, and used as the seed supply for the following season. Ihe
withdrawal of this seed distribution facility rnay well have contri6u.ed to
the reduction in bottomland rice production since 1973.
1/   142 mandays per farm family.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
14.       The subproject would:
(i)  finance applied research at the IR-AF research center
at Maroua to complete on-going tri.als into:
(a)  improved bottomland rice varieties; and
(b) fertilizer usage;
(ii)  operate a rudimentary seed multiplication scheme
utilizing about 15 selected and supervised farmers
who wou:Ld be paid a premium of CFPa? 2 per kg over
the commercial price (currently CEAF 40 to 45 per
kg (US$0.16 to 0.18) of paddy), 1/' provided they
complied with the conditions to be laid down by
IRAF. ]By PY 2 sufficient improved seed (25 tons)
for the estimated available irrigat-ed area (275 ha)
would be available, stored in the silo at Moulvouday,
and distributed to all farmers in PY 3 under similar
conditions to those previously opeirated by SEMNORD;
(iii)  provide one extension agent (Chef de Poste grade)
seconded by SEMRY who would:
(a)  assist the Community Development Service in
mobilizing farmers' participation in bund and
secondary canal construction, and in the sub-
sequent distribution of plots according to
work done;
(b) organize and supervise the seed multiplication
and distribution scheme; and
(c)  encourage the adoption of fertilizer usage and
other improvements that may eimerge from IRAF
research.
15.       The silo at Moulvouday, presently unused and under the departmental
Delegation of the Ministry of Agriculture, would be assigned to and maintained
under the subproject.
1/   A similar system operates under the SEMR]Y project at Yagoua.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Subproject Costs
16.       Subproject costs, based at end-1976 prices, net of identifiable
taxes and duties, are at Table 1 and summarized below:
Category                                              Cost
(CFAF Ilillion) (US$ Thousand)
1.  Civil Works                                86.3             350.0
2.  Equipment and Vehicles                       4.5             20.0
3.  Operation and Maintenance                   8.1              30.0
4.  Extension and Research                       9.6             40.0
5.  Expatriate Staff                            12.0            50.0
Total                                   120.5            490.0
Investment costs per irrigated hectare would be about CFAF 400,000 (US$1,600).
Benefits and Justification
17.       With improved water control, use of better planting material and
fertilizer, paddy yields would be expected to rise from the present 1 t/ha
to an average 2.5 t/ha at full development in PY 4, allowing for greatly
reduced yields in one year in five, due to inadequate water supply in the
yaeres because of insufficient rainfall.  Under the SEIRY project, yields
of up to 4.5 t/ha are currently obtained. Of the total incremental output
of about 600 t by PY 4, 40 t would be consumed on the farms, representing
150 kg per farming family of five. The balance of said incremental output
would be marketed without difficulty at Moulvouday and Maroua.
18.       The illustrative farm family budget (Table 3) shows that the net
value of production would rise from CFAF 23,500 (US$96) to 68,500 (US$280).
If farmer labor contribution of 140 mandays towards construction and land
preparation is valued at the current hired labor rate of CFAF 125 (US$0.5)
per day, it would represent an investment equivalent to CFAF 18,000 (US$70)
which is less than half the incremental net value of production (CFAF 45,000)
(US$184) by PY 5. Project benefits would accrue to participating farmers
whose cash income (after family consumption) would rise from CFAF 17,000
(US$70) to CFAF 61,000 (US$250). The net value of production per man-day
of family labor would increase from CFAF 1,200 (US$4.90) to CFAF 2,400
(US$10.0).
19.       In addition, the subproject would demonstrate a method of water
control that could possibly be extended to other yaere systems and so in-
crease the irrigated area available for cultivation, while continuing to
provide through the upper (storage) yaere water for transhumant cattle.
20.       The subproject yields an economic rate of return of 22% (Table 5),
based on the following main assumptions:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(a)  investment costs include physical contingencies, but
are net of taxes and duties, and cf expected price
increases;
(b) farmer voluntary labor for bund anLd secondary canal
construction costed at 125 CFAF/day (US$0.50);
hired farm labor and incremental farmer's labor
are costed at the opportunity cost. of CFAF 125 per
man-day;
(c) economic farmgate price of paddy b,ased on import
substitution values (Table 4). Cu.rrent local
market prices are about 45 CFAF/kg (US$0.18); and
(d)  a subproject economic life of 20 years.
The rate of return is sensitive to changes in costs and benefits, as shown
below:
Costs         Benefits         Economic Rate of Return
Base:                    100            100                       22
Sensitivity:             110            100                       19
120            100                       17
100             90                       19
100             80                       16
100            110                       25
100            Slippage                  17
one year



CAMEROON                                      ANNEX 3
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT                            Table 1
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Schedule of Implementation and Expenditures
(In end-1976 terms)
Cost
PY1      PY2       PY3       PY4           Total    Local    Foreign    Foreig
1.  Cultivated Area (ha)               -        100       275       275
------------------------------------CFAF Million-----------------------------
2.  Construction                       -    86.332                               86.332   51.799   34.533          40
3.  Equipment
Vehicles 1/                  1.400      -      0.100       -             1.500    0.225    1.275          85
Small tools                    -     1.800    0.600    0.600             3.000    1.050    1.950          65
Subtotal                1.400   1.800    0.700    0.600              4.500    1.275    3.225          72
4. Operation and Maintenance
Materials and labor            -        -      2.450    2.450            4.900    3.430    1.470          30
Vehicle operating 3/         0.244   0.975    0.975    0.975             3.169    1.426    1.743          55
Subtotal                0.244   0.975    3.425    3.425              8.069    4.856    3.213         40
5. Extension and Research
IRAF, seed tests             1.000   1.000    0.800        -             2.800    1.400    1.400          50
Silo maintenance            0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100              0.400    0.140    0.260          65
Extension Agent              1.132   1.132    1.132    1.132             4.528    4.528        -          -
Subtotal                2.232   2.232    2.032    1.232              7.728    6.068    1.660          17
6.  Technical Assistance             4.000   8.000        -         -            12.000       -     12.000        100
7.  Base Cost                        7.876  99.339    6.157    5.257            118.629   63.998   54.631          45
1/ One 3/4 t pickup, one mobylette replaced in PY3.
2/ Approximately 3% per annum of cost of structures.
3/ 15,000 km/year at CFAF 60 for pickup and CFAF 5 for mobylette; 3 months in PYI.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Civil Works Costs
Capacity          Unit volumes         Length               Volume            Unit                       Cost                         y          Voluntary
Compa. :ed   Hard ex-                  Compacted   Exca-         rate         Total         Local        Foreign      Foreign         Labor
Item                                    n_ ban             cavation   _                  bank      vation
1/sec-             3 m -     ---                 m            -------       CFAF         ------- CFAF million ----------                      man-days
A. Earthworks
1.  Regulating dyke                                                          200         3,330                     750           2.498        1.124        1.374        55             550
Hard
2.  Main canals                                                                                      labor
Left bank                      250         2.175       1.085        2,200          4,785       2,387
170         2.025      0.840         1,050         2,126         882
85         1.800      0.550           800         1,440         440
35         1.625      0. q50          550           894         193
Right bank                     170          2.025      0.840         1,800         3,645       1,512
85         1.800      0.550           800         1,440         440
35         -.625      0.350         1,500         2.438         525
16,768      6,380          750         12.578        5.660        6.918         55          6,380
3.  Distributaries                     30         1,622       0.350       10,000        16,250        3,500         750         12.188        5.485         6.703        55          3,500
4.  Main drain                                                                                      Machine
Through Yaere                1,200             -       3.325         3,500            -       11,638
Extension                    1,200             -       5.812         1,500            -        819
-      20,357          500         10.178        4.580         5.598        55            -
5.  Paddy bunds                                               100 m3lha   300 ha             -       30,000          -             -                          - _                    30,000
Subtotal - Earthworks                                                                     37,442       16,849        20,593        55         4û,430
B,  Structures                                                                               Quantity    Unit           Rate                       Cost
CFAF_        Total        Local        Foreign
2CFAF              ----OFAF million------
6.  Spillway - 30 cm rubble masonry protection                                            2,500        m2         12,500        31.250        23.438        7.812         25
7. Headworks
Left bank )reinforced concrete with timber gates                                      15        m3        180,000          2.700        1.485         1.215        45
Right bank)                                                                            10       m3        180,000          1.800        0,990         0.810        45
8.  Distribution turnouts reinforced concrete with timber gates (12 No)                       3        m3        180,000          0.540        0.297        0.243         45
9.  Culvert field drains 3,000/1.5 m x 10 cm pipes                                        4,500        m              300         1.350        0.202         1.148        85
10.  Culvert aprons 3,000/0.75 m2 x 10 cm rubble masonry                                   2,250        m2          5,000         11.250        8.438         2.812        25
Subtotal - Structures                                                                     48.890        34.850       14.040         29
Total - Construction costs                                                                86.332        51.699       34.633         40         40,430



CA1FMIfON                                                 ANNEY: 3
RURAL DEVELOPMEI?T FUND PROJECT                                       Table 3
BOTTONLAN  DEVELPMEFT
Farm F'mily Budget
Without proLect                           With project
PYI-20                      F73           PY4            T 3--2-0
1.  Basic Data
Unit
Irrigated area            ha                                       1.0                         1.0           1.0             1.0
Paddy yields  2/          t/ha                                      1.0                        1.5           2.0             2.5
Production                t                                         1.0                        1.5           2.0             2.5
Farmgate price            CFAF/kg                                 40                          40            40
-CEAi'---------------------CFAP  thousand---------------------------
2. Gross Value of Production                                             40.0                       60.0          80.0           100.0
:3. Production Costs
Seeds (traditional, 100 kg at CFAF 40/kg)                          4.0                         -             -               -
Improved seeda (100 kg at CFAF 45/kg)                              -                          4.5            4.5             4.5
Fertilizer (100 kg urea and 100 kg 40.20.20,
at CFAF 50/kg)                                      -                           -             -              10.0
Hired labor (at CFAF 125/man-day)
Plowing (32 man-days)                                          4.0                        4.0           4.0              4,0
Seeding (8 man-days)                                           1.0                        1.0            1.0             1.0
Weeding (28 man-days)                                          3.5                        3.5            3.5             3.5
Fertilizer (4 man-days)                                                                   -              -               0.5
Harvesting and threshing (32 to 64 man-days)                   4.0                        6.0            7.0             8.0
16.5                       19.0          20.0            31.5
4.  Net Value of Production                                              23.5                       41,0          60.0             68.5
5. Family Consumption 2/                                                  6.0                        6.0           7.0              8.0
6.  Cash Income after Family Consumption                                 17.5                       35.0          53.0             60.5
7.  Incremental Net Value of Production                                   -                         17.5          36.5             45.0
B.  Family Labor (Man-days) 4/                                           20                         28            28               28
9.  Net Value of Production per man-day of Family Labor (4:8)             1.2 (US$4.9)               1.5           2.1              2.4 (US$10.0)
10.  Cost Recovery 5/                                                      -                          9.8           9.8              9.8
11.  Net Value of Production after Cost Recovery (4-10)                                              31.2          50.2             58.7
12. Net Value of Production per man-day of Family Labor
after Cost Recovery (11:8)                                         _                           1.1           1.8             2.1 (US$8.6)
13. Net Value of Production per farm-family member                         4.7                        8.2          12.0             13.7
(5 members per family)                                        (US$19.0)                  (US$33.5)    (US$49.0)        (US$56.0)
14.  As in 13, after cost recovery                                         4.7                        6.2          10.0             11.7
(US$19.0)                  (US$25.5)    (US$41.0)        (US$48.0)
l/ During FY1 and PY2 water control works would be designed and constructed, respectively.  Levels of production aed costs as
vithout project.
2/ Yields at full development have been reduced to reflect likely effects of inadequate rainfall every tifth year.
3/ Increased by 157% per year, after PY3.
4/ From PY3 family labor has been increased for irrigation vork and bund maintenance.
5/ Details Annex 10, Table 1.



CAMEROON                    ANNEX 3
RURAL DEVELOPMEN'r FUND PROJECT         Table 4
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Economic Price of Paddy i/ 1978 to 1980-85
(In 1977 terms)
1978      1979       1980-85
--------US$/t-
Milled rice, Thai 25-25% broken,
f.o.b. Bangkok 2/                                227        247        274
Ocean freight andL Insurance                         80         80        80
Value CIF Douala                                    307        327       354
------------CFAF/kg----------
Value CIF Douala                                     75.2       80.1       86.7
Port charges and handling                             3.5        3.5        3.5
Value warehouse Douala                               78.7       83.6       90.2
Importers margin                                      7.2        7.2       7.2
Value wholesale Douala                               85.9       90.8       97.4
Road transport Douala-Yagoua 3/                      34.7       34.7       34.7
Rice at Mill                                        120.6      125.5      132.1
Value of paddy equivalent (65% milling yield)    78.4           81.5       85.8
Less milling costs                                    4.0        4.0        4.0
Less collection and transport Yagoua-Moulvoudlay~-/ 2.0          2.0        2.0
Economic farmgate price of paddy                     72.4       75.5      79.8
1/ Based on import substitution value.
2/  Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts, November 23, 1976.
3/ 1,734 km at CFAF 20/t/km, net of taxes.
4/  50 km at CFAF 20/t/km, net of taxes, plus CFAF 1.0/kg for collection.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Economie Costs and Benefits
Without 1'
Prolect                                                                           With Proiect
PY1-20      Pyl    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9    PY10   PYl1   PY12   PY13   PY14   PY15   PY16   PY17   PYl8   PY19   PY20
1. ASSUMPTIONS
Cultivated area (ha)                       100        100    100    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275    275
Yields (t/ha)                                1.0        1.0    1.0    1.5    2.0    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
Paddy farmgate price
(CFAF/kg)                            72/80        72      76      80     80      80      80     80      80      80      80     80      80      80      80      80      80      80     80      80      80
-------------------------------------------------------------------CFAF Million-----------------------------------------------------------------------
2.  COSTS -
Investment       3/
Contractors                              -         -    108.9    -         -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -
Consultant                               -          4.2    8.3    -        -      -       -
Vehicles                                 -          1.5    -       0.1    -        1.5    -       0.1     -       1.5    -       0.1     -       1.5     -      0.1     -       1.5     -       0.1     -
Small tools                              _          -      1.9    -        -      1.9    -        -       1.9    -       _       1.9     -       -       1.9    -       _       1.9     -       -       1.9
Subtotal                            -          5.7  119.1    0.1    -         3.4    -       0.1    1.9    1.5    -          2.0    -       1.5    1.9    0.1    -          3.4    -       0.1    1.9
Operat ing
IRAF seed tests                                     1.1    1.1    1.0                         -       -           -      -       -           -           -       -       -          -           -       -
Maintenance of silo                      -          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Maintenance of Water Works               -          -      -       2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9
Extension service 4/                     -          1.5    2.3    1.5    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Production coasts  -                     1.7        1.7    1.7    5.2    5.5    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7
Total Costs                         1.7       10.1  124.3   10.8    9.6   16.2   12.8   12.9   14.7   14.3   12.8   14.8   12.8   14.3   14.7   12.9   12.8   16.2   12.8   12.9   14.7
3. BENEFITS
Value of Production                          7.2        7.2    7.6   33.0   44.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0   55.0
Less net benefit vithout
project                                    -          5.5    5.9    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
Total Benefits                      7.2        1.7    1.7   26.7   37.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7   48.7
4. NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
(LSSES)                                   5.5       (8.4)(122.6)  15.9   28.1   32.5   35.9   35.8   34.0   34.4   35.9   33.9   35.9   34.4   34.0   35.8   35.9   32.5   35.9   35.8   34.0
5.  ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:   22%
1/  Level of production and coste are assumed constant without the project; prices changes have been accounted for.
2/  Net of taxes, but including physical contingencies.
3/  Includes unskilled labor, 40,430 man-days at CFAF 125  per man-day,
4/  Details Table 3.  Incremental farm  family labor costed at CFAF 125 per man-day.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CAIEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND, PROJECT
Market Gardenirng
A. Background
1.        Over the period 1966/68 - 1970/72, the annual average rate of
growth of non-traditional foodstuffs in Cameroon has been estimated to be
8.4% or six times greater than that for traditional foodcrops. 1/ Market
gardening production around towns in response. to growing urban demand
accounts for much of this growth. The crops involved include carrots,
tomatoes, lettuce, garlic, parsley, peppers and sweet potatoes, but rudi-
mentary statistics are only available in the case of the most important
single crop, namelv onions, for which the situation is summarized below.
2.        The total production of onions in the Cameroon is estimated at
about 15,000 tons per annum, of which 75% is in the northern province and
the balance in Menoua Department of Western Province. An indication of the
extent to which production is concentrated in a few areas is given by the
fact that the village of Meskine near Maroua :in Diamare Department accounts
for nearly 50% of the national production.
3.        The deve]Lopment of onion production has been spontaneous and without
the backing of any specific research or extension. Growers have themselves
selected varieties according to their adaptab:ility to local conditions, their
yield and storage qualities. In the north, production methods may be sum-
marized as follows:;
(a)  at the end of the rainy season (October) nurseries
are planted and wells dug to provide irrigation;
(b) seedlings are transplanEed into prepared bunds
(casiers) of about 10 m ,
(c) these are then irrigated by flooding once in every
4-5 days;
1/   IBRD:  AgricuiLtural Sector Survey, Report No. 357-CM, Dec. 9, 1974,
Statistical Appendix, Table 4.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d) the growing cycle varies between 120 and 150 days;
(e) stalks are broken 3-4 weeks before harvesting.
In general, the standard of cultivation is high, and many growers are now
applying on an ad hoc basis the compound fertîlizer (N22 P14 K18) distri-
buted at subsidized rates by SODECOTON and originally intended for use only on
cotton fields.
Markets and Prices
4.        Although there is a considerable unrecorded traffic in the north,
particularly from Kousserto Chad, Cameroon is considered to be a net importer
of onions. Customs statistics relate only the imports through the port of
Douala (mostly from Holland and Senegal) which serve to meet the off-season
needs of Douala and Yaounde; about 400 t were imported in 1975.
5.        The bulk of the northern production comes on to the market at the
same time (March), causing farmgate prices to fall to their lowest level
(about CFAF 1,500 per 80 kg bag-US$0.08/kg). Thereafter prices recover to
reach a peak of CFAF 6,000 or more per bag (US$0.30/kg) at the period before
the first arrivals of the new crop (end November/beginning December). Thi-s
wide price spread reflects the high losses involved under present inadequate
storage conditions and the fact that until recently the market was geared to
meet only consumers' demand in the urban centers of the north.
6.        However, market links between the north and the main consuming
areas in the south are growing. Previously, these had been limited to
merchants from the south, who were forced to purchase through recognized
commission agents but some of the larger producers in the Maroua area, who
also have trading interests, now hire lorries to transport onions for sale
on the Douala and Yaounde markets and to bring back a return load of merchan-
dise.
Land-Tenure Developments
7.        Because the cultivation pattern is permanent rather than itinerant
and because of urban influence, land tenure systems in market garden growing
areas are slowly changing. Basically, the customary land tenure system pre-
vails, i.e. a family is confirmed in its right of use of a given area by the
Paramount Chief (Lamido) in council. This authority also allocates new
usufructory rights over any unused land which is deemed to belong to the
community. But forms of "acquired rights" or "lettings" and even land saLles
are emerging, although all such transactions have at least to be notifiecL to
the Lamido.
8.        In the market garden areas, the average size of holding appears
to be about 1.5 ha of which about 1.3 ha is devoted to rainfed food crops
(sorghum and millet) and 0.2 ha to cash crops (rainfed cotton, groundnuts



ANNEX 4
Page 3
and sweet nl-.iatoes) and irrigated onions and other vegetables.  Larger hold-
ings are frequently associated with trading interests.
9.        The average holding size of about 1.5 ha reflects the labor capac-
ity of the normal family. Irrigated cropping is more labor intensive, and
if th2 family cnnot itself provide this additional labor then plots of
350 m  to 400 m  (corresponding to the command area of the traditional
"chadouf" irrieation system - para 11) are "let" to others on an annual
basis, at a rental frequently fixed at one-tenth of the value of the annual
output.  But if this occupation remains undisturbed over a period of time,
there is the possibility of the tenant obtaining an "acquired right" of con-
tinued cultivation. Conversely, if family labor becomes available, a recent
tenancy may be terminated.
10.       By ordinance No. 74-1 of July 6, 1974, Government announced its
intention of issuing and registering land titles throughout the country.
Under Decree No. 76/166 of April 27, 1976 to give effect to this ordinance,
local committees have been set up to examine and process all applications
for land title. In Maroua alone, over 1,000 applications had been received
by the Department concerned (Service des Domaines) and their examination was
due to start in mid-November 1976. In view of the implications for both tra-
ditional and admin:Lstrative authorities, as well as the complex procedures
necessarily involved in identifying and defining individual plots and adju-
dicating on competing claims, it is difficult: at this stage to assess the
likely extent and speed of implementation of the new land tenure laws.
Irrigation Systems
11.       The peak of the rainy season (July/September) accounts for nearly
75% of the average annual rainfall (800 mm) and from October there is a dry
period of six months when average daily temperatures mount to a peak of
32 C in April.  For market garden crop production during the dry season,
some form of irrigation is essential. The traditional irrigation system
is limited to the alluvial flood lands bordering the rivers (mayos). Here,
at the end of the rainy season, wells are dug (to an average depth of 5 m)
and over these a "chadouf" - a wooden lever-type construction - is erected
which permits water to be raised by hand, as long as the water table does
not fall below a certain level (roughly 2.5 mn).
12.       Recently, motor pumps have been introduced, notably in the Maroua
and Kousseri areas. FONADER financed some 20 motor pumps in 1975/76 (aver-
age loan size: CFAF 600,000 or US$2,400) and a few large growers have
financed motor pumps out of their own resources. Because the minimum com-
mand area for effective motor pump use is about one hectare, it is chiefly
larger landowners (some with associated trading interests) who have installed
motor pumps, and there is evidence to show that this has led to dispossession
of tenants, reduction in employment and pressure on the slowly expanding mar-
ket facilities (para 6).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
13.       An intermediate stage would involve the installation of hand- or
pedal-operated pumps, on either open wells or boreholes. The feasibility
of such equipment has been demonstrated under the UNDP groundwater project
(CMR/74-013) and in neighboring territory in south-west Chad.
14.       A comparison of the main features of these three systems with ref-
erence to the production of irrigated onions is given below:
Comparison of Irrigation Systems
Hand- or pedal-
operated pump
Chadoufs    Mechanical Pump    Motor Pump
Approximate investment                                165.000 /2
Cost (CFAF)                           10.000 /1       450.000 /3       1.000.000 /4
Drqwing Capacity
(m /hour)                             0.4               1.5                ;.7
Ar ea of Irrigated Onions
(m ) /5                                 400             2,000            10,000
Labor requirement for
water lifting (Man-hours)               740               987
Double-cropping possible                 No               Yes              îes
Farmer's Remuneration
(CFAF per hour of field labor)           66               164               253
/1   Annual cost as wells have to be re-dug and chadoufs re-built each year.
/2   Assuming pump installed on open well.
/3  Assuming pump installed on borehole.
/4   Assuming 5 hp motor on a 10 m cement-lined well.
/5   On the basis of a water requirement for onions of 7,400 m  per ha per
crop.
15.       For chadouf irrigation, labor constraints in water lifting are a
more important factor in limiting the irrigated area than water availability.
Both mechanical and motor pump systems, in addition to easing this constraint,
have the advantage of providing water over a longer period, thus permitting
double-cropping.



A1'4NEX 4
Page 5
B. The Subpro lect
16.       The subproject proposals detailed below have been framed to take
into account the present and likely future situatiorn as descri1bed in the
Background section.  In particular, the, favor the adoption cf intermed.iate
technology in the form of hand- or pedal-operated pumps as it is felt that any
undue or precipitate development of ilaotor puups could lead not onl'y to social
hardships (para 12), but aiso to risks of flooding a narrow mnarket, with
the consequent price collapse causi ng further-l  dLscouragemernt ta the sr;all
producer.
17.       The subproject would be rmade up of two main components:   (a) a
credit scheme covering the installation cf hand- or pedal-operated plumps on
boreholes and (b) the provision of supporting resear^h and extension services.
Credit Scheme
18.       The subproject would adm.inster a credit program. comprising:
(i)  40 loans towards the cost of ilstal:Liri  a hand- or
pedal-ope--rated puir-m and boreholes estimated to average
CFAF 427,500 (-uS$i,77ûû) eacn; 1/
(ii)  20 loans average CFAF 165,000 (US$671') each to cover
cost of a hand-or pedal-operated puDlp and 10%
installation costs.
1/   Total costs estimated as follows:
CFAF '000
Pump                                                                    150
Installation (10% of pump cost)                                          15
Borehole (acco.ding ta UNDDP geological survey, average
depth is likely to be 16 mi; cost per l-near meter
taken to be CFAF 16, 000U                                             256
Pump cemenit surrounrd                                                   29
Total cosl:s                                                       450
Less borrower's contribution at 5% (para 20(i))                  22.5
Average size of loan                                         427.5



ANNEX 4
Page 6
19.       Guidelines for credit documentation procedures are outlined at
Appendix 1. The following conditions would apply to all loans under the
credit program:
(a)  prospective borrowers either indiv[dually or jointly
must have 0.2 ha of land suitablS for market garden
crops, of which at least 1,800 m could be irrigated
by the proposed pump;
(b) their assured right of the use of this land during
the period of the loan to be confirmed by the Lamido
(paramount chief), Chef de Quartier (village chief)
and Council representative (where traditional style
land holding is involved) or by possession of a title
deed granted under the new legislation (para 10);
(c) where tenants are involved, an assurance would be
required to be given by the landholder before the
Lamido in Council that the rent would not be in-
creased during the loan period;
(d) the preliminary selection of candidates to be made
by the Chef de Quartier and approved by the Lamido;
(e) each case to be individually assessed by the exten-
sion agent, working under the guidance and control
cf the project Credit Specialist; assessment to be
based on estimates of the borrower's ability to repay
the loan from the incremental production attributable
to the investment;
(f)  boreholes to be installed only in areas where chadoufs
cannot operate effectively;
(g) boreholes to be drilled by the drilling team that is
to be responsible for drilling boreholes under the
village water supply subproject. Full drilling
costs (including depreciation) according to an
agreed schedule would be reimbursed out of the
loan concerned;
(h) boreholes to be tested and proved and open wells to
be inspected and approved and pumps to be installed by the
team responsible for similar operations under the village
water supply subproject; their costs according to an agreed
scale would be reimbursed out of the subproject loans;



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(i)  RES to be responsible for pump maintenance including
the provision of spare parts, and borrowers to be
required to pay for spares supplied and servicing
costs according to an agreed scale calculated on a
commercial basis;
(j)  in the overall borehole drilling and pump installa-
tion programs for each project year, priority to
be given to operations under the credit subproject
so that new pumps are operational not later than
October 31 to enable the borrowers to derive bene-
fits from them in the year in which the loan has
been approved; 1/ and
(k) where a group of farmers applied for a loan they
would have to show that they had agreed on a work-
able scheme to share the water from the one pump,
and would be required to enter into a joint and
several undertaking for the repayment: of the loan.
20.       Loans would be granted on the followïng terms:
(a)  in the case of a borehole and pump, the beneficiary
would be required to contribute CFAF 22,500 (US$90)
or approximately 5% of total investmenlt costs;
(b) in the case of a pump to be operated on an open
well, the beneficiary would be requiresd either to
dig it himself, or to pay for the digging of the
well. At an estimated annual average cost of
CFAF 6,000 (US$25) this would represent a con-
tribution of about 15% of total investment cost
over five years; and
(c) loans for the balance of the investment costs
would be for four years and would bear interest
of at least: 10% per annum.
The farm budget and financial cash flow projections (Tables 1 and 2) show
that such repayment terms should not impose any undue burden on the borrow-
ers, and should permit them to finance the pump replacement in the sixth
year out of their incremental income.
1/   Benefits in first year of operation have been calculated at 80% of the
level expected at full development (Table 1).



ANNEX 4
Page 8
21.       The same 10% rate of interest is applied in the Bank-financed
Livestock Project (Loan 983-CM) for onlending to farmers, and would also
be applied to the stall fattening subproject. This rate would go towards
recovering the high operating costs involved in establishing and managing
the proposed credit schemes, and more closely reflect the real cost of
financing. The present rate of 5.75% applied by FONADER to loans for puinp
purchases implies a very substantial subsidy, which is not justified in view
of the financial returns accruing to subproject farm families (para 30).
22.       During the project period, loans for pumps, or pumps and boreholes
would be restricted to the rural commune of Maroua, in order to facilitate
the introduction and supervision of new techniques and procedures. From the
experience so gained it should be possible to consider a wider scheme in a
second-stage RDF.
23.       Project management would be consulted before any institutional
credit would be extended for the purchase and installation of motor pumps
within the subproject area. This is necessary in view of the limited market
absorptive capacity for additional production of onions. With funds pro'vided
by FONADER, the Mission de Developpement des Cultures Vivrieres, Maraicheres
et Fruitieres (MIDEVIV) is conducting a study into the market potential for
onions that is expected to be completed by the end of May 1977, and the find-
ings of this study should assist in evaluating market absorptive capacity.
Supporting Research and Extension Services
24.       The project would finance a two-year applied research program on
onions to be carried out by the Maroua station of the Institut de Recherches
Agricoles et Forestieres (IRAF), at an estimated cost of CFAF 2 million
(US$8,000). Proposed terms of reference for this research are at Appendix 2.
25.       The extension agent of the Ministry of Agriculture seconded to thîs
subproject, in addition to his duties under the credit scheme outlined in
para 19(e), would be the channel through which field trials would be con-
ducted and research results made known to farmers during the project.
26.       The pump unit working under the village water supply subproject
(Annex 7) would assume responsibility for pump maintenance and repair, and
would charge beneficiaries for both services and materials supplied.
27.       Within the subproject costs is a provision for a fund of CFAF 1 mil--
lion ($4,000) to operate field storage trials as a first-stage implementation
of IRAF's storage research findings (Appendix 2). Government has decided that
utilization of a provision of CFAF 2.0 million ($8,000) for the building of
two onion storage hangars included in the current budget of the Maroua Societe
Cooperative pour l'Education et le Developpement (SOCOOPED), would be dehferrei
until the results of IRAF storage research were available.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Subproject Organization
28.       The subproject would be implemented by a Credit Unit  (CU) to be
created within FSAR, staffed with a credit manager recruited by FONADER, an
internationally recruited credit specialist for PY 1 and PY 2, and one credtt/
extension agent assigned by the Ministry of Agriculture. The credit manager
and the credit specialist would also implement the stall fattening subproject
(Annex 5). Credit systems and procedures, designed by the credit specialist
and the credit manager, would be expected to provide models for use in other
agricultural credit operations to be undertaken by FONADER.
Subproject Costs
29.       These, at end-1976 prices, are summarized below:
Summary of Project Costs
PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   Total
-.-°-CFAF Million-----------
Equipment and Vehicles
Pumps purchased (no)                            -      (25)   (15)   (20)   (60)
Pumps cost (CFAF 150,000 ea.)                    -      3.8    2.2    3.0    9.0
Mobylette (1)                                    0.1     -       -      0.1    0.2
Boreholes cost (CFAF 300,000 ea.)                -      1.5    4.5    6.0   12.0
Open Wells                                       -      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3
Pump Installation on Open Wells                 -       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3
Subtotal                                   0.1    5.5    6.9    9.3   21.8
Operating Costs
Pump Maintenance                                  -     0.1    0.2    0.3    0.6
Vehicles operating and miscellaneous             0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
IRAF Research                                    1.0    1.0      -       -     2.0
Storage trials                                    -      -      1.0    1.0    2.0
Subtotal                                   1.1    1.2    1.3    1.4    5.0
Local Personnel
Credit/Extension Agent                           1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    4.8
Total Base Costs                           2.4    7.9    9.4   11.9   31.6



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Justification
30.       The subproject is justified on the following grounds:
(a) it would involve the introduction of improved irrigation
systems that would directly benefit about 100 producers
(or 500 persons in all) who have already shown that
they are hard working and enterprising;
(b) through the provision of more water over a longer
period and at less labor cost, it would allow for
double cropping;
(c)  it would help to ensure an orderly increase in pro-
duction and avoid undue pressures on marketing and
employment. At full development, the subproject
would produce 600 additional tons of onions or
about 5% of present national total production;
(d) it would finance applied research into the related
problems of reducing the incidence of peak produc-
tion and improving storage methods;
(e) particularly in the credit field, the subproject
would have a considerable impact in institution
building since the new credit assessment and
supervision procedures to be introduced under
the scheme could well serve as best-practice
models for generalized use by FONADER, whose
credit manager would acquire direct regional
management experience;
(f)  finally, it would introduce in Cameroon a new
form of irrigated water supply (borehole and
hand- or pedal-operated pump), proven elsewhere
that may well have a much wider application in the
future.
Benefits
31.       The main benefit to an individual farmer taking a loan to finance
the installation of a pump and borehole would be an increase in the net value
of farm family production from CFAF 48,000 to CFAF 205,000 (US$195 to 840),
representing an increase in the net value of production per man-day from
CFAF 317 to CFAF 1,370 (US$1.30 to 5.60) (Table 1). From the farmer's cash
flow projections (Table 2), it is apparent that the investment would genierate
sufficient funds to enable the farmer to finance the purchase of a replacement
pump in year 6 from his own resources.  The financial rate of return for the
enterprise is estimated at 26%.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
32.       Indirect benefits would include increased employment opportunities
since, at full development, the additional field work required under the sub-
project would amount to some 30,000 man-days or the equivalent of full employ-
ment for an addiltional 100 persons.
33.       The subproject yields an economiic rate of return of 20% (Table 3),
on the following main assumptions:
(a) farm hiLred labor is costed at CFAIY 250 per man-day (US$1.0),
to reflect the higher opportunity cost of employment
near an urban centre;
(b) onions, the representative crop, are valued at the
(seasornally averaged) local farmgate price, about
CFAF 3,'/kg (US$0.15);
(c) useful life of boreholes taken to be 20 years with
no residual value; pumps are replaced in the 6th
year; and
(d) 1/3 of credit management costs allocated to this sub-
project, and 2/3 to the stall fattening subproject.
34.       The rate of return is expected to be sensitive to changes in sub-
project costs and benefits. Details are as follows:
Costs        Benefits          Economic Rate of Return
Base:                   100            100                       20
Sensitivity:            105            100                       14
110           100                        9
95           100                       26
100           110                       31
100            95                       13
100           SLIPI                     10



CAMEROON                                   ANNEX 4
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT                        Table 1
MARKET GARDENING SUBPROJECT
Farm Family Budget
Cultivated Area (ha)                 Without anLd With
Without Project  With Project          Yields         Price!
PYl-20           PYl-20            (kg/ha)        CFAF4cg
1. Basic Data
Sorghum/Millet                                     1.3              1.3                 800          40
Rainfed Groundnuts                                 0.2              -                    750          50
Pump irrigated onions and vegetables               -                0.2              30,000           37.50
Total                                          1.5              1.5
Without Project                    With Project
PYl-20                      PY2            PY3-20
---~---------------------  AF -----------------
2. Gross Value of Production
Sorghum/Millet                                           41,600                      41,600          41,600
Rainfed Groundnuts                                        7,500                          -
Pump Irrigated Onions and Vegetables
Onions First Crop (37.5 x 30,000 x 0.2)                   -                       160,000         200,000
Onions and Vegetables Second Crop Estimate                -                       120,000         150,()00
49,100                    321,600          391,6500
3. Production Costs
Sorghum/Millet - Seed                                     1,300                       1,300           1,300
Rainfed Groundnuts - Seed                                   200                         -
Pump Irrigated Onions and Vegetables (Double Cropping)
Seed                                                                               30,000          30,000
Fertilizer (22.14.18 at 500 kg/ha, CFAF 140/kg)           -                        28,000          28,1)00
Hired Labor
Land preparation, weeding and harvesting
(120 man-day at CFAF 250)                             -                        60,000          60,000
Water lifting (1,000 hours at 1.5 m3/hr,
at CFAF 31.25/hr.)                    -                        62,500          62,500
Pump Maintenance (3% of CFAF 150,000)                       -                         4,500           4,500
Total                                                 1,500                     186,300         186,300
4.  Net Value of Production                                       47,600                    135,300          205,300
5.  Family Consumption                                            20,000                     24,000           28,800
6.  Cash Income after Family Consumption                          27,600                    111,300         176,500
7.  Incremental Net Value of Production                              -                        87,700         157,700
8.  Family labor (man-days)                                          150                         150             150
9.  Net Value of Production per man-day of Family Labor              317                         902           1,370
(US$1.30)                  (US$3.70)       (US$5.60)
10. Net Value of Production per farm-family member
(5 active members per farm-family)                          9,520                      27,060          41,060
(US$38.90)                 (US$110.45)    (US$167.60)



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUMD PROJECT
MARKET GARDENING SUBPROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
(In Mid-1977 prices)
Without                                                                1
Project                                                  With Project
PYI - 7              PY2               PY3               PY4               PY5               PY6               PY7
------------------------------------------------------CFAF-----________________
Cash Inflow
1 Annual Sales (net of family consumption)               29,100                297,600          362,800           362,800           362,800           362,800           362,800
2 Financing:
- Fai-ers Contribution                               -                  22,500               -                 -                 -                 -                 -
- Loan                                               -                 427,500               -                  -                -                 -                 -
Previous year cash balance                               -                      -             48,66             86,727           142,381           213,080           297,028
Total Expected Cash Inflow                   29,100               747,600           411,460           449,527           505,181           575,880           659,S28
Cash Outflow
Investments                                              -                  450,000               -                -                 -                  -            165,000
Operating Costs (exclusive of family labor)            1,500                186,300           186,300          186,300            186,300           186,300           186,300
Debt Service:
- Repayment                                          -                      -            106,875           106,875           106,875           106,875               -
-  Interest                                          -                  42.750            42,750            32,062            21,375            _0688-
Subtotal current prices                         -                   42,750          149,625           138,937           128,250           117,563               -
Domestic Price Index                                     -                  122               135               149               164               181                   -
Subtotal constant '77 prices                    -                   35,040          110,833            93,246            78,201            64,952                -
Taxes
Farmera' Cash withdrawai                              27,600                 27,600            27.600            27.600            27,600            27,600            27,600
Total Expected Cash Outflow                  29,100                698,940          324,733           307,146           292,101           278,852           378,900
Expected Cash Balance at End of Year                        -                   48,660            86,727           142,381           213.080           297,028           280,928
Financial Rate of Return:  26.3%
H
l/ First loans would be granted in FY2.



C0AMEROON
RJiAL DFVEIOIPMLNT FOND PROJEC7
MARKEE  ASRDENINC SUBPROJEI71
Ecocnmic Conte sud Be-efits
oi       10Y2      PY3       PY4      PY5       IY6       PY7       PY8      PY9              With Polie    112         Pfl3       114        PY015     P1>16      PY17       F118      PYFI9         120
1.  IP LEMOENTATION
lumps or Open Wcll (cusmuistivu)              -        20        20       20        20        20        20        20       20        20         20         20         20         20        20         20         20          20         20         20
Pu-pe ou boreholet (cummulatîvs)              -         5        20       40        40        40        40       40        40        40         40         40         40        40         40         40         40         40          40        40
---------------------------------------- - -  ------------------------------------------CAF  Million------------  _                 -       -     --             _-_-                      _       -_
2. IONCREIIENTAL COSTS0
P-ups or open Welia                           -         3.1       -         -                            3,1       -         -        -                     3.1        -          -                                3.1        -          -          0 6
Soreholca vith pompa                          _         2.3       6.8       9.0                          2.3       6.8      9.0                  -          2.3        6.8        9.0        -                     2.3        6 8        9.0        2 6
ope- Welle diging        2/                    -        0.4       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0 1        0.1        0.1
Credit Operatilg Colts -        3/            2.3       2.3       2.3       2.3      1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2       -        -
Credit Manager (1/3 of total) -               1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0       -        -
produrtion Golst  4/                          -         4.7       7.5      11.2     11.2      11.2      11.2      11.2     11.2      11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2       11.2
3.3     13.8      17.7      23,6      13.5     13.5      IS.9      20.9      20.3     01.3       11,3       16.7       18.1       20.1       11.3       11.3       16.7       18.1       20.3       20.5
3.  LNCREMOENTAL BNEFPITS
Valus of Production                            -        7.0      14.0      21.0     21.0      21.0      21.0      21.0      21.0     21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0       21 0       21.0
Len- OcNt bansfit ilthoul,
projoot PYI-20  /                    -        0.1       0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0,3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3      . 0.3        0.3        0 3        0.3
-        6.9      13.8      20.7     20.7      20.7      20.7      20.7      20.7     20.7       20.7       20.7       20.7       20.7       20.7       20.7       20.7       20.7       20 7       20 7
4.  MET LNCREMENTAL BENEFIT8 (LOSES)              (3.3)    (6,9)    (3.9)    (2.9)        7.2       7.2      1.8       0.4       0.4       9.4        9,4        4,0        2.6       0.4         9.4        9.4        4.0        2.6        0.4        0 2
5.  ECONOMIC RAIE O  NETURN:  20%
1/  Details Cot Suceary.
2/  Iocludes aalery uf credit agent, IRAF r...srch and atorage trials.
3/   2/3 *lloatsd ta  the ltgla-fbttocisg   aabp       2lJl uto
4/  Detaile Table 1. Onlone priced at ferigate CFAO 3,000 for a 80 kg b.g.  Actual seasoual r-oge is CFAF 6,500 t1  1,500 for firait sd second crops, rospcctively.
Fier d os d vl teo  lifting labor poted  t         CFAF 250 p o  02n-dhy, P-p aeintAna70e i p inlot,dd. Thpro i o  rs  CI'al' fa 0ily  1.br.    o
5/Gross value of production p., plot of rainfed gt..nd-ut. on 0.2 ha, at CFAF' 7,500 per plot, mIn- production costs, CFAF 3,200  17et benefit CFAF 4,300 per plot.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNI) PROJECT
Market Gardening Su_bproject
Guidelines for Credit Subproject Documentation Procedures I/
1.        Individual loan files would be kept in duplicate for each partici-
pating farmer. One copy would be retained by the field credit supervisor
responsible for the client, and one copy would be held at FSAR headquarters
in Maroua for inspection by management, auditors, and IDA supervision
missions.
2.        Each file would contain at least (Li. chronological order):  (a) the
loan application form endorsed by village authorities, the field supervisor,
and the credit specialist/manager; (b) a lettesr of notification of loan
approval signed by the credit specialist/manager; (c) the loan agreement
in due legal form, with signature witnessed by the field supervisor and can-
tonal chief or Lamido (the agreement should contain all terms and conditions
of credit including repayment dates and amounts); (d) a receipt signed by the
farmer for the cost of cattle purchased, vaccinated and treated, or a state-
ment of installation by RES of a pump and borehole in working order, also
countersigned by the borrower; (e) receipts signed by farmers for minerals
and feed delivered; (f) periodic payment demand notes drawn up by the
credit unit and delivered to each borrower; (g) Bank or postal remittance
advice notes or copies of receipts given to the farmers by the field super-
visor; and (h) an individual loan status sheet". detailing dates and amounts
of disbursements ancd repayments, due and effective.
3.        Every semester, a progress report on the status of loan applica-
tions, approvals, disbursements and repayments will be prepared by the FSAR
Credit Unit on the basis of the individual file summary, and sent to FSAR
management in Yaounde for approval and transmission to Governnient and IDA.
1/   These guidelines are also applicable to the stall fattening subproject
at Annex 5.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Market Gardening Subproject
Applied Research into Onion Production and Storage - Terms of Referenze
Objective
1.        The main objectives of the research program would be to:
(a) improve existing onion production methods; and
(b) devise effective and economic methods of onion storage.
Execution
2.        The execution of the research program would be entrusted by FSAR
under contract to the Maroua Research Station of the Institute for Agricul-
tural and Forestry Research (IRAF). IRAF would nominate one of its senior
research staff to be specifically responsible for the research program.
Field of Investigation
3.        These would include:
(a)  examination and desk appraisal of similar research work
on onions already done elsewhere notably by the Insti-
tute for Research in Tropical Agronomy (IRAT) at
Maradi;
(b) installation of a limited seed selection program,
utilizing varieties already shown to be capable
of acclimatisation to conditions found in North
Cameroon. Seed selection criteria should include:
-    yields;
-    late and early varieties;
-    short cycle varieties;
-    varieties with good keeping qualities;



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 2
(c) fertilizer trials, based on previous IRAT experience;
(d)  agronomic techniques, including the relative merits of
planting in furrows and in raised "banks" as compared
with the present practice of planting in bunds;
(e) pest and disease problems; and
(f)  storage trials, covering both on-farmi storage methods
and the construction of special storage hangars on the
lines of the experiments conducted in 1968 at the
Technical School of Agriculture at Maroua; chemical
and other treatments involved; operational and manage-
ment proposals in the case of hangars.
Field Trials
4.        Any necessary field trials (e.g. for seed multiplication, fertilizer
usage) should be arranged by the AES extension agent seconded to the sub-
project and assisted by IRAF.
5.        On the basis of their research findings, IRAF would recommend
field storage trials for implementation in the subproject and for which
special provision has been made in subproject costs.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPHENT FUND PROJECT
Stall Fattening Subproject
A. Background
The Livestock Sector
1.        Cameroon has good potential for livestock development, but produc-
tion is threatened by tsetse-fly infestations and constrained by unproduc-
tive traditional nomadie and seminomadic grazing practices used by most cattle
owners. Hence meat production is not keeping pace with demand, and to maintain
per capita beef consumption at present low levels, without substantial imports,
would require a production increase of about 50% by 1985.
2.        The livestock population is estimated at about 3 million cattle, 3              V
million sheep and goats, 0.5 million pigs and 8 million poultry. Annual meat
production, including imports on the hoof from Chad, is estimated at 80,000
tons of which 65% is beef; this is equivalent to an average per capita conI-
sumption of about 11 kg. During 1974-76 cattle exports to Nigeria have sub-
stantially increased, and with an almost stagnant level of production and im-
ports, local consumption has declined. As the Nigerian market would continue
to be attractive for Cameroonian cattle, to maintain present levels of beef
consumption would require important investments to increase the productivity
of the national cattle herd.
3.        Cattle productivity in the traditional sector is low:  the annual
live weight gained per animal is only about 16 kg, as compared with about 40
kg per year obtained in some foreign and state owned ranches. The relatively
poor animal health situation, and the extensive milking of cows for human
consumption contribute to low production coefficients of the herd: 40% calv-
ing rate; 20% calf mortality rate; 6% adult mortality rate; 9% off-take rate;
and a herd growth of about 1.5% per year. Trypanosomiasis is widespread and
is the most important constraint on livestock production.
4.        Cameroon may be divided into three livestock zones covering the
southern, 9entral and northern areas of the country. The southern zone --
290,000 km and about 60% of the country's human population -- is the princi-
pal market for meat, but has only about 100,000 cattle, with poor potential
for their development because of extensive tsetse-fly infestations. The
central zone coeprises the Adamona Plateau and the northewestern highland --
about 85,000 km and 750,000 people, has more than half of the total herd. and
is the main source of local beef consumption. This zone has the best



MANEX 5
Page 2
prospects for a ,5apid increase in beef production. The northern zone --
about 100,000 km'- and 1.5 million people --- has about 1 million cattle.
Under present exltensive grazing systems of cattle owners and given the con-
straints of tsetse-fly infestations on land., production for this zone has
almost reached ils full potential. In addition the livestock herd is com-
peting with the expansion of crop farming; in many areas overgrazing is
lowering producti'vity.
5.        All livestock and meat marketing iLs in private hands, and is carried
out by a large number of traders and butchers. Trading normally takes place
at simple primary or secondary markets seldom attended by Government veteri-
nary inspectors and tax collectors. Transactions are by negotiation and
animals are bought on sight rather than by weight.  The principal movement
of animals is frcm central to southern Cameroon, and this involves about
100,000 head annually. About 85% of these animals are trekked on the hoof
on stock routes, with the remainder transported by road and rail. The exist-
ing network of markets and traders is reasonably efficient. Prices on the
domestic market are influenced by Cameroon's common borders with six coun-
tries, all of which, except for Chad, are normally beef deficit countries.
Annual market price increases for beef and cattle over the last two years
have been about 15%; nevertheless wholesale and retail prices in Cameroon
are significantly below those in Gabon and Congo (importers of Cameroon beef)
and in Nigeria (importer of Cameroon cattle). It is likely that, without a
significant increase in local supply, markel: prices in Cameroon will continue
to increase, moving closer to those in Nigeria, which is the largest market in
the region. Price controls have been established by Government, but they have
been ineffective.
6.        The Ministrv of Livestock was reorganized in June 1976, in an
effort to reorient its services from the prevailing livestock disease pre-
vention and control activities towards animail production. This calls for
an intensive staff- training program and for an adequate funding of the ser-
vices concerned; otherwise, their effectiveness would remain at present
low levels.
7.        The Government has started a long term development program aimed
at satisfying Cameroon's beef requirements through increased domestic produc-
tion. This program also includes improvement of slaughter facilities in the
interest of hygiene and minimization of waste. As a first step, production
by private graziers and farmers is being encciuraged, complemented by the
development of a s,mall number of state-owned ranches. The Bank is assisting
this program throu.gh the Livestock Project (ILoan 983, US$11.6 million), which
is progressing satisfactorily. This project is also financing a study of the
livestock marketing and price system, including the possibility of eliminating
meat price controls in order to ensure a satisfactory development of the sub-
sector.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
B. The Subproject:
The Proiect Area
8.        The Mandara mountains (600 to 1,000 m high) are located in the Mar-
gui Wandala district, northwest of the Northern Province, presenting shaLllow
gravelly slopes and terraced loamy soils over ironstone layers. The climate
is soudanosahelian with about 900 mm of rainfall from May to October, and a
dry season afterwards. Potential production per hectare from natural vegeta-
tion is estimated at about 1.0 to 1.5 t of dry matter, or 75% of the antual
food need of one animal unit.
9.        About 240,000 people (75% of the Margui-Wandala Department) live
on the Mandara highlands, within four cantons (Matakam Nord, Matakam Sud,
Koza and Goboa); about half belong to the Mafa or Matakam ethnic group. The
Matakam have linguistic and religious unity. The native authorities, Chiefs
of cantons, are under Mokolo's deputy prefect and have total authority over
chiefs of villages and villagers.
10.       Subsistence farming is characterized by cereals (millet and sor-
ghum) grown on small 1/2 ha plots. Poor soils and high population pressure
constrain agriculture diversification.   Income is derived from sales of
crop production in excess of farm consumption, and from temporary work iin
the plains during the dry season. Average annual cash income per farm i-amily
is about $40. Given the limited potential for agriculture, an estimated 2.5%
per year of the area's population leaves to other regions.
11.       About 9,000 farm families of 10 to 15 members each, keep on avrerage
about 0.5 cattle, 1 sheep, 3.5 goats and 15 chickens per family, which pro-
vides manure and some cash when sold. Some 2,000 families keep steers per-
manently in stables, fattening them with kitchen and crop residues, and col-
lected roughage for customary slaughtering; each family has only one steer.
There are four main cattle markets in the area: Bogo, Gazaoua, Maroua and
Moulvoudai, where about 130,000 cattle are annually marketed. Over the past
two years, following attractive prices offered for fattened steers, farners
have begun to sell their cattle, and replaced them with smaller animals for
customary slaughter, which left them with a cash profit. But the trend
towards commercial fattening is slow, because of the shortage of cash for
cattle purchases and the limited availability of foodstuffs. Thus, there
is scope for introducing in the area a fattening scheme with similar basic
characteristics as the one practiced for customary purposes.
12.       The Delegation of the Ministry of Livestock for the northern pro-
vince has a division sited at Maroua, with two services responsible for ani-
mal production and farmers' animation, and sanitary protection, respectively.
These services have been inefficient, suffering from a chronic shortage of
operating funds and from lack of qualified staff, with most of the work
carried out by veterinary and animal health assistants. Following its
reorganization in June 1976, the Ministry of Livestock has plans to ade-
quately staff and fund these services.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Detailed Features
13.       The constraints exposed in para Il above could be removed by helping
the farmer to start fattening for profit side by side with fattening for cus-
tomary purposes.  The cash constraint could be overcome by the provision of
credit; the lack of fodder, by providing concentrates (cotton cake) to reduce
the fattening period and allowing better use of available roughage. The
proposed subproject would represent the first step to introduce stall-fat-
tening as an economic activity in the Mandarai mountains. Over a four-year
period it would comprise:
(i) providing a line of credit to cover about 84% of the
total investment of about CFAF 38,700 (US$160) per farm
family for a total of about 2,000 families;
(ii)  supporting livestock extension services, with a credit
manager and four livestock credit agents;
(iii)  providing one internationally recruited credit specialist
during PY 1 and PY 2;
(iv)  providing vehicles and operating costs.
Loans would be granted on the following terms:
(i)  beneficiaries would each be required to contribute
CFAF 6,100 or about 16% of investment costs;
(ii)  credits for the balance of total costs would be for
two years, bearing at least 10% interest rate per annum
(this rate is applied in the Credit Scheme under the
Bank financed Livestock project, 983-CM); the farm bud-
get: and cash-flow projections at Tables 3 and 4 show
that such repayment terms are feasible for participating
farmers; and
(iii)  beneficiaries would be required to take a cattle mor-
tality insurance, the premium of which would be 2%
of a steer's market price.
14.       The subproject would be implemented by a Credit Unit  (CU) to be
created within FSAR, staffed with: (i) a Camneroonian Credit Manager; (ii) an
internationally recruited credit specialist for the first two project years;
and (iii) four credit agents. Accounts detaiLing the use of subproject funds
would be kept by the FSAR accountant at Maroua. Credit procedures would be
similar to those currently applied under operations, under the Bank-financed
Livestock Project (983-CM), and basically also those of the Market Gardenîng
Credit scheme, which are outlined at Annex 4, Appendix 1. The Credit Manager



ANNEX 5
Page 5
would be a Cameroonian, to be recruited by FONADER and appointed after conI-
sultation with IDA. The Credit Specialist would be internationally recruited
under terms of reference, and with qualifications and experience acceptab:Le to
IDA. The Credît agents would be in principle selected by the Credit Manager
from actual personnel in the livestock services, who would be seconded to the
subproject. They would be trained on-the-job by the Credit Manager and the
Credit Specialist; confirmation in their jobs would be subject to performance.
The team would establish an annual implementation program and budget, that
would be submitted through FSAR to IDA for approval. In addition they wouLd
implement a reporting and monitoring system along the lines described in Annex
13 of this report.
Subproject Costs
15.       Subproject base costs, at end-1976 prices, would amount to CFAF 89
million (US$360,000), and are detailed in Table 1.
Justification and Benefits
16.       The proposed subproject is expected to have a significant impact.
First, it would introduce for the first time in the Mandara mountains a
credit scheme for fattening steers, thus providing substantial profits to
farmers who are among the poorest in Cameroon. Second, it would develop and
strengthen the capabilities of field agents to deal with credit schemes and
with livestock production techniques, such as supplementary animal feeding.
In addition, the subproject would increase the availability of stall manure,
the use of which in crop farming is well known in the area.
17.       Farmers' benefits would be significantly improved (Table 2):  the
net value of production per farm family would rise from CFAF 30,000 to CFAF
98,000 (US$122 to 400); and net cash returns per man-day would rise from
CFAF 147 (US$0.60) to CFAF 265 (US$1.08). Cash-flow projections (Table 3)
show that credit terms are financially viable for participating farmers; the
financial rate of return for the enterprise would be very high: it is esti-
mated at 65%.
18.       The economic rate of return for the subproject has been estimated
at 35%, on the following assumptions (Table 4):
(i) a subproject life of 10 years;
(iî) farm labor costed at the opportunity cost
of CFAF 125 (US$0.50) per mari-day;
(iii) 2/3 of credit management costs allocated to stall-
fattening and 1/3 to market gardening (Annex 4); and
(iv) prices of steers, at the current quotation of CFAF 170
per kilo liveweight; input prices also at current values
in the subproject area.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
19.       The economie rate of return is sensitive to changes in costs and in
benefits; the latter depends greatly on local livestock prices, which do
not fully reflect scarce supply. Details are as follows:
Economic
Costs         Benefits        Rate of Return
Base                                  100              100                35
Sensitivity:                          110             100                 19
115             100                 il
100             110                 49
100              90                 17
100         SLIP  1 1/              14
1/   Benefits delayed by one year.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
STALL FATTENING SUBPROJECT
Cost SummarY
(In End-1976 prices)
PYl           PY2           PY3           PY4           TOTAL
-------                     CFAF Million--------------------
Investments
Cattle                                3.0           9.0           18.0          30.0            60.0
Vaccines                              0.05           0.15          0.30          0.50            1.0
Motorbicycles                         0.30           0.15          0.15          0.30            0.9
Subtotal                          3.35          9.30         18.45         30.80            61.9
Operating Costs
Minerals                              0.05           0.10          0.45          0.60             1.2
Feed Y                                0.30           1.20          2.70          4.80            9.0
Vehicle Operation and
Miscellaneous                       0.20          0.20          0.20           0.20            0.8
Subtotal 2/                       0.55          1.50          3.35          5.60            11.0
Local Personnel                            2.4           3.6           4.8           4.8             15.6
Base Cost                                  6.3          14.4          26.6          41.2             88.5
1/  Cotton cake at CFAF 3,000 per animal/year.                                                                           t
2/  Local salaries based on Category 8-F, plus housing, family and field allowances, CFAF 100,500 per
month.  Expatriate staff at Annex 8, Table 1.



CAMEROON                       ANNEX 5
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT'           Table 2
STALL FATTENING SUBPROJECT
Farm Family Budget
Unit                         Wi'thout      With Project
Price     Area    Yield    Project          Loan Cycle
CFAF       ha      kg/ha    PS'L-10    Yl         Y2
---CFAF-------------
1. Gross Value of Production
Millet/Sorghum                  25/kg  1.20    700       21.000    21,000    21,000
Groundnuts                     35/kg  0.20    500         3,500      3,500      3,500
Goats (1.5 head)            4,000/hd                      6,000      6,000      6,000
Poultry (4 head)              250/hd                      1,000      1,000      1,000
Steer (400kg lwt) ?/          170/kg                          _                68,000
31,500    31,500    99,500
2. Production Costs
Steer (2-3 year old,
180 kg lwt)            170/kg                        -      30,000        -
Seeds and small tools                                     2,000      2,000      2,000
Cotton Cake (150 kg) 2/        20/kg                        -        3,000      3,000
Vaccines and treatments 3/                                   -         500        -
Minerals (6 kg)                100/kg                        -         600        600
Cattle Insurance                                            -          500        500
2,000    36,600      6,100
3.  Loan                                                        ----      28,500      4,100
4.  Cash Outlay                                                  2,000     8,100      2,000
5.  Net Value of Production                                     29,500    23,400    97,500
6.  Family Consuniption                                         20,000    20,000    20,000
7.  Cash Income After Family Consumption                         9,500     3,400    77,500
8.  Debt Service
Repayment                                                              -       32,600
Interest                                                 _             -        6,400
Subtotal                                                          -      39,000
9.  Cash Income After Debt Service                               9,500     3,400    38,500
Less Taxes                                                   -         200        200
Plus Famiuly Consumption                                 20,000    20,000    20,000
10.  Total Net Benefit                                           29,500    23,200    58,300
11.  Incremental Farm Benefit                                       -       (6,300)   28,800
12.  Family Labor (man-days)                                        200        220        220
13.  Net Benefit per Man-day of Family Labor                        147        105        265
(US$0.60) (US$0.45) (US$1.08)
14.  Net Benefit per Farm Family Member 4/                        5,900      4,640    11,660
(US$:24.0) (US$18.9) (US$47.6)
1/ Two-year fattening period; weight gains of 300gr per day.
2/ 1kg of cotton cake per day during 150 days. Roughage not costed,
3/ Vaccination against Rinderpest, CBPP, Blackleg and treatment against internal
parasites.
4/ Average farm family size of 5 people.



CAMEROON                        ANNEX 5
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT              Table 3
STALL FATTENING SUBPROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
(In Mid-1977 Prices)
Without                      With
the Project                  Project
YI-Y4         Y1         Y2         Y3         Y4
Cash Inflow
Annual Sales (net of family
consumption)            11,500       11,500    79,500    11,500    75,500
Financing:
Farmers Contribution                  -          6,100        -          -          -
Loan                                  -         28,500      4,100                   -
Previous year cash balance                -            -          (200)   35,6)0        800
Total Expected Cash Inflow    11,500          46,100    83,400    47,100    76,300
Cash Outflow
Investments                               -         34,600      4,100    34,600       4,100
Operating Costs (exclusive of
family labor)        2,000         2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Debt Service:
Repayment                             -            -       32,600        -          -
Interest                              -            -        6,400        -          -
Subtotal                            -            -      39,000         -          -
Domestic Price Index                  -            -      122            -          -
Subtotal                            -            -      32,000         -          -
Cattle Tax                                -            200        200        200        200
Farmers Cash Withdrawal                 9,500        9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500
Total Expected Cash Outflow   11,500          46,300    47,800    46,300    15,800
Expected Cash Balance at End of Year        -            (200)   35,600         800    60,500
Financial Rate of Return: 65%
1/ The loan covers a two-year cycle after which the farmer is assumed to continue
operating with his own resources.



CAMER0ON
RURAL DEVELOPMEN? FUND PROJECT
STALL-FATTENING SUBPROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Without
Proiect                                                           With Project
PYl-o10      py          PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5         PY6         PY7         PY8         PY9         1YO
1. IMPLEMENTATION
New credits (No.)                                 -        100         300         600       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000        1,000       1,000       1,000
Outstanding credits (No.)                         -        100         400         900       1,600       2,000       2,000       2,000        2,000       2,000       2,000
---------__----------------------------------CFAF Million------------------------------______________
2.  INCREMENTAL COSTS
Steers (CFAF 30,000 per head)                    0         3.0         9.0        18.0        30.0        30.0        30.0        30.0         30.0        30.0        30.0
Minerals and vaccines                             °        0.1         0.3         0.7          1.1         1.1         1,1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.l
Cattle losses (2%)                               0         0.1         0.2         0.5         1.0         1.2         1.2          1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2
Feed (CFAF 3,000 per year)                        0        0.3         1.2         2.7         4.8         6.0         6.0          6.0         6.0         6.0         6.0
Farm labor (20 days; CFAF 125 per day)           0         0.3         1.0         2.3          4.0        5.0         5.0          5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0
Extension agents (4)                              0        2.4         3.6         4.8         4.8         4.8         4.8          4.8         4.8         4.8         4.8
Credit Manager (2/3)                             0         2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0        2.0          2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0
Vehicles                                          °        0.3         0.1         0.1          0.3        0.1         0.1          0.3         0.1         0.1         0.3
Production Costs                                 0         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2         0 2
8.7        17.6       31.3         48.2        50.4        50.4        50.6        50.4        50.4        50.6
3. INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Cattle Sales (CFAF 68,000 per head)               O         -          6.8        20.4         61.2        68.0        68.0        68.0        68.0        68.0        68.0
4.  NET UICREe-LTAL BENEFITS ( wSSES)                 O        (8.7)      (10.8)      (l0.9)       13.0        17.6        17.6        17.4        17.6         17.6,       17.4
5. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: 34.5%
ec  i
1/ Levelaof production and costa are assumed constant without the project.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Small Dams
A. Introduction
1.        The small dams subproject area is in2the M4andara mountains, which
have a high population density -- up to 200/km -- in the higher, more! isolated
valleys and plateaux (the population settled in these locations for historical
and ethnic reasons). Shortage of water in these places is acute during the
dry season. Water points are limited and often far from the family settlements
(sares).
2.        In general the only permanent wells are found in river valley allu-
viums; however, hydrogeological studies are being carried out by the INDP
Groundwater project, CMR/74/013, to assess availability of groundwater in
fault and alteration zones.  In addition, storage of the reasonably abundant
surface runoff in the wet season has been considered, and Rural Engineering
Services has constructed near Mokolo two small storage dams for water supply.
3.        Under Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) financing, the Societe
Grenobloise des Etudes d'Amenagements Hydrauliques (SOGREAH) carried out a
comprehensive survey of possible sites in late 1975. Out of 151 sites studied,
57 were identified as suitable; of th se 27 were selected for priority develop-
ment based on: (a) lowest cost per m of useful storage; and (b) population
living within 5 km radius of the site.
4.        In 1976, Governnent proposed a subproject covering the consl:ruction
of 10 dams for water supply in the Mandara mountains, chosen among the first
priority group of 27 (details Table 1).
B. The Project Area
5.        The Mandara mountains which rise to an altitude of 1,400 m iLn the
vicinity of Mokolo, are divided into two distinct regions: (a) a motntain-
ous part with marked relief to the east, north, and south; and (b) a zone
of high plateaux in the center, to the west along the Nigerian frontier,
and around Mokolo. The project area falls in the first region, within the
triangle Mokolo-Meri-Mora. The population is dependent entirely on rain-
fed cultivation and livestock (Annex 1).  Rural incomes per capita, oi-
less than $40, are well below levels for the Northern Province.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
6.        The mountaiLns are formed from old pre--cambrian rocks of the base-
ment complex. Geologically they are igneous granites or metamorphic ana-
toxites and gneisses. All the sites proposed are located on these forma-
tions, which provide excellent construction material and sound foundations.
7.        The climate of the area is tropical, characterized by distinct
wet and dry seasons. The wet season is from June to October while practi-
cally no rain falls from November to May. Annual average rainfall at Mokolo
is 960 mm. and at Mora 810 mm, with little interannual variability.  The
annual mean temperature at Mokolo is 260 C, with maxima of 41°C in April.
Evaporation (Colorado pan) at Mokolo is of the order of 2,750 mm, represent-
ing some 2,000 mn per year from a free water surface.
8.        The hydrology has been studied by the National Office for Scientific
Research (ORSTOM) between 1955 and 1971. The runoff coeficient for the catch-
ment areas concerned by the project is 0.31; 95% of runoff occurs in July,
August, and September. The specific discharge estimated for the 10-year flood
is as follows:
CatchmeMt area         Specific Dis5harge
Km                   m /sec/km
0.05                    35
1                       20
4                        15
10                       1()
25                         6
C. The Subproject
9.        The subproject objective would be to build 10 dams to supply water
to all families and livestock within a 5 km rad.ius of each site during the
nine months when surface water supplies and nearby wells dry up.
10.       The number of settlements (sares) affected is estimated at about
7,400 (Table 1). An average settlement comprises five people, seven sheep
or goats, and 0.25 head of cattle. The subproject would hence serve a popu-
lation of 37,000 people, 52,000 sheep and goats, and about 2,000 head of  3
cattle. Water requirements for a sare are estimated at 180 1/day, or 49 m
during the dry season.
11.      None of the sites selected has direct road access.  In some cases
short lengths of access road would be constructed from the main roads, and
in every case it would be necessary to carry material to the site. The
average porterage would be 1.25 km (varying from 3.9 km to 0.4 km).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
12.       The sares served by a dam site would provide unskilled labor for
construction of the dam. An average dam would necessitate an unskilled
labor force of 85 for a period of about 115 days; this is equivalent to
about 15 man-days per family, which is considerably less than the time ancd
effort at present spent in collecting water from distant valleys during the
dry season.
13.       Unskilled labor would be hired at about CFAF 350 (US$1.40) per man-
day; this is justified on the following grounds.  The population in a 5-km
radius of the proposed dam sites can be ranked amongst Cameroon's poorest.'
The absolute poverty level for the country (1976 Bank estimate) is about
US$70 per capita; estimated net farm family incomes in the subproject area
are as low as CFAF 37,000 for a family of 5, or US$30 per capita. Cash
incomes are reduced to some CFAF 45 (US$0.18) per man-day of family field
labor, which reaches a peak at harvest time (October/November). Under these
conditions, able-bodied family members move to the plains in the largely
inactive dry season in search for a minimum income that would satisfy cash
requirements beyond subsistence and provide some savings. They find those
employment opportunities in (i) urban centers like Maroua and Garoua in civil
construction paid at about CFAF 350 (US$1.4) per man-day; (ii) seasonal work
for Government (well brigades) paid at about CFAF 380 (US$1.5) per man-day;
(iii) field work on irrigated crops, where payments vary between CFAF 250
(US$1.0) and CFAF 125 (US$0.5) per man-day; and (iv) in a variety of casual
jobs. The dams subproject, with optimum construction periods from November
to March of each year, would have to work against this traditional migratory
flow by giving local unskilled labor sufficient cash incentives. In such
circumstances, payment to about 44,000 man-days of unskilled labor would
be justified, and the government minimum wage rates (CFAF 350, or US$1.4
per man-day) are appropriate since they reflect the opportunity cost of such
labor. Finally, any mix of paid and unpaid unskilled labor would obviously
not be suitable.
14.       Dams would be gravity over-spill structures of grouted rubble
masonry with useful storage between 21 and 62 MCM. Their height would vary
between 6 and 8 m, with crest lengths between 45 and 130 m. Upstream faces
would have a 10% slope and the downstream face would be stepped to simplify
shuttering. The base width would be equal to the height of the dam. Where
necessary, 2 m deep cutoff walls 1 m wide would be constructed in the foun-
dations upstream and downstream.
15.       The subproject would finance:
(a) salaries for skilled and unskilled labor and super-
visory staff (Tables 3 and 4);
(b) purchase of equipment, vehicles, and construction
materials (Table 5);
(c) operating costs of vehicles (Table 5); and
(d) construction of access roads (Table 5).



ANNEX 6
Page 4
16.       Equipment would consist of mobile accommodation (caravans) for the
supervisory engineer and site foreman, stores, field office equipment, water
tanks and small tools required for construction. One 10 t truck, two 6 t
trucks, one 2,000 liter towed water-bowser, and three four-wheel drive pick-
ups would be supplied to the subproject.
17.       7.5 km of access roads would be constructed (Table 5), consisting
of rough tracks opened by bulldozer and blaided to grade.
Organization and Management
18.       To simplify construction management, the subproject area was chosen
so that dam sites would be relatively concentrated. The subproject would be
implemented by a dams construction unit (DCU) to be created within RES at
Maroua. A senior construction engineer, to be internationally recruited by
FSAR, would be responsible for detailed surveys and designs, and for the
organization of construction. He would recruit supervisory personnel and
skilled labor through RES at Mokolo and Maroua. The construction engineer
and his staff would also recruit unskilled local labor for each construction
site.
19.       The subproject would be carried out over four years.  First year
activities would include procurement of vehicles and equipment, engineering
survey and design, and recruitment and organization of unskilled labor.
The latter task would be the responsibility of two Community Development
(CD) officers, assigned to DCU by the Ministry of Agriculture.
20.       The works would be exeyuted on force account.  Construction has
been programmed for placing 10 m of completed grouted rubble masonry per
day. Dam construction would be carried out simultaneously on two sites at
a time. A construction foreman would be iIn charge of each site; he will be
recruited by the supervising engineer. Caravans would be supplied as site
accommodation to the foreman and the supervising engineer. Prefabricated,
dismountable stores and 2,000 lîter water tanks would be sited at the start
of the footpath to the damsites, and at the sites under construction. Trucks
would be used to transport materials from Maroua to the off-loading points
for the damsites, and to supply the water required for construction. Daily,
10 tons of material would have to be carried to the site by gangs of porters,
the size of the gangs being dependent on th,e quantity of material to be trans-
ported and the porterage distance (Table 4).
21.       Procurement of vehicles and equipmnent would be carried out by FSAR,
Yaounde, under international competitive bidding. Cement, small tools, and
other consumable goods would be procured locally by FSAR, Maroua,
Subproject Costs
22.       Base subproject costs, at end-1976 prices, net of import duties
and taxes, amount to about CFAF 338 million (US$1.4 million). Detailed



ANNEX 6
Page 5
scheduling is shown in Table 2. In addition, the subproject would finance
a health survey (para 24) at an estimated cost of about CFAF 12 million
(US$50,000).
Health Risks and Control Measures
23.       It can be anticipated that the construction of the dams in the
Mandara mountains would bring about certain health problems. Thus, under
the project, access to reservoirs would be limited by thorn hedges, and
animals would be watered separately from human water collection points.
The CD agents would advise the population in the use of simple, hygienic
water treatment methods. The spread of waterborne diseases, especially
schistosoniasis, is likely to occur. Since it is an endemic area, with
high population density, surveillance of the epidemiological situation
would be required. For this purpose, a surveillance mechanism to monitor
the health situation and identify the need and feasibility of control
actions would be set up by the Government health services in the subproj-
ect area. Assurances to this effect were received during negotiations.
24.       In addition the project would finance a health survey in the
project area, taking into account the general health situation in the
Northern Province. The survey, at an estimated cost of about CFAF 12 mil-
lion (US$50,000) would assess the available health infrastructure, the epi-
demiological situation, and the management and budgetary constraints. The
study would provide the data base for designing appropriate health actions
in the northern province, and assist the government in adjusting their health
strategy. It would include a section on cost effective modes of intervention
to deal with the major local endemic diseases. Terms of reference are at
Appendix 1.



ANZNEX 6
Table 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUÈqD PROJECT
SMALL DAMS
General Characteristics
Reference 1   Total        Live 2/   pop.3/   Access    Porter-   Masonry   Complet-4/
Number       Storage   Storage   Served        Road        age      Quantit-    ion
(Sarés)    Length   Distance    ies
_MmC     ilfmC      No.        Km.          Km.       m3        weeks
81            110.0       56.4    1,150        --          3.9      1,010       20.2
32             72.C)      32.9       670        --         0.8        880       17.6
34             72.0       33.3       680       0.3         0.5        920       18.4
9             80.0       43.0       880      3.3          0.0     1,090        21.8
73             66.6       38.2       780       1.2         1.9        970       19.4
67            105.C)      61.8    1,260         --         0.8      2,150       43.0
4             55.4       30.5       620      2.1          0.4     1,100        22.0
17             43.6       25.0       510        --         1.8      1,090       21.8
16             35.0       20.6       420        --         0.8      1,060       21.2
69             55.0       22.1       450       0.6         1.5      1,120       22.4
Total:                       7,420       7.5        12.4    11,390       228.8
1/ Reference to iindex number of damsite in Sogreah study.
2/ Live storage utilized in nine months. Streamflow from July to
September exceeds the storage capacity.
3/ An average saré comprises five people, seven sheep or goats, 0.25
liead cattle,, and consumes 180 1/day or 49 m3 in nine months.
4/  Based on placïng 50 m3 masonry in a five--day week (8-hr. day), with
38 working weeks/year, two work gangs (details Table 3) would
complete construction in three years.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SMALL DAMS
Schedule of Expenditures
PYl        PY2         PY3        PY4         Total        Local        Foreign   Foreign
----------------------------------------CFAF Millions-------------------------------
A.  Investment 1/
Equipment             36.900         -          -           -       36.900        9.235       27.665       75
Vehicles              33.400         -          -           -       33.400        5.010       28.390       85
Materials                -       24.032      24.032      24.032     72.096       25.905       46.191       64
Access Roads           4.500       4.500        -           -         9.000       4.050        4.950       55
Subtotal         74.800      28.532      24.032     24.032    151.396        44.200      107.196       68
B. Operating Costs 1/
Vehicles               3.930     13e100      13.100      13.100     43.230       19.453       23.777       55
C.  Wages and Salaries 2/
Labor Wages              -       15.021      15.021      15.021     45.063       45.063          -          0
Supervision            4.140     11.821      11.821      11.821     39.603       39.603 _                   0
Subtotal          4.140      26.842      26.842     26.842      84.666       84.666          -          0
D.  Expatriate Staff          14.000      14.000     14.000      14.000      56.000          -         56.000      100
E.  Health Survey             12.000         -           -          -        12.000        2.400        9.600       80
BASE COST                108.870      82.474     77.974      77.974    347.292      150.719      196.573       57
1-Dasae
1/ Details Table 54
2/  Details Table 4.                                                                                                    |



ANNEX 6
Table 3
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
SMALL DAMS
Labor Requirements
1.    Constuction     /    14o   3.
1.    Construction program-       11,400 m  in three years (114 weeks)
1Om3 masonry completed daily
2 construction gangs working
2/
2.    Quantities-
10 m3 finished rubble masonry requires:
Item           Qty.         Weight
Broken stone        8m3           On Site
Sand                4m3           7.2 T
Water             l.Om3           1.0 T
Cement            1.75 T          1.8 T
Total Weight Transported:                    10.0 T
3.    Labor Requirements  (Dam construction team)
(a)  Foundation Freparation
270m3 excavation for average 930m dam
= 0.27m3/m3 masonry. Say 0.30m3/m3.
At 0.5m3/man-day, labor requirement = 0.30 x 10 = 6
C. 50
(b)  Rockfill for masonry
At 0.5m3/man-day, labor requirement = 8   16
0.5
(c)  Mixing mortar
lOm3 finished masonry requires 4m3 mortar
At 800 l/man-day, labor requirement = 4.0 = 5
o .8
(d)  Placing rubble masonry
At 0.5m3/man-day, labor requirement = LO = 20
0.5
Sub-total - Construction Team          47
(e) Porterage (materials to site)
Average speed 2 km/hr both ways and 25 kg/porter
1 T moved 1 km in 8 hrs.
require  1    x 1  x 1 = 2.5 Porters
0.025   8    2   per ton/km/day
1/   Based labor working 8 hrs/day and 5 days/week.
2/   See Table 1.



CAMEROON                                                         TabLe 4
RURAL DEVELOPMET FUN  PROJECT
SMALL DAMS
Cost of Labor Requfrements
Cons-         Cons-                       2/                                         3/
Reference No.       Masonry    truction        truction _       Porterage             Porters      Porter    Loading-         Total
Volume     Period         Labor                                   required    Labor           Un-         Labor
man-days       Total    Per day                     man-days    loading        Required
m3        days        thousands      T. km    T. kmi              No.      thousand   man-days       man-days
thousand      required
81                1,010        101          4,747        3,939          39           98         9,898        0,808        15,453
32                  880         88         4,136          704            8           20        1,760         o,704         6,600
34                  920         92         4,324           460           5           12.5      1,150         0,736         6,210
9                1,090        109         5.123        2,071           19           48         5,232        0,872        11,227
73                  970         97         4.559           776           8           20         1,940        o,848         9,858
67                2,150       215         10,105           860           4           10         2,150        1,720        13,975
4                1,100       110          5,170        1,980          18            45        4,950         0.880        11,000
17                1,090        109          5,123          872           8           20         2,180        0,872         8,175
'6                1,o60       106          4,982        1,590           15           38         4,028        o,848         9,858
69                1,120       112           5,264          560           5           12.5       1,400        0,896         7,560
Tota:                                        53,533       13,812                                 34,688        9,112        97,3S3
Labor Vages
Daily        Cost
Rate         CFAF
Man-days      CFAF         millions
Construction workers            53.533        56o          29.978
Porters and Loaders             43.100        350          15.085
Total:                              45.063   Total for 3 years
4/
Supervision (of Construction Gangs)
Per Gang      Total     Monthly         Total      Offic:ia1
Salary        Annual       Salary
CFAF          CFAF       Category
Million
Rural Engineering Service
Foremen                                   1           2         62,270        1,494       VIII 6
Charge hands                              5         10         17,812         2,137       IV   6
Masons                  5/8                                     12,444        0,896       III  5
Porters' Chef d'équipe-                   2           4         12,444        o.448       III  5
Watchmen                                  2           4          7,700        2.772       I    1
Drivers                                               7         23,000        1.932
2
Community Development Service
2   Ag. Devp. Agents                                  2         35,750        0.858       V    6
Field Allovance 6/                                                            1.284
Annual Total                                             11.821
Z Foreip
Expatriate Staff                                                             14.000      100
1/   Construction team - 47 laborers (Table 3) plus supervision.
2/ Details Tables 1 and 3.
3/   8 laborers.
/   Foreman, charge hands, drivers and comsunity development staff salaries based
on 12 months per year. Other staff based on nine months.
5/   One chef d'équipe per 15 porters.
g/   Field allovance 20% paid to foremen, charge-hands, drivers and community
development staff.



ANNEX 6
Table 5
CAMEROOCI
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SMALL DAMS
Equipment, Materials, and Operating Costs
Unit                  Cost                     Foreign
No.      Cost       TOTAL      LOCAL       FOREIGN       Exchange %
(CFAF'000)
A. Equipment
Caravans                              3        3,300     9.900       1.485       8.415            85
Portable Stores (60m2, 25 t
capacity)                           2        3,000     6.000       3.600       2.400            40
Field Office Eqliipment (sets)        5        1,000     5.000       0.750       4.250            85
Water tanks (2,000 1)                 4          500     2.000       0.300       1.700            85
Small tools (sets)                    2        2,000     4.000       1.600       2.400            50
Compressor                            1        3,000     3.000       0.450       2.550            85
Cable-trolley                         1        5,000     5.000       0.750       4.250            85
Motorpumps and concrete mixers       1/1       1,000     2.000       0.300       1.700            85
Subtotal                                           36.900       9.235     27.665            75
B.  Vehicles.
Truck 10 t                            2        6,000    12.000       1.800      10.200            85
Towed water bowser 2,000 1            1        1,300     1.300       0.195       1.105            85
Truck 4 x 4                           2        6,000    12.000       1.800      10.200            85
Pickup 4 x 4 long whell base          3        2,700     8.100       1.215       6.885            85
Subtotal                                           33.400       5.010     28.390            85
C.  Materials (annual requirement)
Sand                              1,520 m3       600     0.912       0.502       0.410           45
Curent                              665 t    28,000    18.620        7.448      11.172           60
Miscellaneous                     2 sites      1,250     2.500       0.375       2.125            85
Replacement tools                    50%       2,000     2.000       0.300       1.700            85
Annual Total                                       24.032       8.625     15.407            64
D.  Operating Costs (Vehicles)
Trucks 10 t (2)                  20,000 km       125     5.000       2.250      2.750            55
Trucks 6 t (2)                                    90     3.600       1.620       1.980           55
Pickups 4 x 4 (3)                                 75     4.500       2.025      2.475            55
Annual Total                                       13.100       5.895      7.205            55
E.  Access Roads                        7.5 km                9.000      4.050       4.950           55



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Small Dams
Health Survey - Terms of Reference
Main Objectives
1.        The subproject would finance a health survey of the project area,
to assess the available health infrastructure, the epidemiological situation
and the management and budgetary constraints of the health services. The
survey would provide the data base for the design of appropriate health
actions in the Mandara mountains, and would assist the Government in adjulst-
ing its health strategy in the Northern Province.
Scope of the Survey
2.        Particular attention would be given to the following issues:
(i) description of current health status in the greater
project area, based on the analysis of available
data and national health indicators and, if neces-
sary, on sample surveys;
(ii) prevalence and incidence of those endemic and
epidemic diseases which are of signal importance
for the project area: schistosomiasis, malaria
and gastrointestinal diseases;
(iii) structure and organization of the regional health
care system in the context of the overall Govern-
ment health policies and priorities;
(iv) health programs presently operated;
(v) cost effective modes of intervention to deal with
major endemic diseases;
(vi) expenditures for health services and methods of
finance and financial control;
(vii) utilization and social acceptance of services being
rendered;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
(viii) accessibility of facilities, services and methods
of logistic support; and
(ix) role of external assistance.
Organization and Cost
3.        The survey would be carried out during PY 1 by a consultant team
to be employed by FSAR, comprising qualified iCameroonian personnel and inter-
nationally recruited staff. The total survey cost, including field work
and report writing, is estimated (end-1976 prices) at about CFAF 12 million
(US$50, 000).



ANNEX 7
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Village Wells, Pumps and Boreholes
A. Introduction
1.        The supply of drinking water is generally inadequate in most of the
villages in the four Departments of Diamare, Mayo Danai, Margui Wandala and
Logone et Chari. Surface water is only available during and immediately after
the rainy season, and traditionally dug wells cannot be sunk sufficiently
deep into the water table to guarantee water throughout the year. The waLter
obtained from both shallow and unlined wells is usually of questionable qual-
ity and unhealthy for human consumption. During the dry season villagers
have to walk long distances (up to 5 km) to reach water for domestic use,
and livestock watering becomes a serious problem.
B. Present Situation
2.        In 1976, on the suggestion of the Bank Preparation Mission, the
Rural Engineering Service (RES) made an inventory of wells in the Northern
Province, noting their condition. Of the 1,366 wells listed, 576 required
deepening or major repairs. Some 75% of the wells are more than 10 years
old and little, if any, maintenance has been carried out on them.
3.        The present rural population of the four Departments is estimated
at 967,400 and is projected to rise to 1,021,000 by 1981 (Table 1). Each
serviceable water point is at present providing water for about 1,200 people
and their livestock. The per capita availability of water, for both human
and livestock consumption, is less than 15 liters per day.
4.        The subproject area can be divided into 3 geomorphological units:
(i) the almost horizontal Diamare plains to the east which link up with the
Logone plains; (ii) the Mandara mountains made up of a series of high pla-
teaux separated by igneous ridges rising to an altitude of more than 1,400
m; (iii) the Kaele-Mindif peneplain forming the transition south of Marouia
between the crystalline rocks of the mountainous area to the west and the
quaternary sediments to the north and east. The gently rolling topography
of this peneplain is dominated by a series of inselbergs, formed by intru-
sive granites and syenites.
5.        In the quaternary sediments of the Diamare plain the alluviums
present varying degrees of permeability. The water table depth at the end



ANNEX 7
Page 2
of the dry season varies from something less than 15 m near the Logone in
the east, to 45 m northwest of Maroua towards the Nigerian border. The
alluviums vary in thickness from about 20 m along the western edge of the
plain, to some 500 m along the Logone river.
6.        In the mountainous area to the west there is no generalized acqui-
fer, except in the open alluvial plain to the north of Koza. Groundwater
can be found in localized acquifers along fault:s or in the alteration zones
of the igneous formations.
7.        RES has established well brigades in each Department.  The equip-
ment and vehicles are in generally poor condit:Lon and the brigades' activi-
ties are seriously limited by lack of funds. The available equipment and
vehicles in working order are listed in Table :3. In 1975/76, 28 new wells
(464 meters) were constructed, and 80 wells (297 meters) were repaired in
the four Departments.
8.        The Hydrogeological Service (HS) of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy, with the support of the UNDP Groundwater Project, GIR/74/013, has
been using its rotary drilling rig (a Failing 210) to provide production
boreholes in the sedimentary formations. It is also continuing reconnais-
sance work in the crystalline areas with a Sterwick percussion rig. 24 pro-
duction wells and 38 reconnaissance boreholes were drilled between January
and June 1976. The production boreholes are being equipped with hand- or
pedal-operated pumps, which are performing satisfactorily.
C.  The Subproject
9.        The subproject would provide improved village water supply in
four northern Departments (Diamare, Mayo Danai, Margui Wandala and Logone
et Chari) by repairing, deepening and re-instaiting 576 defective wells, by
maintaining 790 existing productive wells, and by drilling 430 new boreholes
and equipping them with pumps. In addition, 60 of the re-instated wells
would be capped and equipped with pumps to compare water quality provided
by capped and uncapped wells. This program woluld provide a water service
of one water point for 560 people, in line withl the objective of the Gov-
ernment's Fourth Development Plan.
10.       The subproject would equip the RES open well brigades in each
Department with equipment and vehicles and would provide them with material
and operating costs. It is estimated that an average repair would be
equivalent to deepening and lining 6 m of well, and that each equipped
brigade would be capable of re-instating 50 weLls per year. A new unit
would be established in RES to install and maintain the hand- or pedal-operated
pumps, 1/ with which boreholes and capped wells would be equipped.  HS Garoua
1/   Hydraulic pumps of this type, requiring minimum maintenance, are being
successfully operated in the Northern Province and in Upper Volta.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Section would be provided with a new percussion rig, i.e. it would then have
a total of three rigs. This would enable it to make use of one percussion
rig to continue with exploratory drilling in the crystalline formations; this
responsibility is independent of the project. At the same time, the HS would
use the remaining two rigs for installing properly gravel packed and devel-
oped production boreholes under the project. Each rig would have an annual
capacity for drilling about 70 boreholes (average depth 36 m) which would
be cased with PVC casing 4-1/2 inches diameter and 8 m of well screens. The
implementation program has been prepared to allow for the unit to install
boreholes as required under the market gardening subproject (Annex 4). The
project would provide the material for installing boreholes, and the operat-
ing costs of the two drilling rigs. The project would share the HS Garoua
Section overheads, and pay the HS Manager's salary and allowances.
D. Organization and Management
11.       The subproject would be implemented over a four-year period.
Open wells rehabilitation and maintenance would be carried out by Departmental
sections of RES, which would receive additional staff and equipment, and would
be assigned full-time to the subproject. Pump installation and maintenance
would be entrusted to a pump unit to be established at RES, Maroua. The main
RES workshop at Maroua would be equipped and, under the management of an
internationally recruited maintenance engineer to be appointed for 4 years,
would provide complete overhaul facilities for the four brigades and for the
operation and maintenance of pumps. The engineer would also prepare a program
to train selected villagers in routine pump maintenance. Staff details are in
Tables 5 and 6.
12.       Production boreholes would be drilled by the HS Garoua unit, under
the existing Cameroonian manager and staff who would be assigned to the sub-
project. An internationally recruited drill instructor would be appointed
for PY 2 and PY 3 to train local drilling teams. Details of staffing are in
Table 9. After completion of a production borehole by the HS unit it would
be developed and a pumping test carried out before the RES unit installs
the plmp. Pumps would not be installed on boreholes discharging less than
1.0 m /hour.
13.       A work program and budget would be prepared annually by the RES and
the HS Garoua units assigned to the subproject; after discussion with the FSAR
Field Manager they would be submitted to FSAR, Yaounde, for final review and
approval by Government. FSAR would submit, not later than April 30, annual RES
and HS implementation programs and budgets to IDA for approval. Selection



ANNEX 7
Page 4
of wells for inclusion in the annual rehabilitation program, and of villages
to be equipped with boreholes, would be made after consultation with local
authorities. Procurement of vehicles and equ.ipment would take place during PY
1; the subproject would operate at full capacity as of PY 2. The implementa-
tion schedule is at Table 2.
14.       The subproject would finance:
(i)  equipment and vehicles for open well rehabilitation
brigades (Table 3);
(ii)  equipment and vehicles for a pump installation and
maintenance unit (Table 6);
(iii) equipment and vehicles -- incremental -- for the
borehole. drilling unit (Table 7);
(iv) incremental salaries, operating costs and materials
for wells rehabilitation, and pumps and boreholes
installation and maintenance (Tables 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9).
15.       Subproject costs, based on end-1976 quotations net of import duties
and identifiable taxes, are detailed in Table 2, and summarized below:
CFAF Million            US$ Thousand
Open Wells
Investment                182                      740
Operating                 113                      460
Local Personnel            59                      240
Subtotal            354                    1,440
Pumps
Investme.nt               104                      420
Operating                  21                       85
Local Personnel             6                       24
Subtotal            131                      529
Boreholes
Investment                145                      590
Operatin.g                 64                      260
Local Personnel             7                       28
Expatriate Staff           56                      228
Subtotal            272                    1,106
Subproject Base Cost    753                      3,075



ANNEX 7
Page 5
E. Justification
16.       The subproject would re-instate 600 unproductive wells.  It would
additionally provide 430 new water points by drilling and equipping borehoLes.
Overall, the village water supply component would provide good quality water
for about 1 million rural inhabitants. The present ratio of 1 water point
to about 1,200 people would be improved to 1 water point to 560 people,
and water availability would be expected to rise from under 15 liters/head/day
to about 30 liters/head/day. The per capita investment cost of the water
supply/program would be about CFAF 850 (US$3.5). The unit cost of the works,
derived from total costs in Table 2, is as follows:
Unit Costs                                       CFAF Million        US$
Open well repaired                                   0.88           3,600
Well repaired, capped and equipped
with pump                                          1.20           4,900
Borehole equipped with pump                          1.02           4,200
Equivalent cost of new open well /1                  2.42           9,800
/1   Well repair equivalent to 6 m of new construction.  Average depth of
wells 16.5 m.
17.       The justification for capping repaired wells and equipping them
with pumps depends on the improvement in water quality anticipated. The
unit cost of a capped well is close to that of a borehole and consequently
60 wells are proposed for capping under the subproject. The unit costs do
not justify digging new open wells, which in addition have a far shorter
useful life than boreholes.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
VILLAGE WELLS, PUMPS AND BOREHOLES
Water Points Recuirements and 197/-1981 Development Program
4/
Population                        Existing Water Points
Department           Total                       Rural
1973 1/     1973 2/      1977 3/      1981 3/       Total       Out of Order
--- -housanT -                       -        - -               units-------
Diamarei               383.3        321.8         334.8       348.5         598            280
Margui-Wandala          360.4       345.0         366.2       388.6         241            106
Logone et Chari        108.6        100.5         103.7       107.1         239             80
Mayo Danai              181.1       157.6         162.7       167.9         288             110
Totals          1`033.4        924.9         967.4_   1012.1         1,366            576
1977-1981 Development Program
Water Points
(units)
Out of O-rder                        576           To be rehabilitated
Existing in order                    790           To be maintained
Total existing                     1,366
New boreholes                        430           To be drilled
Total water points by 1981         1,796           One water point to 560
rural inhabitants
1/  ONAREST, 1972/73 Agricultural census.                                                                                H
2/  1970 projections of identifiable towns, as per "Croissance Demographique et Immigrations au Cameroon",
and 1975 ORSTOM working paper; basic data from 1/ updated by 6o/o.
3/  1973 estimate with following growth rates: 10/o Diamaré, 0.80/o Mayo-Danai and Logone-Chari, and 1.50/o ~j
Margui-Wandala. Basic data in 2/ scaled down by 300/o to allow for rural-urban migration and for
emigration from project area.
4/  Genie Rural, Ministry of Agriculture, Well Inventory, July 1976.



CAhEROON                                                          AN04EX 7
RURAL DEVE7WhENT FUND PROJECT                                                 Table 2
VILLADE WELOS. PU)IP AND BORE3DLRSS
Schedule of ImIlamentation *nd Colt
(In end-1976 terms)
PYI          F02           PY3           PY4           Total
0o:pl.aentat1o5 ProRr m
Wells rehabilitated                                     80           166           165           165             576
Of which:  Capped and equipped vith pumps                9            17            17            17              60
Annual msaintenance capacity                             -            34            35            35             104
Boreholes isstalled and equipped with pumps              50           135           125           120             430
Total           Local           Foreigo         7. Foreign
---------------------------------------CFAF Million--------------------------------------
Coats
1.  Investmennt  1/                                 78.090           -             -                         7 86.090         11.714          66.376              85
-Vehicles -                        16.000           -             -             -            16.000            2.400          13.600             85
- Materials 2/                      10.347        25.868        25.868       25.868          87.951           29.903           58.048             66
Subtotal                       104.437        25.868        25.868       25.868         182.041           44.017          138.024             75
2. Operating      Vehicles and equipment            17.488        43.720       43.720        43.720         148.648           S2.432          86.216              58
-ess present operating costs                 8.990        8.990         8.990         8.990          35.960           14.024          21.936              61
Subtotal                         8.498        34.730        34.730       34.730         112.688           48.408           64.280            _i7
3.  Staff salaries 2/                               27.896        27.896        27.896       27.896         111.584          111.584              -                O
Sess present staff costs                    13.091       13.091        13.091        13.091          52.364           52.364             _ -
Subtotal                        14.805        14.805        14.805        14.805         59.220           59.220              _               O
Subtotal - Open Well Brigades           127.740         75.403       75.403        75.403         353.949          151.645         202.304             ';7
4/
B.  Pup Installation and Maintenance -
4.  Inv1st.enL - Pumps                               9.750         25.050       23,400        22.650         80.850            12.128          68.722             85
= Equipment                          2.500            -            -             -            2.500            0.375            2.125            135
Vehicles                           1.500          1.500        3.000           -             6.000            0.900           5.100             85
Well head installations             1.770         4.560        4.260         4.110          14.700           10.290           4.410            _30
Subtotal                        15.520         31.110       30.660       26.760         104.050           23.693           80.357             77
5. Operating  - Equipment                            0.397          0.778        1.249        1.720           4.144             1.329           2.815             S8
Vehicles                           1.500          3.000        6.000         6.000          16.500            7.425           9.075             55
Subtotal                         1.897          3.778        7.249         7.720          20.644            8.754          11.890            _58
6.  Staff salaries                                   0.603          1.206        2.412        2.412           6.633             6.633             -                O
Subtotal - Pump Installation and
Maintenance                   18.020         36.094       40.321        36.892         131.327           39.080          92.247            _70
(:. Borehole Drilling Unit
7.  Investment -    ipmet5/                         70.200            -            -             -           70.200            10.530          59.670             85
- Vehi.les _                        10.700            -            -             -           10.700             1.605           9.095             85
- Materials 6/                       7.500         20.250       18.750       18.000          64.500            12.900          51.600            _80
Subtotai                        88.400         20.250       18.750       18.000         145.400            25.035         120.365            _82
8. Operating --Equipsent                             4.196         16.971       15.714        15.086         51.967            23.385          28.582             55
- Vebicles                           5.175         10.350       10.350        10.350          36.225           16.301          19.924             55
Les. preaent operating costs                 6.102          6.102       6.102         6.102          24.408            8.299          16.109              66
Subtotal                         3.269         21.219       19.962        19.334          63.784           31.387          32.397             50
9.  Staff Salaries 7/                                5.860          8.210        8.210        8.210          30.490            30.490             -                O
Lesa present staft costs                     5.860          5.860       5.860         5.860          23.440           23.440                               O
Subtotal                           -            2.350        2.350         2.350           7.050            7.050             -                O
10. Expatriate staff                                 14.600         14,000       14.000        14.000         56.000               -            56.000            L00
Subtotal - Borehole Drilling Unit        105.669         57,819      55.062        53.684         296.234           68.272         203.962              69
TOTAL BASE COST                            251,429        169.316     170.786       165.979         757.510          254.197         505.313              66
l/  Details Table 3.
2/ Details Table 4 - Operating coest  RES 1976/7 Budget.
3/ Details Table 5 - Present staff salaries Ministry of Agriculture Northern Province 1976/7 Budget.
4/ Details Table 6.
5/ Details Table 7.
6/ Details Table 8 - Present operating coats, VNDP Groundwter 1976 Project Report.
7/  Details Table 9 - Present staff salaries UNDP Groundwater 1976 Project Report.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
VILLAGE WELLS, PUMIPS AND BOREHOLES
Open Well Brigades
Equipment and Vehicles - Investment Costs -
(In end 1976-terms)
Quantity  Total 2/             3/
Required  Quantity  Presently-               Rate                                    Foreigu
Item                   per Brig. Required  Serviceable  Total    Unit         Cost      Local      Foreiga      %
CFAF '000  -CFAF Million
1. Equipment
Sheerlegs. winch and cable    5          20          l          19       250      4,750                            85
Compressor and air tools        2         8          4           4     3,000    12,000                             85
Air p~umps                      2         8          1           7       450      3,150                            85
Mobile derrick                  1         4          -           4     6 000    24,000                             85
2,000 litre water tank          5        20          3          17       650    11.050                             85
Prefabricated pipe moulds       3        12          6           6     1,000      6,000                            85
Well-lining shuttering          5        20         12           8        220     1,960                            85
Well head shuttering            1         4          4           -       300        -                              85
Small tools (sets)              5        20          -          20       300      6,000                            85
200 litre self-tipping
bucket                       3         12          -          12       110      1,320                            85
50 litre self-tipping bucket 10          40          2          38         50     1,900                            85
Bailer                          1         4          -           4        200       800                            85
2000 litre towed water
bowser                        2         8          -           8       400      3,200                            85
Concrete mixer - 150 litre    1           4          -           4       490      l,960                            85
SubTotal            78,090   11,714    66,376         85
2. Vehicles
3/4 ton pickup                  2         8          4           4     1,300      5,200                            85
4 x 4 long-wheel base pickup  1           4          -           4     2,700    10,800                             85
10 t truck                      1         4          4           -     7,650        -                              85
SubTotal            16,000    2,400    13,600         85
TOTAL               94,090   14,114    79.976         85
*P
1/  Investment costs exclude taxes and import duties.
2/ Total required for re-equipping 4 brigades completely.
3/ Source - Genie Rural inventory.



CAMEROON
IUTA-T. DERVF.TOPMENT FIUND PROJECT
VILLAGE WELLS, PUMPS AND BOREHOLES
Open Well Brigades
Materials Costs and Operating Costs - Vehicles and Equipment
(In end-1976 terms)
Item                   Quantity    Unit       Rate       Total       Cost Local    Foreign        % Foreign
CFAF      ----                CFAF Million------------------
1. Materials -
Cement                    60        t        28,000      1.680       0.756          0.924            55
Gravel                   150        m3         6,500     0.975       0.682          0.293             30
Sand                      85        m3           600     0.051       0.036          0.015             30
Water                     45      1,000 lit.  3,000      0.135       0.095          0.040             55
Reinforcing Steel          8        t       372,000      2.976       0.446          2.530             85
Stirrups                 450        no.        1,000     0.450       0.068          0.382             85
Miscellaneous                       L.S.    200,000      0.200       0.100          0.100             50
Subtotal                                             6.467       2.183          4.284            66
2. Vehicles and Equipment
3/4 ton Pickups            2      2,500 km        60     3.000       1.350          1.650             55
4x4 long-wheel base        1      2,500 km        75     1.875       0.844          1.031             55
10 t Truck                 1      2,500 km       125     3.125       1.406          1.719             55
Compressor                 2        500 los.  1,500      1.500       0.675          0.825             55
Mobile derrick              1     1,500 los.    115      0.172       0.077          0.095             55
Concrete mixer             1        500 los.    115      0.058       0.026          0.032             55
Spares and tools
replacement                                    L.S.    1.200       0.240          0.960             80
Subtotal                                            10.930       4.618          6.312            58
TOTAL (1 Brigade)                                   17.397       6.801         10.596            61
(4 Brigades)                                 69.588      27.Z04         42.384             61
t Materials for 50 wells re-installed annually per brigade.  Average relining or deepenîng - 6m plus
reconstruction of well-head and capping 60 wells.



CAMEROON                                     ANNEX 7
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT                           Table 5
VILLAGE WELLS  PUMPS AND BOREHOLES
I, Well Brtigades
Personnel
Unit       Total _/                   Total                  2/
Monthly    Annual                     Per           Official -
Salary     Salary        Number       Department   Salary
Item                   Quantity    CFAF        CFAF Mil.    of Teams    CFAF Mil.    Category
1. Well lining team
Chargehand                     1       12,444      0.149                                   III 5
Diggers                        2        8,242      0.148                                      I 5
Laborers                       3        7,700      0.208                                     I l
Subtotal                                      0.505            5        2,525
2. Well head team
Chargehand                     1       12,444      0.149                                   III 5
Mason                          1         8,242     0.074                                      I 5
Laborers                       3        7,700      0.208            _
Subtotal                                      0.431            1        0.431
3. Supply team
Drivers                        2       12,444      0.299                                   III 5
Laborers                       4         7,700     0.277                                      I 1
Subtotal                                      0.576            1        0.576
4. Office Staff
Brigade supervisor             1       85,634      1.028                                    IX 4
Foreman                        1       62,278      0.747                                   VII 6
Mechanic                       1        10,004     0.120                                    Il 4
Assistant Mechanic             1         8,242     0.099                                      I 5
Drivers                        2        12.444     0.299                                   III 4
Bookeeper/Storeman             1       12,116      0.L46                                    IV 1
Laborers                       2         7,700     0.185                                      I 1
Watchman                       1         7,700     0,092                                     I 1
Subtotal                                      2 716            i        2,716
Field Allowances                                                                794
Total  per Brigade                            6.974
for 4 Brigades                       27.896
1/ Chargehands, drivers and all office staff annual salary based on 12 months per year. Well diggers,
masons and laborers based on 9 months per year.
2/ 1976 Public Sector salary scale. Roman figures indicate Category, Arabic figures indicate echelon
within each category. All figures for Zone III Northern Province.
3/  Field allowances 20% of salary payable to Brigade supervisor, foreman.mechanics, chargehands and
drivers.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
VITTLLAE WFLLS  PUMPS AND BOREHOLES
Pump Installation and Maintenance
Schedule of Investment and Operating Costs
(In end-1976 terms)
PYI        PY2         PY3         PY4         Total
Boreholes and Capped Wells equipped  - annually                    59          152         142         137         490
- cumulative               59          211        353         490
Unit         Total
Rate         Quantity                                                                                              %
CFAF '000   No.                                    Cost                    Total       Local       Foreign    Foreign
- -______________----------CFAF Million-
1/
1.  Equipment and vehicles -
Pumps installed 2/                        150          490         8.850      22.800      21.300      20.550       73.500
Pumps - Reserve stock                     150           49         0.900       2.250       2.100       2.100        7.350
Workshop equipment                      2,500          L.S.        2.500         -           -           -          2.500
3/4 T pickup                            1.500            4         1.500       1.500       3.000                    6.000
Subtotal                                                     13.750      26.550     26.400      22.650        89.350    13.402       75.948         85
2.  Material for well-head                 30.000          490         1.770       4.560       4.260       4.110       14.700    10.290         4.410         30
3.  Personnel (per team) -                  Monthly      Total
4 teams required.                    Salary       Annual
Number   CFAF          CFAF Mil.
Mechanic                         1      10.004       0.120
Driver                          1       12.444       0.149
Mason                            l       8.424       0.074         1 team    2 teams    4 teams    4 teams
Laborers                        3        7.700       0.208
Field allowance                                      0.054
Suibtotal                                      0.603          0.603       1.206       2.412       2.412        6.633      6.633          -            °
4.  Operating Costs               Number   Unit          Rate CFAF
Vehicles                        4       25.000km         60         1.500       3.000       6.000       6.000       16.500      7.425      9,075           55
Workshop                                Year       250.000         0.250       0.250       0.250        0.250        1.000      0.700      0.300           30
Pump spares                   490       Pump         3.000         0.147       0.528       0.999        1.470        3.144      0.629      9.515           80
Subtotal                                                      1.897       3.778       7.249       7.720       20.644      8.754    11.890            58
TOTAL                                                       18.020      36.094      40.321      36.892      131.327    39.079    92.248             70
1/   Investment costs exclude local taxes and import duties.
2/   430 boreholes plus 60 pohmps on capped. rehabilitated wells.
3/   Mechanic and driver salaries based on 12 months per year plus 20% field allowance.  Other salaries based on 9 months per year.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
VILLAGE WELLS, PUMPS AND BOREHOLES
Borehole Unit
Equipment and Vehicles l/
(In end-1976 terms)
Item                                 Quantity   Unit Rate    Total    Cost Local    Foreign    % Foreign
CFAF '000                CFAF Million- 
1. Equipment
Mobile drilling rig                       1        29.500        29.500                                  85
Compressor truck                          1         8.750         8.750                                  85
Drilling equipment (sets)                 1         8.800         8.800                                  85
Pumping test and well development
equipment                               1         7.650         7.650                                  85
5,000 liter water bowser with
hydraulic crane                         1         9.000         9.000                                  85
Spares (approx. 10%)                                6.500         6.500     _85
Subtotal                                                    70.200      10.530      59.670          85
2. Vehicles
3/4 t pickup                              2         1.300         2.600       0.390       2.210          85
4x4 2.5 t pickup                          1         2.700         2.700       0.405      2.295           85
6 t Truck                                 1         5.400         5.400       0.810      4.590_          85
Subtotal                                                    10.700       1.605       9.095           85
TOTAL                                                       8O0900      12.135      68.765           85
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l/  Source -  Appraisal Mission estimates.  Only incremental equipment.
2/  Investment costs exclude taxes and import duties.



CAMEROON                             AiNEX 7
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT                   Table 8
VILILAGE WELLS. PUMPS AN]D BOREHOLES
Borehole UnIt
0perating Costs -Equipment and Vehicles- and Materials Costs
(In end-1976 terms)
Rate                        Cost
Item                      !uantity    Unit    CFAF    Total    Local    Foreign ---ei--
1.  Equipment and Vehicles 2/
A. Rotary rig                        1       hours   1.870   3.375                              55
Water bowser                     1       km         125   2.500                             55
3/4 ton pickup                   1       km          60   1.500                             55
6T truck                         1       km          90   1.800                             55
10T truck                        1       km         125   1.875                             55
Subtotal - annual (70 boreholes)                    11.050    4.972    6.078           55
- per borehole                              0.158    0.071    0.087
B.  Percussion rig                   1       hours   1.875   3.375                              55
Truck mounted compressor         1       hours   1,250   2 250                              55
Water bowser                     1       km         125   2.500                             55
3/4 ton pickup                   1       km          60   1.500                             55
4x4 2.5T pickup                  1       km          75   1.875                             55 
6T truck                         1       km          90   1.800  _                          55
Subtotal - annual (70 boreholes)                    13.300    5.985    7.315           55
- per borehole                              0.190    0.086    0.104
C. Truck mounted pump testing
equipment 3/                   1       hours   2.000   3 600    1.620    1.980            55
Total - annual operating                            27.95    12.577   15.373           55
2.  Materials (per borehole) 4i
Well casing 5/                  28       metric  3.500   0.098    0.015    0.083            85
Screens 5/                       8       metric  3.750   0.030    0.004    0.026            85
Gravel pack 5/                   0.85    n3      11.000   0.009    0.006    0.003           30
Spares and tool replacement        I      -S.    9.000   0.009    0.003    0.006            70
Miscellaneous (Bertonite, etc.)          L.S,    4.ooo   0.004    0.002    0,002            50
Total - materials per borehole                       0.150    0.030    0.120           80
1/ Appraisal Mission estimates.
2/ Annual equipment utilization; Drilling rigs and pumpïng test equipment 1,800  hrs.; water bowser
20,000 kms; pickups 25,000 km; 6T truck 20,000 km; 10T truck 15,000 km.
3/ 140 boreholes pumping-tested and developed annually.
4/ Average borehole depth 36 meters.
5/ Transport 50 km at CFAF 60/t/km.



CAMEROON                                 ANEX 7
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT                       Table 9
VILLAGE WELLS, P'UMPS AND BOREHOLES
Borehole Unit
Personnel
Unit                 /2
Monthly       Total 1"           Official 2/
Salary       Annual Salary       Salary
Item                        Number       CFAF          CFAF Million       Category
1. Rotary rig team -
Drill operator                         1        12,444         0.149               III 5
Assistant                              1        10.004         0,120                Il 5
Welder                                 1        10.004         0.120                II 5
Drivers                                4        12.444         0.597               III 5
Laborers                               4         7.700         0.277                 I 1
Field allowance                                                0.197
Subtotal                                                  1.460
2.  Percussion rig team
Drill operator                         1        12.444         0.149               III 5
Assistant                              1        10.004         0.120                Il 5
Welder                                 1        10.004         0.120                II 5
Drivers                                5        12.444         0,747               III 5
Laborers                               4         7.700         0,277                 I 1
Field allowance                                                0,227
Subtotal                                                  1.640
3.  Pumping tests and development
Chargehand                             1        12.444         0.149               III 5
Mason                                  1         10,004        0.120                II 5
Driver                                 1        12.444         0.149               III 5
Laborers                               3          7.700        0.208                 I 1
Field allowance                                                0.084
Subtotal                                                  0.710
4.  Proportion Garoua Overheads                1         L.S.           4.400
5.  Technical Assistance 5/                    1         L.S.          14.000
1/  Laborers  salaries based on 9 months per year without: field allowance.  All other local salaries
based on 12 months plus 20% field allowance.
2/  1976 Public sector sa]ary scale.
3/  Rotary rig team alreacty equipped by UNDP will operate from PY 1.
4/  Source - UNDP Project CMR/74/013.  Includes salaries and a1icwances, plus 50e office
overheads.
5/  Borehole Manager for the whole project period.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management Concept
1.        The proposed project would provide a line of credit through the
Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER) to finance a number of high
priority small-scale rural development projects. In their execution, maximum
use would be made of existing Government national services; at the same time,
for effective implementation, operational autonomy as well as financial and
management control would be needed. These are the key considerations that
have been borne in mind in framing the arrangements detailed below.
Role of FONADER
2.        From the analysis of the current position of FONADER (Annex 2),
it is clear that this institution suffers from several shortcomings, notably
overcentralization of procedures, lack of effective supervisory capacity and
too wide a spread of activities. Government has under consideration a re-
organization plan for FONADER, under which it would in the future:
(a) concentrate its activities on agricultural credit and be
transformed into a banking institution with access to
Central Bank rediscounting facilities;
(b) continue to provide financial management of funds for a
restricted number of rural development projects; and
(c) mobilise savings in the rural sector.
3.        Arrangements for handling disease control and input supply opera-
tions for cocoa and coffee, presently financed by Stabilization Funds and
constituting 55% of FONADER's outlays, have yet to be formulated. A study
on the organization that FONADER would require to carry out its new tasks,
financed by the European Development Bank (FED), is underway.
Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales
4.        Government would create within FONADER a unit to be denominated
Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales (FSAR) which would be ultimately responsible
for the RDF project execution. FSAR would be made up of a two-tier organiza-
tion (see Chart) consisting of:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(a)  a Di.XLectorate to be established within FONADER's head-
quarters at Yaounde that would prepare, implement and
supervise future RDF type projects in Cameroon. The main
responsibilities of this Directorate under the RDF proj-
ect would cover:
(i) establishment of annual programs and budgets, as well
as financial arrangements neededl to implement the RDF
project in consultation with the heads of the concerned
services in the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock,
and Mines and Energy;
(ii) procurement for the project;
(iii)  supervision and monitoring of project activities;
(iv) preparation of annual progress reports for submis-
sion to Government and IDA;
(v)  identification and preparation of subprojects to
be financed out of the unidentified allocation
in project costs. In this, the Directorate would
work jointly with the Direction des Etudes et Proj-
ects of the Ministry of Agriculture; and
(vi)  preparation of a second Rural Development Fund
projE:ct.
To carry cout these tasks, the FSAR Directorate would be
staffed with a Cameroonian Director and supporting staff.
(b)  Field Management Unit (FMU)
This woulcL operate from new offices 1/ to be built with
project ftnds at Maroua, which is the most convenient
administrative center for the five idcentified subprojects.
FMU would be staffed with:
(i) an irnternationally recruited chief operation officer,
responsible for the coordination of the unit's day-to-
day operations;
1/   At the end of t:he project period, these offices would become the local
office of FONAIOER; decentralization is foreseen as an essential need in
FONADER's reorganization (para 3).



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(ii) an accountant who would be responsible for keeping
the RDF account at Maroua; and
(iii) administrative staff and common service personnel for
equipment and vehicles who would utilise the existing
garage facilities of the Rural Engineering Service at
Maroua.
Operational Procedures
5.        During the normal Government budget preparation period (the fiscal
year runs from July 1) FSAR and the concerned services of the Ministries in-
volved would establish the project program and budget for the coming fiscal
year. It would then be necessary to establish:
(a) what the relative contributions of Government and IDA
would be in accordance with the financing arrangements
specified in the credit agreement; and
(b) what would be the cost of the basic emoluments of Govern-
ment staff to be assigned to the project.
It would then be the responsibility of the Ministries concerned to make the
necessary budget allocations covering projected expenditures. These annual
budgetary provisions would be shown as separate sections in ministerial
budgets.
6.        The difference between the estimate of the annual Governxment's
contribution and the cost of local personnel to be directly paid, would be
required to be paid quarterly by Government to the RDF account. Together
with IDA disbursements -- against the actual expenditures incurred -- the
fund would then to be able to finance all other operational costs and in-
vestment expenditures. Contracts would be entered into by FONADER on behalf
of the RDF project. Operational costs, other than local personnel costs,
would include:
(a) transfers to FONADER for reimbursement of the salaries of
FONADER staff detached to work full-time for the project;
(b)  payments of assignment allowances to Governnent personnel
seconded to the project;
(c)  transfers of funds to the RDF account to cover field opera-
tional expenditures.
FSAR would maintain separate subproject accounts on a revolving fund basis for
the stall fattening and market garden subprojects, to which loan repayments
and interest payments under these credit schemes would be credited. The RDF
account would be separate and distinct from FONADER's normal accounting
system.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
7.        This procedure would take into accounLt the need for assigned Gov-
ernment staff to continue to be paid in the normal way in order to preserve
their status, pension rights and promotion prospects; as well as for the
Government accounting system to continue to handle all questions relating
to basic pay adjustments (e.g. repayment of vehicle advances). It is appre-
ciated that this proposed system of Government salary payments carries with
it the risk that personnel assigned to the project would suffer from the
delays now being generally experienced, but this would be partially miti-
gated by the direct payment of assignment allowances.
Staff Requirements
8.        About 18 1/2 man/years of internationally recruited staff would be
required, made up as follows:
Period Required    Total Man/
Post                                  in Years          Years
1 FSAR field chief operation        full period.             4
officer
I credit specialist                 first two years.        2
(for fattening and market
gardening subprojects)
1 maintenance engineer              full period.             4
(for the RES workshop)
1 dam construction engineer         full period.            4
i borehole unit manager             full period.            4
1 consultant engineer               1/2                      1/2
(for Bottomland works)
Total                18 1/2
Job descriptions for these posts are given in Appendices 1 to 6.  If re-
quested by Government, the Agricultural Projects Management Unit (APMU) of
IDA's Western Africa Regional Office would assist in the selection of all
internationally recruited staff. Appointments of the FSAR's Director,
Field Manager and accountant would be made after consultation with IDA.
9.        For project management, the following senior Cameroon personnel
would be required:



ANNEX 8
Page 5
At Yaounde:
-    one FSAR director;
-    one accountant
At Maroua:
-    one accountant;
-    one credit manager who would, under the guidance of the
credit specialist in PY 1 and PY 2, administer opera-
tions under the Stall Fattening and Market Gardening
Subprojects;
one borehole unit manager; and
-    four heads of RES open well brigades.
10.       The FSAR director, the accountant and the credit manager together
with the necessary supporting staff at Yaounde and Maroua would be employed
by FONADER and assigned to work full-time for the project. All other staif
directly involved in subprojects would belong to the Government service con-
cerned, and would be assigned to work full-time to the relevant subprojects.
They would be on regular assignment terms and would receive the normal addi-
tional allowances applicable in such cases.
Appointment of Key Project Staff
11.       To avoid delays in the initiation of the project, it is essential
that key project staff such as the FSAR director and the Field manager be
appointed as soon as possible, to design the first annual project program
and to ensure its prompt implementation. During negotiations assurances
were received that: (i) all expatriate key project staff would be employed
under terms of reference, and with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA; and (ii) the FSAR Director, the Credit Manager and the accountant
would be appointed under consultation with IIDA. Appointment of the FSAR
Director, and of the chief operation officer would be conditions of effec-
tiveness.
Formal Agreements Involved
12.       To give effect to the arrangements outlined above, the Financial
convention between Government and FONADER would specify:
(a) the conditions under which the Government, in conformity
,with the provisions of the credit agreement with IDA, dele-
gates responsibility to FONADER for the operation of RDF;
(b) the establishment by FONADER within its organization of
an independent FSAR unit with:



ANNEX 8
Page 6
(iî   a Directorate at headquarters with the responsibili-
ties outlined in para 4(a), headed by a director,
who would be nominated by FONADER's Director-General,
subject to approval by the Government and IDA, and
who would report directly to the Director General of
FONADER.
(ii)  a Field Management Unit to operate from new offices
to be built by FONADER with project funds at Maroua,
and %with the responsibilities indicated in para 4(b).
(c)  that FONADER would either engage or make available from its
existing management, staff to fill the following project
posts:
-    one FSAR director;
-    one accountant; and
-    one credit manager.
All such appointments would take place after consultation
with IDA; their costs would be reimbursed out of project
funds.
(d) that FONADIER would put its general services at the disposal
of FSAR. When requested by the FSAR Director with the
approval cf its Director General, FONADER would enter into
contracts on behalf of the RDF project;
(e)  that FONADER would ensure that the RDF project account
would be kept separately and outside the ordinary FONADER
accounting system;
(f) that Government authorises the procedure under which the
concerned Ministries create separate sections in their
budgets to cover their annual participation in the sub-
projects under their responsibility;
(g)  that Government's annual contribution to project financ-
ing, other than local personnel salaries which would be
as at present directly paid, would be transferred quarterly
to the project account;
(h) the arrangements under which Government would make an
initial payment of CFAF 50 million (US$ 00O,000) into
the project account, as a revolving f-und; this would be
a condition of credit effectiveness;



ANNEX 8
Page 7
(i)  that FONADER, acting on behalf of FSAR, would enter into
implementation/operational agreements with each of the
Min-jtries and organizations concerned, to define their
respective roles in the execution of the project program.
These implementation agreements would:
(i) outline the nature of the operations to be carried
out under the project;
(ii) specify the responsibilities of the service con-
cerned in the provision of staff, equipment and other
items;
(iii) specify that FSAR would have overall responsibility
for the RDF project coordination and supervision;
(iv) lay down the conditions and procedures for the opera-
tion of the special budget sections;
(v) specify that the auditors appointed under (k) below
would have the right of checking operations under
special sections of Ministerial budgets; and
(vi)  require that the extension and community development
agents of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the live-
stock credit agents to be provided by the Ministry
of Livestock be persons from the areas in which they
have to work and that they speak the local language;
this proviso is necessary in view of the nature of
their duties.
The duration of these implementation agreements would be the
project period with provision that copies of the annually
agreed work programs and related budgets of each service
and unit would be appended to and regarded as part of each
agreement.
(j)  that FSAR, through FONADER would submit annual reports,
and implementation programs and budgets as required by
Government and IDA; and
(k)  that auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to carry
out annually a separate audit of the project account.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
13.       The terms of both the Government decree and agreements between
FONADER and the agencies involved were reviewed at negotiations. It would
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that the Government decree had
been issued.
Costs
14.       Details of :project management and supporting services costs are
given at Table 1.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Cost of Project Supporting Services
(In End-1976 Termn)
% of
PYl      PY2       PY3       PY4       TOTAL           Foreign    For4zign
--------------------------------CFAF Million---------------------------
Vehicles and Equipment
Station Wagon (4 . CFAF 1.3 million)           5.2       -         -        -         5.2               4.2         80
4WD Long Base (2 . CFAF 2.8 million)           5.6       -         -        -         5.6               4.5         80
Office equipment                               2.3       -         -        -         2.3               1.8         80
Workshop, RES Maroua                           3.5       -         -         -        3.5               2.8         90
Air Conditioning (5 units . 0.38 million)   1.9          -         -         -        1.9               1.5         80
Radio Units (4 . CFAF 0.4 million)             1.6       -         -         -        1.6               1.3         80
Subtotal                                20.1       -         -         -        20.1             16.1         8D
Civil Works
FSAR office, Maroua (180 m2 . CFAF
78,000/m2)             14.0       -         -         -        14.0              7.0         50
RES workshop, Maroua (repairs to
existing buildings)        2.0      -         -         -         2.0              1.0         50
Subtotal                                 16.0      -         -         -        16.0              8.0         50
Operating Costs
Rent, Yaounde office                           1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2      4.8               -            0
Rent, local personnel houses Maroua            6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0     24.0               -            0
Vehicles (4 x 10,000 km . CFAF 50/km;
2 x 15,000 km . CFAF 75/km)         4.2       4.2       4.2       4.2     16.8              10.0         60
Offices (including utilities and
supplies)                            2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       8 0              3.2         40
Travel Allowances                              1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       4.0               -            0
Audit Fee (increrental)                        0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7      2.8               1.4         50
RES Workshop                                   2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       8.0               3.3         41
Subtotal                                 17.1     17.1    _17.1       17.1      68.4             17.9         26
Local Personnel
FSAR Director                                  4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0     16.0               -            0
FSAR Clerical (two secretaries, one
driver, one guard)             2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       8.0               -            0
Credit Manager, Maroua                         3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0      12.0               -            0
Accountant, Yaoundé                            1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8      7.2               -            0
Accountant, Maroua                             1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2      4.8               -            0
Maroua Clerical (3 secretaries;
2 drivers/messengers)        1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1       4.4               -            0
Workshop Maroua (1 chief mechanic,
4 assistant mechanics,
1 storeman, 1 fitter,
4 laborers, 2 drivers)       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       6.0               -            0
Subtotal                                 14.6     14.6      14.6      14.6      58.4               -            0
Expatriate Staff
Field Manager, Maroua                         15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0     60.0              60.0        (10
Maintenance Engineer, RES Maroua              12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0      48.0             48.0        (10
Credit Specialist, FSAR Maroua                14.0      14.0       -         -       28.0              28.0        100
Housing Allowance (5 expatriates)             15.0       7.5       4.5       4.5     31.5               3.8         12
Provision for Expatriate Reallocation/
Replacement         5.5       6.7       5.3       4.1     21.6              10.8         50
Subtotal                                 61.5     55.2      36.8      35.6    189.1             150.6          80
Base Cost Supporting Services                    129.3      86.9      68.5      67.3    352.0             192.6         55



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
FONADER                                                 Ministry of                                            Minirn  f                                                                                            Mixistry of
Director General                                           LiveStock                                             AgriclIture                                                                                        Mines and Energy
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (RDF)
FONDS SPECIAL D'ACTIONS RURALES (FSAR)
Yaounde
Director
Accountant
Supporting Staff
~~~~~~~~~~__ _,_.
FSAR FIELD MANAGEMENT - Maroua
Operations Officer                                                   _-                                                            - -.                                               . . . .   . .  . . . . . . .
Supporting Staff                 _               1T
.1                   l                                  il                                                     il
Liveastck          Agriculturul                   Spcietc d Expansion et
Extension           Extnnsin                      de Modenisetion de la                                     Ral Enginecring                                      Hydrogeological Service
Servic              Service                      Riziculture c Y.'goua                                      Service (R ES>                                               IHS)
(LES)               lAES>                              SEMRY
FSAR - CREDIT UNIT                              BOTTOMLAND UNIT                             RURAL ENGINEERING SERVICE (RES>                                   HYDROGEOLOGICAL
(CU) Marcua                                    (BU> Maroua                                     Four Northcrn Departments                                 SERVICE (HS)- Garoua
STATLL              MARKET                                                                  OPEN WELLS - PUMPS          SMALL DAMS - Maroua                        BOREHOLE UNITS
FATTENING           GARDENING                                                                                            _________
Weil E Brgdes >4            Consr-ction Engineer                       Manae,n
Credit Manager                                 Consultent                            Pump Ucit (Maro'a)          Super tisors 12>                           Drilling Tourna (2e
Credit Specialist                              Manager                               Meintenance Engineer        Teams (2)
Exten six n/Ce&diS                             Extension Agent                       Main Workshop (Maroua)
Agents (lES & AES>
.......n........lmpînnentatioe Agtearnennn                                                                                                                                                                                 World Bank   174460
_ . .           _   Coprdination and Supervision



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Job Description
Project:        Rural Development Fund
Country:        Cameroon
Job Title:     Chief Operation Officer (CO)
Place in the Organization Structure
The FSAR organization would consist of a two-tier structure with
a Directorate at Yaounde and a Field Management Unit (FMU) at Maroua. To-
gether, these units would constitute a separate entity within FONADER (see
organization chart). The CO would be the head of the FMU at Maroua; he
would be internationally recruited and appointed by the Director GeneraLl
of FONADER subject to the approval of the Administrative Council of FONADER
and of IDA.
Responsibilities and Duties:
Subject to the overall control of the FSAR Director, the CO would
be responsible for:
(i) the coordination of FMU's day-to-day operations;
(ii)  the organization and management of the Maroua office;
(iii)  the general supervision and monitoring of the activi-
ties of the services and units responsible for the
implementation of the RDF subprojects;
(iv)  ensuring that proper arrangements are made for the
in-service training of all senior Cameroonian staff;
(v) making suggestions to the FSAR Director regarding the
identification of other subprojects to be financed out
of the unidentified portion of project funds;
(vi)  submitting progress and other reports as required by
the FSAR Director; and



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
(vii) assisting the FSAR Director in the preparation of
annual RDF work programs and budgets.
Qualifications
1.        Academic.  Formal qualification in rural/civil engineering is
desirable but experience in the field management of development operations
is more important (see under Experience).
2.        Experience.  Extensive experience in hydrogeological development
schemes, particularly in the Sahelian and Sub-Sahelian zones of Africa is
required. Previous operational experience under similar borehole drilling
schemes, such as those financed by UNDP or the Commission for the Lake Chad
Basin would be an advantage. The FM should also have administrative experi-
ence in the management of development schemes in the field and be able to
coordinate the work of different project units.
3.        Other Requirements.  The CO should be fluent in French and be
able to ensure the adequate training of local staff. He would be engaged
for the whole project period (four years).



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Job Description
Project:       Rural Development Fund
Country:        Cameroon
Job Title:     Borehole Unit Manager
Place in the Organization Structure
The borehole unit manager will be in charge of the borehole teams
that will be involved in the implementation of the boreholes subproject,
which will be under the Hydrogeological Service (HS), Garoua Section, of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy. He would have a four-year contract covering the
whole period of operations.
Qualifications
The candidate, with a good knowledge of French, should have higher
engineering or technical certificate qualifications or equivalent, and shou:Ld
have at least five years field experience in operating borehole drilling rigs
in developing countries and in management and training teams to operate per-
cussion and rotary rigs.
Responsibilities
He would manage the borehole unit at Garoua and train the teams to
operate the equipment supplied for borehole drilling, and would help organize
and supervise the said equipment installation. He would have to keep borehole
logs and hydrogeological records. He would be responsible for carryirLg out
pumping tests on all boreholes installed and prepare progress reports for
presentation to the FSAR Field Manager. He would submit a quarterly report
to the HS manager (Garoua Section) on the operations of the unit and on the
performance of local personnel as potential borehole team supervisors,
and on steps taken to involve them in the management process.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FU'ND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MIANAGEMENT
Job Description
Project:       Rural Development Fund
Country:       Cameroon
Job Title:     Small Dams - Construction Engineer
Place in the Organization Structure
The construction of ten small dams in the Mandara mountains would
constitute one of the RDF subprojects which would be executed by a Dams Con-
struction Unit (DCU) within RES at Maroua. The Construction Engineer would
be the manager of DCU throughout the project period (four years).
Responsibilities
He would be responsible for the detailed design and the construc-
tion, under force account, of 10 small dams in the Mandara mountains, listed
in this report (Annex 6, Table 1) and identified in the Sogreah inventory of
potential dam sites. He would be in charge of two works supervisors and two
works teams from RES and three agents from CD.  He would direct the engage-
ment of unskilled labor needed for construction.
He wou]d be attached administratively to the RES, Maroua, and would
submit quarterly progress reports to the FSAR Field Manager.
Qualifications
The candidate, with a good knowled[ge of French, should have a
degree in Civil Engineering with specialization in the design and construc-
tion of dams and minor hydraulic structures. His background should include
at least five years experience in survey, design, and construction of this
type of work in developing countries. He should know how to organize and
work closely with topographical teams and to direct work carried out under
force account.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Job Description
Project:       Rural Development Fund
Country:       Cameroon
Job Title:      Consultant - Bottomland Development
Place in the Organization Structure
The Consultant would be engaged for a period of six months to carry
out specific work related to the Bottomland Development Subproject.
Responsibilities
He would be responsible for the design and construction of the
bottomlands development in the investment program.  He would carry out
detailed designs, draw up bidding and contract documents, analyze bids,
and advise on the selection of contractors.  He would submit regular prog-
ress reports on subproject implementation. He would be attached administra-
tively to SEHRY.
Qualifications
The candidate, with a good knowledge of French should have a degree
in Civil Engineering with specialization in small-scale irrigation works. His
background should include at least ten years experience in survey, design,
preparation of contract documents, and supervising the construction of minor
irrigation schemes in developing countries. He should know how to organize
and work closely with topographical teams, contractors and farmer groups.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 5
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AN) MANAGEMENT
Job Description
Project:       Rural Development Fund
Country:       Cameroon
Job Title:     Maintenance Engineer
Place in the Organization Structure
The Maintenance Engineer would operate from the existing garage and
workshop of the Rural Engineering Service at Maroua. He would be attached
administratively to the said service. He will be engaged for the whole proj-
ect period i.e. four years.
Responsibilities
He would be in charge of the RES garage and workshop at Maroua and
would be responsible for organizing the repair and maintenance of all equip-
ment and vehicles operated under the village water supply program, and for
training local staff in workshop management. He would have to exercise gen-
eral supervision of the open well brigades equipment which would be overhauled
in the workshops during the wet season. Tle would submit quarterly reports to
the head of RES, Maroua, on the performance of local personnel as potential
Maintenance Specialists and would involve them in the management process.
Qualifications
The candidate, with a good knowledge of French, should have under-
gone an apprenliceship as a mechanic and have higher technical certificate
qualifications, or equivalent. He should. have at least five years experience
as a workshop manager, preferably in developing countries.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 6
Page 1
-CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Job Description
Project :   Rural Development Fund
Country       Cameroon
Job Title     Agricultural Credit Specialist (CS)
Place in the Organizational Structure
The credit specialist will be part of the FSAR Credit Unit (CU) at
Maroua (see Project's Organization Chart). He would report to the CU Manager
and would assist in the implementation of the two credit subprojects --' stalL
fattening and market gardening.
Responsibilities and Duties
The CS would be responsible for assisting in the organization and
implementation of a credit scheme involving the provision of pumps and bore-
holes for irrigation of market gardening, and a credit scheme involvingr the
purchase of cattle and cattle feed for stall fattening. His appointment would
be for the first two years of these subprojects, during which he would:;
(i) design and implement appropriate loan assessment, disbursement
and recovery procedures;
(ii)  organize appropriate financial control and credit monitoring
systems;
(iii)  train and supervise five field credit agents who will prepare
applications for his approval, and report periodically on the
progress of each loan;
(iv) carry out field supervisions and suggest any eventual modi-
fication of procedures on the terms of individual loans; and
(v)  familiarize the Cameroonian Credit Manager, with all aspects
of the credit assessment, supervision and financial recording
systems.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 6
Page 2
Qualifications
i.   Academic.  Formal qualificat:ion in agriculture, agricultural
economics, or animal production studies is desirable but experience in
management of successful agricultural/livestock credit schemes is more
important.
2.   Experience.  Extensive experience in management of rural
credit is required. This should include planning and organizing rural
credit schemes in the framework of development projects or the operations
of specialized financial institutions, preferably in Africa; thorough con-
versance with credit analysis and accounting methods; experience with field
supervision of credit in small farmer communities; and proven managerial
skills including training of field staff.
3.   Other Reguirements.  Good wDrking knowledge of French,
including some drafting ability, is essential.



CAMEROON                                                ANE: 9
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT                                      Tablet 1
Summary of Project Costas /
(In December 1976 Terms)
PY1         PY2         PY3          PY4       TOTAL            LOCAL      FOREIGN
1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81
-----------------------------------CFAF Million--------------------_-_
BOTTOMLAND DEr-LOPMENT
Vehicles and Equipment                   1.4         1.8          0.7         0.6          4.5              1.3         3.2
Civil Works                              -          86.3          -           -          86.3             51.8         34.5
Operating Costs                          1.3         2.1          4.3         3.5        11.2               6.3         4.9
Local Personnel                          1.1         1.1          1.1         1.1          4.4              4.4         -
Expatriate Staff                         4.0         8.0          -           -          12.0               -          12.0
SUBTOTAL                           7.8         99.3         6.1         5.2        118.4             63.8        54.6
MARKET GARDEN ING
Vehicles and Equipment                   0.1         5.5          6.9         9.3         21.8              6.4        15.4
Operating Costa                          1.1         1.2          1.3         1.4          5.0             2.0          3.0
Local Personnel                          1.2         1.2          1.2         1.2          4.8              4.8         -
SUBTOTAL                           2.4          7.9         9.4        11.9         31.6             13.2        18.4
STALL FATTENING
Livestock and Equipment                  3.3         9.3         18.5        30.8        61.9             61.2          0,7
Operating Costs                          0.6         1.5          3.3         5.6        11.0               4.4         6.6
Local Personnel                          2.4         3.6          4.8         4.8        15.6             15.6          -
SUBTOTAL                           6.3        14.4         26.6        41.2         88.5             81.2       _7.3
UNIDENTIFIED                               -          33.0         33.0        34.0        100.0             50.0        50.0
SMALL DAMS
Vehicles and Equipment                  70.3         -            -           -           70.3             14.2        56.1
Civil Works                              4.5        28.5        24.0         24.0        81.0             29.9         51.1
Operating Costa                          3.9        13.1         13.1        13.1        43.2             19.4         23.8
Local Personnel                          4.1        26.8        26.8         26.9        84.6             84.6          -
Expatriate Staff                        14.0        14.0         14.0        14.0        56.0               -          56.0
Health Survey                           12.0         -                        -          12.0               2.4         9.6
SUBTOTAL                         108.8        82.4         77.9        78.0        347.1            150.5       196.6
OPEN WELLS
Vehicles and Equipment                 104.4        25.9         25.9        25.8       182.0             44.0        138.0
Operating Costs                          8.5        34.7        34.7         34.7       112.6             48.4         64.2
Local Personnel                         14.8        14.8        14.8         14.8        59.2             59.2          -
SUBTOTAL                         127.7        75.4        _75.4        75.3        353.8            151.6       202.2
PUMP INSTALLATION
Vehicles and Equipment                  15.5        31.1         30.7        26.8       104.1             23.7         80.4
Operating Costs                          1.9         3.8          7.2         7.7        20.6              8.7        11.9
Local Personnel                          0.6         1.2          2.4         2.4         6.6              6.6          -
SUBTOTAL                          18.0        36.1         40.3        36.9       131.3              39.0        92.3
BOREHOLES UNIT
Vehicles and Equipment                  88.4        20.3         18.7        18.0       145.4             24.8       120.6
Operating Costs                          3.3        21.2        20.0         19.3        63.8             27.4        36.4
Local Salaries                           -           2.4          2.3         2.3         7.0              7.0          -
Expatriate Staff                        14.0        14.0        14.0         14.0        56.0              -          56.0
SUBTOTAL                         105.7        57.9         55.0        53.6       272.2             59.2       213.0
PROJECT SUPPORTING SERVICES
Vehicles and Equipment                  20.1         -           -            -          20.1              4.0        16.1
Civil Works                             16.0         -           -            -          16.0              8.0         8.0
Operating Costs                         17.1        17.1         17.1        17.1        68-4             50-5        17.9
Local Personnel                         14.6        14.6         14.6        14-6        58.4             58-4          -
Expatriate Staff                        61.5        55.2        36.8         35.6       189.1             38.5       150.6
SUBTOTAL                         129.3        86.9         68.5        67-3       352-0            159-4       192.6
TOTAL BASE COST                          506.0       493.3        392.2       403.4    1.794.9 _Z47-                 1,fl,-
1/ Net of taxes



CANE}tOOB                                              ANNEX 9
RURAL DEVELOR(ENT PUND PROJECT                                     Table 2
Sutnary of PrOject Costs   l/
(In lfd-1S177 terma)
PYl         PY2         PY3         PY4       TOTAL            LOCAL      FOREIGN
1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81    -in ----------
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Vehicles and Equipment                  1.5         1.9         0.7         0.6          4.7             1.4          3.3
Civil Works                             -          90.2         -           -          90,2             54.0        36.2
Operating Costs                         1.3         2.2         4.5         3,6         11.6             6.5         5.1
Local Personiel                         1.1         1.1         1.1         i.1          4.4             4.4          -
Expatriate Staff                        4.1         8.3         -           _           12,4             -          12.4
SUBTOTAL                          8.0       103.7          6.3         5.3       123.3             66.3        57.0
MARKET GARDENING
Vehicles and Equipment                  0.1         5.7         7.2          9.6       22.6              6.8        15,8
Operating Costs                         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.5          5.1             2.0          3.1
Local Personnel                         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2          4.8             4,8          -
SUBTOTAL                           2,4         8,1         9,7        12,3        32,5             13,6        18,9
STALL FATTENING
Livestock and Equipment                 3.4         9.6        19.2        32.0         64.2            63,5         0.7
Operating Costs                         0.6         1.6         3.4         5,8        11,4              4,6         6.8
Local Personnel                         2.4         3.7         5.0         5.0         16,1            16,1          -
SUBTOTAL                          6.4        14.9        27.6         42.8        91.7             84.2         7.5
UNIDENTIFIED                              -          34.2        34.2        35.3        103,7            51,8         51.9
SMALL DAMS
Vehicles and Equipment                 72.9         -           -           -           72.9            14.7         58-2
Civil Works                             4.7        29.6        24.q        24.9         84.1            31.1        53-0
Operating Costs                         4.0        13.6        13.6        13.6         44.8            20.1        24.7
Local Personnel                         4.3        27.8        27.8        27.9         87.8            87-8          -
Expatriate Staff                       14.5        14.5        14.5        14.5         58.0             -           58.0
Health Survey                          12.4         -           -            -          12.4             2.5          9.9
SUBTOTAL                        112.8         85.5        80.8        80.9       360-0 01562                  203.8
OPEN WELLS
Vehicles and Eciuipment               108.3        26.9        26.9        26.8       188,9             45.7       143.2
Operating Costs                         8.8        36.0        36.0        36.0       116.8             50.2        66.6
Local Personnel                        15.3        15.3        15.3        15.3         61.2            61.2         -
SUBTOTAL                        132.4         78.2        78.2        78.1       366.9            157.1       209.8
PUMP INSTALLATION_
Vehicles and Equipment                 16.1        32.3        31.9         27,8       108,1            24.6         83.5
Operating Costs                         2.0         3,9         7.5          8.0        21.4             9.0         12.4
Local Personnel                         0.6         1.2         2.5          2.5         6.8             6.8          -
SUBTOTAL                          18.7        37.4        41,9        38,3       136.3             40.4        95.9
BOREHOLES UNIT
Vehicles and Eqtuipment                91.7        21.0         19.4        18.7       150.8            25,9        124,9
Operating Costs                         3.4        22.0        20.8        20.0         66.2            28.5         37.7
Local Personnel                         -           2.5         2.4          2.4         7,3              7,3        -
Expatriate Staff                       14.5        14.5        14.5         14.5        58.0              -          58 0
SUBTOTAL                        109.6         60.0        57.1        55.6       282.3             61,7       220.6
PROJECT SUPPORTING SERVICES
Vehicles and Equipment                 20.9         -            -           -          20.9              4,2        16.7
Civil Works                            16.7         -           -            -          16.7             8,0          8.7
Operating Costs                        17.7        17.7        17.7         17.7        70.8            51.8         19.0
Local Personnel                        15.1        15.1        15.1         15.1        60.4             60.4         -
Expatriate Staff                       63.8        57.3       _38.2         36.9       196.2            39.2        157.0
SUBTOTAL                         134.2        90.1       _71.0        69.7       365.0            163,6       2`1 .4
TOTAL BASE COST                         524.5       512.1        406.8       418.3    1,861.7             794.9    l_6
1/ Net of taxes



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs, Taxes and Foreign Expenditures
(In Mid-1977 Terms; CFAF Million)
% of
PYl       PY2        PY3        PY4                          % of      Foreign  Foreign
1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   TOTAL    Taxes    Taxes    Exchange Exchange
Bottomland Development                 8.5      114.3        7.1        6.0     135.9    12.6        9         61.5      45
Market Gardening                       2.7        9.0       10.8       13.8       36.3      3.8      10         21.0      58
Stall Fattening                        6.9       15.8      28.9       44.3       95.9      4.2       4           8.3       9
Unidentified                           -         40.2       40.2       41.5      121.9    18.2      15          61.0     50
Small Dams                           122.6       95.3       90.0       90.1     398.0    38.0        9        214.6      54
Open Wells                           148.1       87.9       87.9       87.8     411.7    44.8       il        233.5      57
Pumps Installation                    20.7       41.6       47.6       42.7      152.6    16.3      il        104.7       69
Boreholes Unit                       120.2       65.1       62.0       60.3     307.6    25.3        8        239.0      78
Project Supporting Services          141.9       93.6       74.5       73.2     383.2    18.2        5        214.6      56
Base Cost                      571.6      562.8      449.0      459.7   2,043.1   181.4         9      1,158.2      57
Physical Contingencies (10%)          57.2       56.2       44.9       46.0     204.3    18.1        9        115.8       57
Expected Price Increases (15%)        23.8       74.9      102.5     146.4      347.6    31.3        9        198.1      57
Total Project Cost             652.6      693.9      596.4      652.1   2,595.0   230.8         9      1,472.1      57
In US$ Million:                  2.7        2.8        2.4        2.7       10.6      0.9                  6.0
W D



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Financing Plan
(In Mid-1977 Terms)
PYI        PY2         PY3          PY4                                               _   _
1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81    TOTAL           IDA    Government  Beneficiaries
-----                      -----    CFAF Miilion-------------------------------------
Civil Works                   23.8       133.1        27.6        27.6        212.1      127.3      84.8          -
Vehicles and Equipment       349.4       107.1       115.9       124.9        697.3      592.7      90.7           13.9
Operating Costs               43.0       108.8       116.2       117.8        385.8      231.5    153.6-            0.7
Local Personnel               46.1        79.0        81.9        82.0        289.0       -        289.0           -
Expatriate Staff             109.3        94.6        67.2        65.9        337.0      337.0      -
Unidentified                  -           40.2        40.2        41.5        121.9       72.6      49.3           -
Base Cost                571.6      562.8        449.0       459.7     2,043.1   1,361.1    667.4             14.6
Unallocated                   81.0       131.1       147.4       192.4        551.9      353.9    193.0             5.0
Total Project Cost       652.6      693.9       596.4        652,1     2,595.0   1,715 0    860.4             19.6
Financed by:                                                                           ------------US$ '000-------------
- IDA                    550.0       480J0       345.0       340.0      1,715.0   7,000.0       -
- Government             101.9       211.1       245.5       301.9        860.4       -      3,520.0          -
- Beneficiaries            0.7         2.8         5,9        10.2         19.6       -                       80



ANNEX 9
CAMEROON                      Table 5
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
IDA - Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements               Undisbursed
IDA Fiscal Year                  At End of
and Quarter                    Quarter          Cummulative               _
------------------US$ Million----------------
FY 1978
First                         0.20             -0.20                6.80
Second                        0.30              0.50                6.50
Third                         0.30              0.80                5.20
Fourth                        0.40              1.20                5.80
FY 1979
First                         0.40              1.60                5.40
Second                        0.40              2.00                5.00
Third                         0.40              2.40                4.60
Fourth                        0.40              2.80                4.20
FY 1980
First                         0.45              3.25                3.80
Second                        0.45              3.70                3.35
Third                         0.45              4.15                2.90
Fourth                        0.45              4.60                2.45
FY 1981
First                         0.40              5.00               2.00
Second                        0.40              5.40               1.60
Third                         0.40              5.80                1.20
Fourth                        0.40              6.20               0.80
FY 1982
First                         0. 40             6. 60              0.40
Second                        0. 40             7. 00



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Beeficiaries' Contribution to Project Costs
(In Mid-1977 Terms)
PYl           PY2           PY3           PY4            TOTAL
----CFAF thousand-------------------
1. Market Gardening
Boreholes and Pump Units                  -            117           350            467             934
Open Wells                                -            125            125           125             375
Pump Maintenance                          -            120           190            280             590
Subtotal                             -            362           665           872            1,899
2. Stall Fattening
Cattle purchases                         633         1,899         3,797          6,329          12,658
Basic Contribution                  633         2,261         4,462         7,201           14,557
Physical Contingencies (10%)              63           226           446            720           1,455
Expected Price Increases (22%)            26           287           976          2,264           3,553
3.  Total Beneficiaries' Contribution        722         2,774          5,884        10,185          19,565
4.  Above, in US$                          2,950        119320        24,010         41,570           9,850
(DM
c\ f1



Table 7
CAMEFOON
RURAL DEVELOPMZhT FUN) PROWECT
Governant Cash Flow 1I
(CFAF Million)
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
AI. INLOWS
IDA Credit -                         294        392         441        392        196          -          -          -           -          -
Beneficiaries Contributions
Project cost 3/                       1          3          6         10         -          -           -          -           -          -
Incremental taxes 4/                 1          2           5          8         14         18          19         21         22          24
Credit repayment 5/
Interest                        -           1          3          6          10          1          1          -          -           -
Capital                         -           3         12         26          45          6          4           3               -
Cost Recovery 6/
Recurrent costs                     -            9         16         19         65          70         74         80          85         91
Renewal/Investment cost             -          39          28         32         51         51          51         51        _51          51
Subtotal                        2          57         70        101         185        146        149         155        158         166
Total Inflows                  296        449        511         493        381        146        149         155        158         166
B. OUTFLOWS
Project cost 7/  8/                  594         632        543        594          -          -          -           -          -          -
Recurrent costs  -                     -          -          -          -          65          70         74          80         85          91
Extension cost 9/                      -          -          -          -          13          14         15          16         17         18
IDA debt service 19/                    2          5          9         12         13          13         13          13         13       - 13
Total Outflows                 596        637        552         606         91         97        102         109        115         122
C.  ANNUAL SURPLUS (DEFICIT)             (300)      (188)      ( 41)      (113)       290          49         47          46         43          44
D.  CUMULATIVE (DEFICIT)                 (300)      (488)      (529)      (642)       (352)      (303)      (256)       (210)      (167)       (123)
E.  CUMULATIVE DEFICIT WITHOUT
COST RECOVERY                        (300)      (536)      (620)      (752)       (578)      (650)      (728)       (813)      (906)    (1,004)
1/ In current terms. Inflation factors: 7.5% 1977-79, 7% thereafter.
2/ Annex 9, Table 5.
3/ Annex 9, Table 6
4/ Beneficiaries are assumed to spend 50% of their incremental disposable income, net of cost recovery and equipment replacement,
where applicable, in the modern sector where the average tax rate is 20%.
5/ To PONMDER.
6/ Annex 10, Table 1.
7/ Annex 9, Table 3, net of taxes.
8/ Operating costs of well brigades, pump and boreholes unit; 1% of small dams
investment costs.
9/ Stall fattening and market gardening.
10/ In 1988, the outstanding principal would be CFAI 1,642 million, and repayment of principal and aervice charge iould be CFAF
28 million.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
COST RECOVERY
1.        To ensure the active involvement of beneficiary communities in
the village water supply and bottomland development program, and thereby
the ongoing maintenance of costly infrastructural capital, Government has
agreed to implement a pilot cost recovery scheme along the lines specified
below. The general principle is that costs for both investment and main-
tenance should be recovered from the beneficiaIy and the local Communities
involved.
Bottomland Development
2.        During construction of the water works, participating farmers
would provide about 40,000 mandays of voluntary labor for canal excavation
and bund preparation (Annex 3).  In addition to this contribution, farmers
would be subject to the provision of the cahier des charge applicable under
the existing by SEMRY Rice Project (Credit 420--CM). Given the level of these
costs (CFAF 2.8 million, or US$11,000), each cultivated hectare would be
subject to an annua.l charge, in constant 1977 prices, of about CFAF 10,000
(US$40), or less than 25% of incremental farm family cash income (Table 1).
Participating farmers would be allocated land proportionately to the work they
contribute to canal excavation and bund preparation. Moreover, they would be
responsible for mai;ntaining bunds and secondary canals with their own labor
during and after thes project. Collection and application of farmers' contri-
butions will be subject to the same procedures as under the SEMRY Project.
Small Dams
3.        This component (Annex 6) accounts for 20% of total base costs and
would benefit about 7,400 families (Sares), or 37,000 people, who can be
ranked amongst the poorest in Cameroon:  estimated net farm family income
in the subproject area is as low CFAF 37,000 (US$150), or CFAF 7,400 (US$30)
per capita. A poll tax is applied and collected by local authorities (vil-
lage chiefs) and then passed on to subdepartments (commune) and departments
(prefecture). So far, in the subdepartment budget there is no allocation of
proceeds for villages water supplies. The actual tax level is high in propor-
tion to rural incomess: a family with three tax:paying adults is required to
pay on average aboul' CFAF 1,200(US$5.0) per annum, only some 4% of net income,
but more than 10% oE cash income. Under these conditions, the pilot cost re-
covery scheme would aim at covering the monetary element of maintenance costs
of the small dams estimated at about CFAF 1.3 million (US$5,200) through ade-
quate appropriations for this purpose, in the local communities' budget. Such



ANN'EX 1 0
,Sage 2
maintenance would mainly involve periodic    a,t the oi of thhed u-  season-
cleaning of, and weed elimination from the reservoi!' this Tob wou,d be
carried out by the local population, who would be trained by RES, asslsted by
the CD agents assigned to the subproject.  Repairs to the mnascr:ry st_ucture
would be carried out by RES.
Village Wells, Pumps and Boreholes
4.        The wells, pumps, and boreholes components (An,nex 7, account for
43% of total base costs and would benef-t about 570,0`00 rural inhabitants
in the project area.  The pilot cost recoverv schem-e would be based on the
following:
(i)  beneficiaries in the wells, pumps ar;d boreholes corpo-
nents would contribute: (a) for recovery of inveostmenc
costs, from PY 2 to PY 4 the eqoivalent of the whc,le of
pump investment cost, and (b) afterwards the equivalent
of maintenance costs for village wells, puuips and bore-
holes; these contributions would amount to about CFAF 40
million (US$160,000) per annumc, or an average of about
CFAF 350 (US$1.40) per rural famlv,
(ii)  RES would establish, as part of its annual work program
and budget, details of expected locatiorn of capped wells
to be equipped with pumps, and the estimated cost by
subdepartment of pump purchase, installation, an,  maLn-
tenance;
(iii) these estimates would be made known in advance of local
budget preparation to each authority (prefect) are r.
provincial Government at Garoua.  Each aLithority -. cuId
make the corresponding allocations in îts îTvestmen- a.nd
operating budgets, and on successful completion ef the
work program and presentation of charges would reimbuirse
the Government executing agency, RES; and
(iv)  each subdepartment (commune or sousprefecture) and denart-
ment (prefecture) would have the chDice, based on their
existing priorities, of selecting an appropriate source
of revenue, such as: (a) deferring or curtailing other
budgeted expenditure to accommodate the village water
supply program, or (b) appropriating part of tax revenues,
collected through the poll tax or the cattle tax.
5.        The actual impact of the pilot schei e on each authcrit  s finances
and eventually on the tax rates will vary considerably and depenrd on unfore-
seeable factors such as waterpoint location. As an indication, however, in
PY4 each of the present 11 budgetary units would receive on average 12 pumps,
costing about CFAF 2.3 million (US$9,000) in investment, and about CFAF 300,000
(US$1,200) on maintenance for the whole pump inventory. For a typical commune



ANNEX 10
Page 3
with 40,000 taxpayers and a poll-tax revenue of CFAF 40 million, the proposed
cost recovery scheme would cause the Community to raise annually about CFAF
60 per taxpayer in addition to existing taxes or to appropriate 6% of the said
tax for the purpose of the said investment.
Assurances
6.        By March 31, 1978, Government would submit to IDA specific measures
to be taken to implement the cost recovery scheme; it is expected this plan of
action would specify in particular the alLocation of cost recovered directly
from the participants and these recovered through the local community budgets.
By June 30, 1980, Government and IDA would review progress in the pilot cost
recovery scheme and discuss possible improvements.



A1INEX 10
Table 1
CAXMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Cost Recovery
PYl     PY2      PY3      PY4     PY'5 Onwards
CFAF Million                          
1. Bottomland Development
Maintenance costs 1/                     -       -        3.2      3.5     3.7
Investment costs 2/                      -       -        -        2.8     2.8
2.  Small Dams
Maintenance costs 1/                     -       -        0.7      1.2     1.3
Investment costs 3/                          -        -       -            -
3.  Village Wells, Pumps and Boreholes
Investment costs 4/                      -      38.8    28.1    29.0    48.6
Operation and Maintenance 1/ 5/          -       8.8    12.2    13.8    59.6
4.  Total Cost Recovery                      -      47.6    44.2    50.3   116.0
1/ Including 10% physical contingencies in current terms.
2/ To be determined under the provisions of the cahier des charges before
April 30, 1978, assumption retained: CFAF 4 per kilo of paddy.
(107 of producer price).
3/  To be determined by local communities.
4/  PY2 to PY4, full pump investment cost; afterwards, 100% replacement costs
for village wells, pumps and boreholes.
5/ Operating cost of well brigades, pump and boreholes unit as from PY5 pllus
maintenance cost estimated at 5% of investment cost.



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                                                Annex
1977                            1978                                      1979                                       1990                            i  i
MAIN ACTIVITIÉS               REsPONSI.1l-JTv                        lvi                                       12 p07 -04
J |A |s|o |N  |D  J | F|1 LA U |J  J |A            O |     O   N|D|J  | F |M  ArnM  J  J| A |S|o |N  |7 -   O  |F|   A U|M|J  J |A [SOJ°|NS|D|J|E|M|Al 
8Btoalnland Deelrooipmnt                                 TSAi79\        >    S I         \\\ AiNS'«                                  <<i S\ tAINS  <QQQj                       Q?>.\\ 9AINS <<<J              `I
L-Xd p.ep-rati,', SEMRY:"n_
C  n   «   Fa5 MrRY   ,X\ux                         xu\\X\  \Xu\                 _   10û ha  suxu~ ~~~XX  X\Xu,             2EX            XXX      \<  X               2          fi X\X    X
Piooadltt7iaiîoioiiddnarouei         UCU;    ula          *<rmers                          <<<<\    \\X  \X             j           \    \     \ <<<<  <<<    <<XX              <X\        XXXX                           <<<
CrXll mp eme wtion CU,<X                                        f            <X       rmers                             X\XX\ 1ûûx                              <<XX    «XX                                X <<XXX \t   t\ 
|   FCOfStîUotîon                  IDCUoîk  cooriocro        1«                              ««<\3\\\\ ««<"-                         «««\X4 «XXX                    3«X                    <<XXX\\\;4                      \\
| - Cost  recoverV               |L0241eUthOritY        f\\\\\f             { -           X \X1 «      XX0                         <   X 0\       X    X                      XX   \  X   «XX|
|VlondoeWlsPaîat    ndioîî   le    |ESY   lani             XXXX<                           «<X       <XX 3<X 1XXX X1X    «XX                                                                                               XXXXXX I1\7
Aie Pooiiivaitofdqimetz            |FSAR,EiS              «\X X               i            XX+X«  XXXXX                                  XX\X    «<XXX0l                           XXXX\k\\\ |XXXXX
|CWt1î --ory                         SEMRY               X«XX                            «XXX   «XXX                              X                                           XXXX
|    i Cot  ---                        S Cum                                                                               1$2XX     IXXXXX    X<X2                             X<XXXX I l  XX137                         jXX
| Dthe Projtt Artivitis   |                 [«<XX'               |XX SusN XuXXX<                            1           XX'    XXXXXX                  |XXX «``XXX                                IXXX
| Me  Ooorks,  arou              |ES, MaR...              XX«                                  XXX                                            X XX0                           20 |                                          XX20
Booaedîillina                  iS, 3-o-              «    <XX<XXX                                                                X X XXX   1                               XXX XXX3
| Propot4ls for unidentif;sd   | FSAR       [l\\\\\              |           | \           \ l                          \\\\'N   ll'                   |2\\][\                        X|                       0Xx
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~É  P-8lt Surfiy                                                                          5 |\\     \ \ \ \   | t \\         \\\\            |t\\ml                                                   \ \
P-P                                                                                                                     \\'N\1~~~~~~~«X   «XX 1  «X   « X   25  ««   « X 20                          «
A-rn .tioaaltioo                   SE2og  nt             «XX0X «X                                                                     X X    < Xh<X    X«X X«
CU; F--«< X «X X«XX «XX                                                                                                                 <XX «XX« X
C,eood iot                         CLari)r                 1«            0«                    « ««                     20a «00                                    2Oh               «      <00ZEh
S-dripy - d   n d. gOD U;   Carme ,   E                      « <«gX                                  X X X«<                              X     <X X                          X«X               X 
P, ... --                                      l'XX                          <X      «X                               «XX «XX                                   X            XX                            « X
Staîl  atren ng                                   «< X                            «< X X    «XXFSAXR «RXES< X                                                                 X   «X X
A.-~~~~~ r-d.«< X                                                            XXX «XX6«Xk«<XX3«X                                                                             «XXk«X
NXXI
DCU, RES  ~              ~XXXXXXXX'<                                                          <'<\                             X          «< XX
I Sin aîlD a m s                                  k '. « . . 1                        «  «  «H««                                 « < ,«.. .«                                        «  «
B.,.h.I~ d,illi.g                         \«XXX                                                                                                    12X«X X«X X «X X« XX «X                                   <X
P.-P~ m.t.II ~            05RES Pust.p J,no.    1<X2                                                                                                                                                    137X«< X« X   « <
C.t --r, ~     ~         ~        ~        «X                                                                          «X         XX                              <XX <XX                                    <X
2 h rPro o u m e n   AS                 R . S  S            X                                        «_                                 < X X     X X                            < X   X    « XX-<                              X
f    ~~~~q.ip~~-                                                         «  XX.                           «   XX    «XXd<X                                 X     XX ARX
AocesroadaDCU                                      «<                            ««,   ««« .9Ak                             «XXX\\  «<XM«X                                           X
Fi,w  Outli- S-d«XX                                                        «XX   «XDF P,X    XXX                                                                  <XXX «XX
H..Ith S~~~~~~~~~~mey                                                    X ««        X                        «XX «X X                                  «XX \\X                                     «XX
Damconarroooon  0513  « « N         « <  «    «  «  «                          « «  <    « «  <                          «  «  «     « «  <~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~\   \l
\XX\ -XXX   «<X                                                             X X         \X «X X                                    X X                            <
Teohnmoai   inspeoriOn  13513,550  « < «  « « <   « «  «                           «  «    « «  <                              «  «    « «  <~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~W. Id     B .k- 733



ANNEX 12
Page 1
CAMIEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Audit Terms of Reference
Reasons for the Bank Group's Auditing Requirements
In any business or other enterprise the prompt and regular prepara-
tion of accurate accounts is an important means of ensuring that the enter-
prise is carrying out adequately the tasks assigned to it. Accounts are
essential not only for the enterprise itself, but also for lenders, who
need reliable information about the financial condition of the organization
they are helping to finance. As a lender, the Bank Group, in appraising
a project, has to be satisfied that the financial data presented are accurate
and complete, and that, during the implementation of the project, the bcrrower
will have adequate financial controls and follow proper accounting principles.
These are the reasons why the services of auditors are required for IDA
projects.
Definition of Audit
An audit is an authorized examination of the accounts and accounting
system of an organization, whose purpose is to enable the auditors to report
on the financial statements of the organization and to express an opinion
on their fairness, consistency and conformity with accepted accounting
principles.
(a) to make a critical review of the system of book-
keeping, accounting and internal control;
(b) to make such tests and enquiries as the auditors
consider necessary to form an opinion as to the
reliability of the records as a basis for the
preparation of accounts;
(c) to compare the financial statements with the under-
lying records in order to see whether they are in
accordance with them;
(d) to make a critical review of the financial statements
and to report whether, in the opinion of the auditors,
the accounts are pres(. ted and the items are described
in such a way that they show not only a true but also
a fair view and give in the prescribed manner the
information required by law.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Selent4            oîl Wrintment of Auditors
irhe 'bnrroiwer is responsible for the selection and appointment of
aiid2       The Bank GCroup requires, however, that the person or firm appointed
shoul  hv  experience and qualifications acceptable both to the Bank Group
and to the borroaer.
7he criteria employed by the Bank Group is judging the accept-
ability of audltors are that the auditors shou:Ld be professionally qualified
and ln particular:
(a) be împartial and independent of the c ontrol of the entity
suib ect to audit and of the person appointing them:  in
particular-, the auditors should not, during the period
covered by the audit, be employed by, or serve as director
for, or have any financial or close business relationship
with the entity9 except as independetnt professional
advisers;
(bl) be well-established and reputable, using procedures and
nethods il conformity with internationally recognized
and geaierailly accepted auditing practice and employing
adequate staff with professional qualifications and
suitable experience by international standards; and
ic)  have experience of auditing the accounts of entities
comparable in nature, size and complexity to the entity
whose audit they are to undertake.
Before project auditors are appointed, therefore, the borrower should arrange
that the Barik Group be furnished with sufficient information about the auditors
to enable it to satisfy itself on. the above matters.  This information would
normally include the name of the firm (or Government department of agency) the
names and qualifications of the principals, the approximate number of profes-
saional staff employed and some of the main audits carried out.
Professional and Government Auditors
Th7e  bhrCe betieen professional and Government auditors will normal-
ly depend or. the rnature of the project and who is executing it.  A non-revenue
earning project belig carried out by a Government department, following
Goverrnment aCcountirg and budgetirg procedures, would normally be audited
by the Goverrnment auditor. On the other and, a revenue earning project
executed by a coiopazny or corporation (whether wholly Government-owned or
not), and using comn7ercîal accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally
be audited by a professional firm. In some cases, the nature of the project
calls for a joint audit by the Goverament auditor in collaboration with a
professionai filrm.



ANNEX 7L2
Page 3
To encourage the growth of domestic firms of auditors, the Bank,
wherever possible, agrees to the appointment of a local firm, either a:Lone
or in conjunction with an international firm.
Audit Procedures
The procedures employed by the auditor should always be designed
to enable him to arrive at an opinion on the fairness of the financial state-
ments which are the subject of his report.
The extent of the auditor's test of the accounting records is
dependent on the system of accounts and internal check and control maintained
by the company.
For this purpose, the auditor should examine:
(a)  the organization and procedures for taking financial
decisions and authorizing expenditures;
(b) the design, management and operation of the accounting
sytem;
(c) the efficiency of the system of internal control and
of internal audit;
(d) the adequacy and competence of accounts staff;
(e) the effectiveness of related systems and procedures,
such as inventory control, or data processing.
In the light of this examination of systems and procedures, the
auditor should test the f inancial transactions of the organization, in con-
junction with such evidence, documentary or otherwise, as may be necessary
to enable him to be satisfied as to the authenticity and correctness af the
transactions, their complete and proper record in the books of account, and
their effect on the financial results. The evidence referred to above will.
include: documents such as checks, invoices, contracts, minutes of meetings,
bank statements and confirmations by third parties of amounts payable or
receivable; and information obLained by the auditor from enquiry, observation
and physical inspection.
By means of similar tests, the auuitor should satisfy himself as
to the existence and basis of valuation of assets and liabilities, such as:
(a) land, building, machine-y and equipment, including
the provision for depreciation;
(b)  inventories, including provision for obsolescence,
spoilage or losses;



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(c) receivables, including provisions for bad and doubtful
debts;
(d) cash and bank balances;
(e) amounts due to third parties (long and short-term loans
and suppliers' accounts payable).
In addition, the auditors' examination should cover such items as capital
commitments, contingent liabilities and events occuring after the balance
sheet date (for example, material changes in the value ocf commodity in-
ventories).
Audit Report
The auditor should submit both short-form and long-form reports.
These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
(or equivalent) and not to any member of the maanagement.
The following is an example of short-form report:
'We have examined the balance sheet of           __          as of
_  ,9 19 _, and the profit and loss account and
related statements of the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records, verification of assets and liabilities,
and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements and
appended notes present fairly the financial position_
at           _ 7 19  , and the results of its
operations for the year then ended, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles, applied on a basis
consistent in all material respects with 1that of the previous
year."
When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, or when an
opinion is disclaimed, the opinion paragraph cif a short-form report should
be modified in such a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification
or disclaimer. It should refer specifically to the subject of the qualifi-
cation and of the effect on the financial position and results of operations,
if reasonably determinable.
The report: should include comments, if any, deeemed appropriate
by the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in



ANNEX 12
Page 5
the organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for
improving accounting procedures.
The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report and
should give appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and com-
ments) of items in the various audited financial statements. The audited
financial statements would normally include:
(a) balance sheet;
(b) profit and loss account;
(c) profit and loss (income and expenditure) statement of
each major unit contributing a material part, say more
than 20% of revenue or incurring more than say, 20%
of costs, or such other criteria as the auditor shall
determine;
(d)  statement of sources and applications of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding year.
Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would cover
for example:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous
years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d) financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h)  efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the ba:Lance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position.
The borrower should arrange for copies of the short- and long-form reports
to be transmitted to IDA together with the audited accounts.






ANNEX 13
Page 1
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
1.        FSAR would review and transmit to Government and IDA half-yearly
reports of performance, measured against appraisal estimates. Indicative
reporting requirements are proposed in the attached tables and would be
finalized with FSAR and other project executing services and units dur:ing the
first IDA supervision mission. For each item and each project year, the
tables provide for the actual performance in the year to date (A), the
estimate made at appraisal (E), duly inflated, and for (A) as a percentage
of (E). The inflation factors, applied to base costs plus physical con-
tingencies, are:
Civil Works        All Others
1977/78                         1.0450              1.0375
1978/79                         1.1391              1.1153
1979/80                         1,2416              1.1989
1980/81                         1.3468              1.2858
2.        FSAR would in addition, prepare half-yearly reports on physical
progress, expenditures, and status of the credit subprojects (See Annex 4,
Appendix 1) for submission to IDA and Government. The format of these reports
would be prepared and discussed with FSAR during the first supervision, mission.






CAMEROllN
RIJRAL DEVE1.OPMENT FUND PROJEI
Reportn_Re uirements A/
Ac_,_197i7  --X}---________  ____==__                     ___    =rlc   er
______    977/19781f817                                                              1979/80                     __          901
Ac-Ïtua       Apala         A:E         Actuel       Appa, al      ME          Actual       Appraisal    AME          Actual        Appr-aeaml    AME
_ OMPONENT             PerfocraDceC A stiate(E        7        P oerformaoeA   stiale .)    Y          efo-nc,bl Eistl          .E   7        Perfo    ce    -# Etiuate(ED   7_
A,  BOTTDOIAND DEVELOPEnL 
Total Coaand Area (ha)                              300                                      300                                    300                                    303
Net Cultivated Arean (ha)                             _                                      100                                    275                                    11.
No. of Participating Farmers                          -                                      100                                    275,77.
cOSTS:  (CFAF Million)
Vehicles and Equipment                                1.7                                      3.3                                    ..9
Civil Works                                           -                                     113.0
Operating Costs                                       1.5                                      2,7                                    5.9
Expatriate Staff                                      4.7                                     10.2
Local Parsonoml                                       i.8                                      2.9                                    2.1                                    1.6
Cost Recovery From Farmer                             --                                                                              3.2                                    3.5
B. MAET GARDENING
Loan Applications                                  Not estisated                         Not Estimated                           Net Estimated                           Not Estimated
Logns Approved                                                                                15                                     25                                     20.
Boreholes Drillad                                                                              5                                     15                                     20
Pumps Installed                                                                               15                                     25                                     20
COSTS: (CFAF Million)
Vehicles and Equipment                                0.1                                      7.0                                     9.5                                  13.6
operating Costs                                        1.3                                     1.5                                     1.7                                   2.1
Local Persomnel                                       1.4                                      1.5                                     1.6                                    1.7
Repaymett:1
Principal                                                                                                                          1.6                                   4.3
Interest                                                                                   0.6                                    1.2                                    2.4
Other Beneficiaries' Contribution                      -                                       0.4                                     0.9                                    1.2
C. STALL FATTENIFl
Loan Applications                                  Not Estimated                          Not Estimated                          Not Estimated                           Not Estimated-
Loans Approved                                      100                                      300                                     600                                  1,000
Cattle Purchased  (head)                            100                                      300                                     600                                  1.000
COSTS; (CFAi7 Million)
Equipment and Livestock                                3.9                                    11.8                                    25.3                                    45.2
Local personnel                                        2.7                                     4.5                                     6.6                                     7.0
Operating Coests                                       0.7                                     2.0                                     4.5                                     8.2
Repaymnt:
Principal                                         -                                        3.3                                     9.8                                    19.6
Interest                                          _                                         , 6                                    1.9                                     3:8
Other BaMficiaries' Contritution                       0.7                                     2.3                                     5.0                                     8.9
D. UNIDENTIFIED
COSTS (stteidttd)                                     _                                       42.0                                    45.1                                    50.0
(Details after appraisal)
E.  SMALL DAMS                                                                                              .1
Si.tes Under ConstDction                                                                       3                                       3                                       4
Sites Completed                                                                                                                        3                                       6
Total WIorkforce (No.of man-Ays)                       -                                  29,000                                  29,000                                  39,000          a
of which: Vnakilled                                    _13000                                                                     13,000                                  17,000
C0STS:  (CFAF Million)                                                                      r01 07
Equipment and Vehiclel                                67.1                                                                                                                      -
Civil Workas                                           5.4                                    35.7                                    32.5                                     35.3
Operating Costs                                        6.6                                     24.0                                    25.8                                    27.7
Local Perso@el                                         5,0                                    34'4                                     36.9                                    89.7
Expatriate Staff                                      16.5                                     17.8                                    19.1                                    20.5
Isalth &Sruwy                                         14.2



CAMERoON
RURAL DEVElOPMENT FMND PROJECT
Reporting Requirements 1/
Project Years
1977/1978                              1978/1979                              1979/80                                1980/81
Actual      Appraisal      A:E        Actual       Appraisal      A:E        Actual       Appraisal       A:E       Actual        Appraisal      A:E
COG03NEmT                 Performance(A) Estimate(E) 7L           Performance(A) Eetim4te(E)     7/e Performance(A)  atimate(F.          7,     Performance<A) getimte(E         7.
F. OPEN WELLS
Number Rehabilitated                                 80                                    166                                     165                                    165
Number Capped                                         9                                     17                                      17                                     17
Seasonal Labourers (No)                              33                                     66                                     132                                    132
COSTS: (CFAF Million)
Eauipment end Veh±cles                              123,6                                   33.0                                    35.5                                   37.9
operating Costa                                      10.0                                    44,2                                   47,5                                   51.0
Local Personnel                                      17.5                                    18,8                                   20.2                                   21.6
G.  P)MP INSTALLATION
Pump Installed (No)                                  59                                     152                                    142                                     137
Pump Serviced (No)                                   59                                     211                                    353                                    490
COSTS: (CFAF Million)
Vehicles and Equipment                               18.4                                    39,6                                   42.0                                    39.3
Operating Costs                                       2.3                                     4.8                                    9.9                                   l1.3
Local Personnel                                       0.7                                     1.5                                    3.3                                     3.5
Cost Recovery                                         -                                      4J.4                                   33,3                                    37.8
H. BOREU0LES UNIT
Total Drilled                                     Not Estimated                        Not Estimated                           Not Estimated                            Not Estimated
Production Boreholes Delivered                       50                                     135                                    125                                     120
COSTS: (CrAF Million)
Vehicles and Equipment                               104.7                                   25.8                                   25,6                                    26.4
Operating Costs                                       3.9                                    27.0                                   27.4                                    28.3
Local Personnel                                       -                                       3.1                                    3.2                                      3.4
Expatriate Staff                                                                             15,2                                    16.4
I.  SUPPORTING SERVICES
COSTS: (CFAP Million)
Vehicles and Equipment                                23,9
Civil Worke                                           19.2
Operating Costa                                       11.8                                   12.6                                    13.6                                   14.6
Local Personnel                                       14.0                                   15.1                                   li.t                                     17.4
Expatriate Staff                                      72.8                                   70.3                                    50.4                                    52.2
TOTAL COSTS (Rounded) - (CFAF Million)               557.0                                  624.0                                   528.0                                   565.0
1/ Cost estimates are net of taxes and duties.
D >



IBRD 12617
r                                                                                                     --            [0rm          N              CaCH A D  SUDANA
RURAL ~ECAMEROON                                                                                                                             C -  - N   CENTRAL
F\ML                RURAL V LL%æErIVIE PMakari    ' 1                        \                                                       iEMPIRE
Mok(iri                                    ~~~~~~~~~~CAMEROON\
FUND  PROJECT                                                                                              EQUATORIAL <  _ j  t
PROJECT  AREA                           (Fotokol                  _.  ÇONGO jz A  R E
aItam,                                            s          i
Project Area Boundary                                                                                                                             J N'amena  -  * n  JO
Pro1ect Management Unit                                                                                                      n \ *i rw oret   O-yepan e bi' the
Market Gardenîng (10 mile radius)                                 1 (    Kousseri                                                f afftes
Bottomland Development
Small Dams(10)                                                                                 0         30 >                9
Stall Fattening                                                                                          30        bO        90        120
Paved Roads                                                                                    KILOMETERS
O     s    20        40        60          8o
Grave1 Roads
Earth Roads                                                                                    MILES
r Marsh,                                                                                       - )> 
-~  Rîvers                       To Bama                       i
Chief Town in Deportment                                       NAIONAL
Department Boundaries                                            PARK
International Boundaries             /                                       - '
NSj //  XMora   /   .}   Nii'    C  H       A        D
Bogo
MokoloV                     
m    1  d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~FBUAY17
I /        )        X   ~~~~~~~~~/Ya~~go nc  ogor
/   i                <~~~~~~~PtKao~~~cile         °       
f ~~~TO ,ARe)Uh                                                       To Fionga 
FEBRUARY 1977



