Document of
The World Bank
FILE         C O P Y             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2052-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
June 20, 1977
ITis document has a restricted distirbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT               -     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                        =     CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000                  =     US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000              =     US$4,082
1/   Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CAMDEV    -    Cameroon Development Corporation
FONADER   -    Fonds National de Developpement Rural
FSAR      -    Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales
RDF       -    Rural Development Fund
RMWA      -    Regional Mission in Western Africa (IDA)
SAFACAM   -    Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole-Cameroun
SEMRY     -    Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la
Riziculture de Yagoua
SOCAPALM  -    Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMtMARY
Borrower:                    United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:                      US$7.0 million equivalent
Terms:                       Standard
Project Description:         The proposed project would help establish a
structure for channeling and monitoring the
effective use of funds for small-scale and repeat-
able rural development projects geared to improv-
ing productive activities as well as infrastruc-
ture. Project activities would concentrate on
the four Northern Province Departments of Diamare,
Margui-Wandala, Mayo-Danay, and Logone et Chari.
The project would be implemented over a four-year
period and consist of:
a)  improving about 300 ha of bottomland near
Moulvouday for rice cultivation;
b)  developing irrigated market gardening
(onions and vegetables) in a 250-ha area
near Maroua by providing loans and technical
assistance to about 60 subsistence farmers;
c)  developing commercial stall fattening of
steers by providing credit facilities and
technical assistance to about 2,000 families
in the Mandara mountains area;
d)  constructing 10 small dams in the Mandara
mountains for human and animal water supply;
e)  increasing and improving village water supply
on the Diamare Plain by: (i) rehabilitating
about 600 existing open wells, and capping
60 of them; (ii) drilling about 430 bore-
holes; and (iii) equipping about 490 water
points with hand- or pedal-operated pumps;
f)  providing funds for as-yet-unidentified sub-
projects; and
g)  providing for technical assistance, on-the-
job training of local personnel, project
monitoring, carrying out a survey of water-
borne diseases in the project area, prepara-
tion of further sub-projects and a follow-
up RDF project, and supporting services.
r This document has a rtricted distriliution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(In MSid-1977 Terms)
Percentage of
Foreign      Total
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Base Cost
------US$ Thousand------
Bottomland Development          303.0    251.0     554.0     45          7.0
Market Gardening                 63.0     85.0     148.0     58          1.8
Stall Fattening                 357.0     34.0     391.0      9          4.9
Small Dams                      748.0    876.0   1,624.0     54         20.4
Open Wells                      730.0    950.0   1,680.0     57         20.9
Pumps Installation              192.0    431.0     623.0     69          7.7
Boreholes Unit                  280.0    976.0   1,256.0     78         13.9
Unidentified                    249.0    249.0     498.0     50          6.2
Project Supporting Services     688.0    878.0   1,566.0     56         17.2
Total Base Cost          3,610.0  4,730.0   8,340.0     57        100.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)    370.0    470.0     840.0     57
Expected Price Increases (15%)  610.0    800.0   1,420.0     57
Total Project Cost       4,600.0  6,000.0  10,600.0     57
Of which Taxes             940.0     -        940.0
TOTAL NET OF TAXES       3,660.0  6,000.0   9,660.0
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ 000)
IDA     Government     Beneficiaries     Total
Civil Works                    515        345              -             860
Vehicles and
Equipment                   2,420        370             60           2,850
Operating Costs                945        625              5           1,575
Local Personnel                -        1,180              -           1,180
Expatriate Staff             1,380        -                -           1,380
Unidentified                   290        210              -             500
Base Costs              5,550      2,730             65           8,345
Unallocated                  1,450        790             15           2,255
Total (including,taxes) 7,000      3,520             80          10,600
Total (excluding taxes) 7,000      2,580             80           9,660
Percentage of
Total Project Cost        66         33              1             100
Percentage of Total
Project Cost Net of Taxes 72         27              1             100



Estimated Disbursement
of IDA Credit
Amount in US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year               1978      1979       1980      1981      1982
Annual                      1.20      1.60       1.80      1.60      0.80
Cumulative                  1.20      2.80       4.60      6.20      7.0
Expatriate Staff
and Consulting Services     Total expatriate staff and consulting services
would amount to about 225 man-months at a total
cost of US$1.4 million (excluding contingencies)
and an average cost of US$5,900 per man-month (in-
cluding benefits and allowances) for expatriate
staff, and US$8,300 per man-month (including
travel expenses) for short-term consultants.
The services of expatriate staff and consultants
would be obtained in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines for consulting services.
Rate of Return               The overall economic rate of return for the three
productive sub-projects, which together involve
nearly one-third of total project cost, is esti-
mated at 18 percent, including their share of
the cost of supporting services.
Appraisal Report             Appraisal of a Rural Development Fund Project,
Cameroon No. 1479-CM dated May 26, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Cameroon, for the equivalent
of US$7.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a rural development
fund project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and its findings are incorporated below; a report is in
preparation.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.3 million (mid-1975) and covers
an area of 475,000 km2. The country's natural resources are varied, but
not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions permit culti-
vation of a wider range of crops than is commonly found in West Africa, and
the forest areas of the southeast contain large untapped timber resources.
The north holds promising potential for livestock development.
4.        The main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for export. A bauxite project is in the
early stages of preparation, and offshore oil and gas exploration is also
being carried out and has yielded some promising results.
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by
vast underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export route
for landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and inland
transport infrastructure are essential to promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
1/   Parts I and II are largely the same as the corresponding sections of
the Second SOCAPALM Project President's Report, dated March 16, 1977.



-2-
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious internal
political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector with the largest part
devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development con-
straint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and diver-
sifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined with
stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that made it
possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to 40 percent)
of public investment out of local revenues. However, this policy also imposed
excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in such areas as road
maintenance, public health, and education.
7.        During the period 1971-1976, growth of real GDP slowed to less than
3 percent per annum. This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's
control such as: (i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and
1972; (ii) several years of drought in the north; (iii) a drastic decline in
domestic and foreign private investment, triggered primarily by the relative
stagnation of the agricultural sector and by the completion of the most
obvious import substitution projects during the preceding decade; (iv) a drop
in 1975 in world demand for both cocoa and timber; and finally (v) rapidly
rising import prices.
8.        The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up public
investment, which has increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages of
about US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development
Plan (1972-1976). At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed on agri-
cultural output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 percent of
GDP, rural development has comprised about 18 percent, transport and communi-
cations 42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent. Since nearly
75 percent of public investment has been in sectors where its contribution to
domestic output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of this substantial
investment effort on economic growth was limited during the Third Plan period.
In addition, physical realizations have been in many cases less than projected
due largely to substantial cost increases and the subsequent need to either
reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments has not been a major constraint until re-
cent years; however, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a result
of worldwide inflation and heavy public development expenditure, especially
in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined, particu-
larly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit in 1975.
Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted in a fall
in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import requirements
in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Thanks mainly to considerably
improved export demand and higher prices, especially for coffee and timber, by



- 3 -
May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the absolute level of 1972 and
1973. However, because of continuing international inflation, Cameroon's
official gross international reserves, at end-1976, still covered less than
one month of import requirements, a low level by usual international stan-
dards but still acceptable in the "Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale"
(BEAC) monetary union arrangements.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). A Bank economic mission
discussed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priorities.
It is anticipated that short- and medium-term growth of GDP will be 5 to 6
percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the
1960s. However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of public
investment and further expand and diversify the country's production base,
higher rates of growth can be attained in the early 1980s. With this goal
in mind, the new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public investment
target of over US$2.0 billion in constant 1974 dollars or two and one-half
times that achieved during the preceding plan period. The Plan gives in-
creasing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. The share of transport infrastructure investments
is declining somewhat but remains high in absolute figures, while invest-
ments in electric energy will increase. Social investments, particularly
for sports and administrative buildings, see their importance considerably
reduced. These changes in sectoral priorities are very much in line with
the recommendations of the 1975 economic mission.
11.       To ensure that appropriate priorities will in fact be achieved,
the Government will need to strengthen its ability to choose, prepare, and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport sectors. Some
progress is being made in this direction. Special planning units are grad-
ually being established within the technical ministries. A Government-owned
consulting firm, the "Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique,"
was created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to accelerate project
preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations are also serving to
strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public sector. Never-
theless, further improvements are needed, particularly in the management of
public corporations and in strengthening and coordinating rural development
institutions. A recently approved Technical Assistance Credit will assist
efforts recently undertaken by the Government in these fields by providing
technical assistance experts, training local staff, and financing high
priority studies and project preparation in key economic sectors.
12.       Even assuming these improvements take place, absorptive capacity
is likely to limit the rate of investment in the high priority sectors. With
respect to the overall investment level, financial considerations also sug-
gest that public investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to exceed
US$1.3 billion in constant 1974 dollars, or some US$400 million per year



in current dollars. Budgetary revenues have reached about 17 percent of GDP
and cannot be expected to increase much faster than the economy as a whole.
Current expenditures, on the contrary, will expand more rapidly as a result
of recent increases in public investment in transport, education, and health.
Furthermore, public debt charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of
public enterprises, and will absorb an increasing share of public savings.
Consequently, in the next five years, public savings after debt service
will probably not exceed US$100 million per year, or some 25 percent of
total public irnvestment, as compared with 38 percent over the past few years.
Cameroon will thus have to rely on external financing for the bulk of its
public investment.
13.       An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of
relatively slow economic growth, and unfavorable terms of trade, will re-
quire careful foreign debt management. However, on the reasonable assump-
tion that at least 50 percent of foreign public capital inflow will be on
concessionary terms, the foreign debt service ratio could be maintained
below 10 percent by 1980. Cameroon's proven ability to make effective use
of external resources, and the Government's dedication to development are
reasons for added external support. To avoid further rapid buildup of debt
service, lenders, including the Bank Group, should provide a large part
of their assistance on concessionary terms. Furthermore, local resources
including local borrowing are only expected to cover 30 percent of all Plan
outlays after debt service and many projects will not attract any foreign
funds. Under these circumstances, foreign lenders should be prepared to
finance more than two-thirds of total project costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$276.5
million and cover twenty-one projects: eight in agriculture, seven in trans-
portation, three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-
scale enterprise project, and one technical assistance project. Transporta-
tion represents the largest share (49 percent) of our past commitments fol-
lowed by agriculture (33 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1977 and includes notes on on-
going projects. Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encoun-
tered in the execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown
willingness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such prob-
lems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's in-
stitutions.



16.       Bank Group assistance to Cameroon supports the priority the Gov-
ernment rightly attaches to the regional distribution of agricultural devel-
opment and to a sound balance between improving conditions in the traditional
sector and promoting plantation agriculture, including smallholder schemes.
Thus we have helped the Government create an effective and well-managed
plantation sector by financing oil palm and rubber plantations in the east
and west. At the same time, we have helped promote smallholder rice irriga-
tion and livestock in the north. The ongoing cocoa project is helping to
modernize cocoa growing by smallholders and to raise rural productivity in
areas south and west of the capital. The rubber project approved in June
1975 is helping develop the southwest coastal region. Rural development
projects in populated but poor regions are being established with the assis-
tance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project, which has
been recently approved by the Board, will help finance studies and three-year
trial activities required before a full-scale rural development program can
be launched. The Rural Development Fund Project presented in this report is
designed to help the Government establish the machinery for processing and
implementing small-scale rural development schemes. Field appraisals for the
Zapi-East Integrated Rural Development Project and for the Western Highlands
Rural Development Project have recently been completed and the projects are
scheduled to be presented to the Board during FY78. The recently approved
Second SOCAPALM Project is a follow-up to a successful oil palm project
(SOCAPALM I), which has been completed, and is a first step in promoting
smallholder oil palm plantations in Cameroon. Also scheduled for presentation
to the Board in FY78 is a tree crop estate and smallholder development project
in the west, a follow-up of the Bank Group financed CAMDEV project. Besides
promoting much needed foodstuffs production, increased Bank Group lending for
agriculture will support the Government's effort to focus on rural development
in order to improve income distribution and to achieve a better balance in
regional development.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of 1973 was
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The proj-
ect has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a Supplemen-
tary Credit approved in March 1976. The Second Railway Project of 1974
has focused on track improvement and expansion of the equipment needed to
maintain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity. Given pro-
jected sharp traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments,
substantial capital outlays are still necessary particularly for the expan-
sion of the port of Douala, which will be assisted by a recently approved
Bank loan and IDA credit, and some related facilities such as a railway
station and marshalling yard to be built outside the port area. An engi-
neering loan, approved in May 1976, will help complete the engineering of
this station and marshalling yard. Improvement of the Douala-Yaounde trans-
port corridor will also require substantial investment. A study financed by



- 6 -
the Bank and designed to help determine an economically optimal investment
strategy for this corridor is in the process of completion. Its principal
recommendations and a proposed investment package are being discussed between
the Government and a number of aid-giving agencies. Future road investments
should mainly be for road maintenance and feeder roads to provide links to
local markets and facilitate exploitation of Cameroon's forests. In other
sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project, approved in 1975,
focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship. A Third Education
Project, approved in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education
and training.
18.       In all our projects, we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions
and improving sector policies. The recently approved Technical Assistance
Project would help to strengthen Government services in several key minis-
tries involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing.
In addition, through our economic work we will continue to advise the author-
ities, at their request, on development questions in general, and on partic-
ular matters such as economic management, problems of urban migration, and
manpower development. To help achieve the Government's priorities and to
support our future lending strategy will require continuing emphasis on
strengthening the institutional framework, particularly concerning project
planning preparation and implementation in transportation and rural and urban
development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
foreign aid to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While
at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the
proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part of external assistance
was provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive
sectors. The European Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed
their lending mainly to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place.
Bank Group disbursements were small during this period. From 1972 to 1974
overall disbursements of foreign aid increased to about US$60 million with
one-third as grants. The Bank Group's share of these inflows amounted to
about 25 percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with
other donors; in eleven of our twenty-one projects, joint or parallel co-
financing arrangements have been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1975
amounted to US$362 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in 1981.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.4 percent
in 1975 and is projected to reach 9.5 percent in 1981. At that time annual
foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 9 percent con-
sisting of grants. At end-1975 IBRD debt accounted for 13.7 percent of all
public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 10.6 percent of public debt ser-
vice. IDA credits accounted for 25 percent of public debt outstanding and
0.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank Group is expected to account
for about 25 percent of total public debt and 14 percent of public debt ser-
vice in 1980.



- 7 -
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.    IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM). The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversi-
fication of an existing estate by producing rubber for export and palm oil
for the domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation
by domestic shareholders.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Main Features and Recent Developments
22.       Agriculture, including forestry and livestock, plays a major role
in the Cameroon economy, providing a livelihood for about 85 percent of the
population and accounting for 35-40 percent of GDP and over 75 percent of the
value of exports. The agricultural sector can be divided in two major sub-
sectors: traditional agriculture and industrial plantations. The tradi-
tional subsector accounts for over 85 percent of agricultural output. It
comprises some one million smallholdings of about two hectares each, using
family labor. Smallholders produce foodcrops for subsistence and for the
local market, and cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts for export. Cattle-
raising, mainly by nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoralists in northern Cameroon
and the north-central Adamaoua plateau, accounts for about 15 percent of the
production of the traditional subsector. The industrial plantation subsector
comprises several large Government-owned and a few private industrial estates
(foreign-owned) producing mainly palm oil largely for domestic consumption
and rubber for export.
23.       Production of foodstuffs has expanded over the past five years at
an annual rate of about 3.5 percent, ahead of population growth. But this
has been due mainly to a rapid growth in the output of vegetables in response
to growing urban demand, as against stagnation in the output of traditional
staples such as maize (in the west), plantains, yams, cassava and cocoyams
(in the center south) and millet and sorghum in the north. Marketing of food
crops is almost exclusively in the hands of private traders, most of whom
operate over limited areas with a small turnover. Storage facilities are
inadequate.
24.       The national livestock herd is estimated at 3 million cattle, 3
million sheep and goats, 0.5 million pigs and 8 million poultry. Annual
meat production from the national herd is estimated at 80,000 tons. In the
past, this was supplemented by imports of live animals from Chad, but recently
these cattle have been diverted to Nigeria, so that without an increase in
local production, annual per capita meat consumption has probably fallen from



- 8 -
its previous level of about 11 kg. Market price increases for beef and
cattle over the last two years have been about fifteen percent per year.
Price controls have been established by the Government, but have so far
been ineffective.
25.       Although forest accounts for 37 percent of Cameroon's total land
area, the forestry sector contributes less than 3 percent to GDP, 8 percent
to exports, and 7 percent to employment. Better utilization of Cameroon's
vast forest resources calls for improved inventory statistics, construction
of feeder roads, encouragement of local wood processing, and appropriate
concession and fiscal policies. Studies financed by the Bank Group under
the Second Highway Project (Credit 429-CM and Loan 935-CM) are designed to
assist Government efforts in these fields.
26.       There are marked regional disparities in farm incomes stemming
basically from differences in farm size due to population pressure and the
type of cash crops grown. Per capita farm incomes are the highest in the
cocoa and coffee producing areas of the south, about US$130 per capita,
whereas in the northern highlands they are as low as US$40.
Institutions
27.       The National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER), an agricultural
credit institution, will play a key role in the execution of the project
presented in this report. FONADER was created in 1973 in the wake of the
liquidation of five experimental provincial development agencies. It was
given the dual role of: (i) providing credit to farmers, precooperatives,
and cooperatives, and (ii) appraising, financing and supervising a wide var-
iety of rural development programs, from pesticide and fertilizer supply,
to village water supply and irrigation projects. FONADER operates from its
Yaounde headquarters, relying on the departmental field services of the min-
istries concerned for the basic evaluation and implementation tasks. The
shortcomings of assuming such widespread responsibilities from a narrow base
have now become apparent; a reorganization plan has been outlined and is
presently under review by the Government. This plan suggests concentrating
FONADER's activities on agricultural credit operations with corollary changes
in its financial and organizational structure, such as the opening of regional
offices. In addition, a detailed organization study, to be financed by the
European Development Fund (EDF), is about to get underway. The Government has
agreed to consult with IDA prior to implementing any measures that would
affect FONADER's administrative organization, operational policies, or finan-
cial resources so as to ensure that such measures would not adversely affect
the objectives and activities of the proposed project (Section 4.04 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
28.       Agricultural services are provided by a variety of governmental
services and publicly-owned organizations. The Ministries of Agriculture
and Livestock have primary responsibility for most aspects of agricultural
and animal production, respectively. Agricultural research is largely under-
taken by the recently established National Organization for Scientific and



- 9 -
Technical Research (ONAREST) and coordinated by the Ministry of Economy and
IPlanning. Responsibility for agricultural training is divided between the
Ministries of Agriculture and Education. The Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock have provincial and departmental services that include representa-
tives of various ministerial directorates (e.g. Rural Engineering, Coopera-
tives, Veterinary Services). These services enjoy a high degree of opera-
tional autonomy but are burdened by a number of shortcomings including
management, communication, and coordination problems as well as manpower
and budgetary constraints. A number of publicly-owned companies and devel-
opment agencies have also been established for specific agricultural pro-
grams or projects. Examples are the "Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies"
(oil palm) the "Societe de Developpement du Coton" (cotton), and the
"Societe d'Expansion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture de Yagoua"
(SEMRY), an irrigated rice development institution.
Agricultural Development Stratgey
29.       Cameroon's Fourth Plan (1977-1981) gives increasing emphasis to
directly productive sectors. Projected public investment in agricultural
development would represent some 17 percent of the Plan's total capital
expenditure. At the same time, recurrent expenditures for rural develop-
ment services are projected to grow by 6.7 percent per annum in real terms
over the Plan period.
30.       Implicit in the Fourth Plan is a two-pronged agricultural devel-
opment strategy. Because of the need for increased export revenues and to
utilize fully the technical and managerial experience already acquired by
existing organizations, about a quarter of the total projected investment
will be for further expansion of plantation agriculture, including promo-
tion of smallholder schemes, and for the development of modern ranch programs.
The rest of the investment program is intended to promote and improve pro-
duction in the traditional sector through a variety of means, such as in-
tegrated regional development, settlement schemes, and specific crop and
livestock promotion. It is recognized that rural development requires many
relatively small and localized supporting activities in such fields as self-
help efforts by the local population, credit for individual producers, rural
water supply, and small-scale irrigation projects. The project presented in
this report is designed to meet these needs by helping develop the required
technical and managerial capabilities and financing a first stage program
of selected activities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.       The Government of Cameroon has requested IDA assistance to set up
a Rural Development Fund (RDF) and finance as a first step a group of high
priority small-scale rural development schemes. The project was identified
by an RMWA mission in late-1975, and prepared by RMWA missions in April and
August 1976. An IDA mission appraised the project in October/November 1976.



- 10 -
A report entitled "Appraisal of a Rural Development Fund Project - Cameroon"
(No. 1479-CM dated May 26, 1977) is being circulated separately. Negotia-
tions for the proposed Credit were held in Washington from May 3 to 6, 1977
with a Cameroonian delegation headed by His Excellency, Mr. Benoit Bindzi,
Ambassador of the United Republic of Cameroon to the United States.
Purpose
32.       The proposed project is intended to develop and strengthen
Cameroonian institutions involved with programming, implementing and super-
vising rural development projects. To this end, the proposed project would
help establish a much needed structure for channeling and monitoring the
effective use of funds for small-scale and repeatable rural development
projects geared to improving productive activities as well as infrastruc-
ture. These objectives conform with Cameroon's agricultural development
strategy as presented in the Fourth Development Plan (1977-1981).
Project Description
33.       The proposed project would concentrate on the four Northern Prov-
ince Departments of Diamare, Margui-Wandala, Mayo-Danay, and Logone et Chari.
It would be implemented over a four-year period and consist of:
(a) improving about 300 ha of bottomland near
Moulvouday for rice cultivation;
(b) developing irrigated market gardening (onions
and vegetables) in a 250-ha area near Maroua
by providing loans and technical assistance
to about 60 subsistence farmers;
(c) developing commercial stall fattening of steers
by providing credit facilities and technical
assistance to about 2,000 farmers in the Mandara
mountains area;
(d) constructing 10 small dams in the Mandara moun-
tains for human and animal water supply;
(e) increasing and improving village water supply on
the Diamare Plain by: (i) rehabilitating about
600 existing open wells and capping 60 of them;
(ii) drilling about 430 boreholes; and (iii) equip-
ping about 490 water points with hand- or pedal-
operated pumps;
(f) providing funds (some US$500,000) for as-yet-uniden-
tified sub-projects; and



- 11 -
(g) providing for technical assistance, on-the-job
training of local personnel, project monitoring,
carrying out a survey of waterborne diseases in
the project area, preparation of further sub-
projects and of a follow-up RDF project, and
supporting services.
Project Implementation
34.       The Government would create within FONADER a Rural Development
Fund unit, to be denominated "Fonds Special d'Actions Rurales" (FSAR), which
would assume overall responsibility for project execution. FSAR would have
operational autonomy and be responsible for: channeling project funds to
executing agencies and units; overall project supervision; establishing
annual programs, budgets and reports; procurement; preparing sub-projects
to be financed out of the provision for unidentified projects; and preparing
a follow-up RDF project. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
is that FSAR has been established under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). FSAR would
be staffed with a Cameroonian Director, an internationally recruited chief
Operations Officer, an accountant and supporting staff. Responsibility for
executing the investments would be assigned to several Government technical
services and agencies as follows: (i) the Rural Engineering Service of the
Ministry of Agriculture for well construction, pump installation, small dams
construction; (ii) SEMRY for bottomland development; (iii) the Hydrogeological
Service of the Ministry of Mines and Energy for borehole drilling; (iv) the
Community Development Service of the Ministry of Agriculture for assisting in
recruitment and organization of unskilled labor for the small dams construc-
tion and voluntary labor for the bottomland works; and (v) the Agricultural
and Livestock Extension Services of the Ministries of Agriculture and Live-
stock, respectively, which would assist FSAR in implementing the Market Gar-
dening and Stall Fattening sub-projects. Not later than December 31, 1977,
FONADER would, on behalf of FSAR enter into operational arrangements, satis-
factory to IDA, with each of the ministries concerned, to define in detail
their respective roles in the execution of the proposed project (Section
3.01(d) and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
35.       Key project staff would be:   (i) the FSAR Director; (ii) the FSAR
Chief Operations Officer; (iii) the Credit Manager; (iv) the Credit Specialist;
(v) the Maintenance Engineer for the village water supply program; (vi) the
Small Dams Construction Engineer; (vii) the Borehole Unit Manager; (viii) the
Borehole Drilling Instructor; (ix) the four Open Wells Brigade Heads; and (x)
the FSAR Accountant. The FSAR Director, the Credit Manager and the Accountant
would be Cameroonians recruited by FONADER and appointed after consultation
with IDA. A number of well qualified Cameroonian technicians operating in
the project area -- the Borehole Unit Manager at the Hydrogeological Service
in Garoua, and four Open Wells Brigade Heads in the Northern Region's Rural
Engineering Service -- would be assigned by their respective Ministries to
relevant project implementation units.



- 12 -
The remaining key project staff would need experience and technical qual-
ifications currently unavailable or in critically short supply in Cameroon,
and would therefore be internationally recruited. If requested by the Gov-
ernment, the Agricultural Projects Management Unit of IDA's Western Africa
Regional Office would assist in recruitment. The expatriate staff would not
only provide on-the-job technical training to local personnel, but they would
also ensure that senior local staff be given a thorough grounding in essential
management matters, such as work planning and supervision, budgeting, procure-
ment, and control of stocks. Provisions on these matters would be included
in the terms of reference of the expatriate staff.   Assurances were obtained
that: (i) all key expatriate project staff would be employed under terms of
reference and would have qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA,
and (ii) the FSAR Director, the Credit Manager and the Accountant would be
appointed after consultation with IDA. Appointment of the FSAR Director and
of the FSAR Chief Operations Officer would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
36.       FSAR would submit annual project implementation programs and bud-
gets to IDA for approval not later than December 31, 1977 in respect of
the project activities to be carried out until June 30, 1978 and not later
than April 30, for the following fiscal years (Section 3.10 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). FSAR would introduce before March 31, 1978,
a monitoring and reporting system satisfactory to IDA, and would be responsi-
ble for timely reporting thereafter. Assurances to this effect were obtained
(Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       FSAR would also be charged, during the first project year, with
the identification and preparation of small rural projects yet to be identi-
fied and for the financing of which US$0.5 million has been provided under
the proposed project. The Directorate of Studies and Projects in the Ministry
of Agriculture would assist FSAR in this preparatory work. Proposals for sub-
projects to be financed under the above provision should meet the following
basic criteria: that they (i) benefit a large number of rural inhabitants;
and (ii) be of small scale, requiring simple implementation arrangements,
taking full advantage of the existing Government's services. Fully appraised
and well justified proposals for yet unidentified sub-projects would be sub-
mitted with all supporting documentation to IDA for approval (Section 3.08
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). FSAR would also be responsible
for initiating preparation of a follow-up RDF project.
Control of Potential Project-Related Health Hazards
38.       It can be anticipated that the construction of water reservoirs
under the bottomland development and the small dam sub-projects would bring
about some health problems. The spread of waterborne diseases, especially
schistosomiasis, is likely to occur. The Government health services and
the community development agents involved with the project would advise the



- 13 -
population on the adoption of precautionary measures. A surveillance mecha-
nism to monitor the health situation and identify the need and feasibility of
control actions would be set up by the Government health services in the small
bottomland development and dams sub-project area. The Government has agreed
to set up such a surveillance mechanism not later than April 30, 1979 (Sec-
tion 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       In addition, the project would finance a health survey of the proj-
ect area to assess the available health infrastructure, the epidemiological
situation and the management and budgetary constraints of the health services.
The survey would provide the data base for the design of appropriate health
actions in the Mandara mountains, and would assist the Government in adjust-
ing its health strategy in the Northern Province.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       Project costs for the four-year project period are estimated at
US$10.6 million equivalent (mid-1977 prices), including sales and excise taxes
of US$0.9 million, with a foreign exchange component of 57 percent. Cost
estimates include physical contingencies of 10 percent of base cost (US$0.8
million) and provision for expected price increases of 17 percent of base cost
(US$1.4 million). Base cost is made up as follows: bottomland development
US$0.6 million; market gardening US$0.1 million; stall fattening US$0.4 mil-
lion; provision for unidentified projects US$0.5 million; small dams US$1.6
million; village wells, pumps and boreholes US$3.6 million; and project
supporting services US$1.6 million.
41.       The proposed IDA credit of US$7.0 million would finance 72 percent
of total project costs net of taxes and duties, covering the equivalent of the
foreign exchange cost (US$6.0 million) and US$1.0 million of local costs. The
financing of local costs in Cameroon is justified for the reasons discussed in
para. 13. The balance of project costs net of taxes and duties would be met
by the Government (US$2.6 million), and by beneficiaries (US$0.1 million) in
the market gardening and stall fattening sub-projects. Farmers in the bottom-
land development sub-project would also contribute by providing unpaid volun-
tary labor of about US$30,000 equivalent that is not included in the project
cost estimates.
42.       The IDA credit and Government contribution, except for salaries of
local personnel which would continue to be directly paid, would be passed on
as grants to an account opened by FONADER in the name of FSAR. The funds
would be channeled by FSAR to the services or units in charge of sub-project
execution on the basis of approved annual implementation programs and budgets.
Each executing service or unit would be required to maintain individual sub-
project accounts. The Government's annual contribution to the RDF project
would be separately shown in the budget and the funds would be transferred
in quarterly installments to the FSAR account. A condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit would be that the Government had made an advance pay-
ment of CFAF 50 million (US$200,000 equivalent) into the FSAR account, which



- 14 -
would constitute a revolving fund to be administered by FSAR for prefinanc-
ing project expenditures (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Terms and Conditions of Farmer Credit
43.       Loans to farmers under the market gardening and stall fattening
sub-projects would be for four years and two years respectively with a mini-
mum rate of interest of 10 percent per annum (Schedule 4 to the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). Pumps to be provided on credit under the market
gardening sub-project would only involve hand- or pedal-operated pumps. Motor
pumps would not be financed, as their introduction would create social prob-
lems such as displacement of manual labor.
Cost Recovery
44.       The possibility of repeating activities such as those supported
under the proposed project, especially village water supplies, depends on
success in recovering the largest possible share of investment and mainte-
nance costs from the beneficiaries and the local communities involved. To
this effect, the Government would implement, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA a pilot cost recovery scheme along the following lines:
(i) in the bottomland development sub-project, investment and maintenance
costs of water control works would be recovered from the beneficiaries in
accordance with the provisions of the land use regulations (cahiers des
charges) currently enforced in the SEMRY project (Credit 302 CM) to the
satisfaction of IDA; (ii) in the small dams sub-project, the maintenance
costs of the dams would be covered by the beneficiaries and the local com-
munities involved; the beneficiaries would provide the labor required for
periodic cleaning and weeding of the reservoirs; the local communities
would make adequate budget appropriations to cover related monetary expend-
itures; (iii) in the village wells, pumps and boreholes sub-projects the
beneficiaries and their communities would (a) provide a contribution to
investment costs estimated at the equivalent of the whole of initial pump
capital cost; and (b) cover the costs of operating, maintaining and replac-
ing the facilities. The Government would submit to IDA for approval not
later than April 30, 1978 i.e. together with the first village water sup-
ply investment program, the specific measures required for implementing
and monitoring the pilot cost-recovery scheme. By June 30, 1980, the Gov-
ernment and IDA would review progress in the pilot cost-recovery scheme and
discuss possible improvements (Sections 3.15 and 3.16 of the raft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       Except for items specified below, procurement would be through in-
ternational competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank group guidelines. The
cost of civil works, vehicles and equipment to be procured through ICB would



- 15 -
total about US$3.6 million. To the extent feasible, purchases of vehicles,
equipment and materials would be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to
permit bulk procurement. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a
preference of 15 percent or the level of applicable import duty, whichever
is lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids. Contracts for US$100,000
equivalent or less , which should together not exceed US$1.1 million, would
not be large enough to attract international bids and would be awarded under
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Ten small dams would
be constructed over a four-year period in remote areas. Given the low cost
per dam (about US$45,000), such construction works would not be attractive
to contractors and would therefore be carried out on force account by the
Rural Engineering Service. Expatriate staff and consulting services costing
about US$1.7 million would be obtained according to Bank group Guidelines for
Consulting Services.
46.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover, net
of taxes and duties: (i) 60 percent of civil works, defined as construc-
tion costs of the bottomland sub-project, construction costs and access
roads for the small dams sub-project, and construction of FSAR offices and
workshop rehabilitation at Maroua -- US$0.5 million; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, or 85 percent of local costs if procured locally, of
vehicles and equipment -- US$2.4 million; (iii) 60 percent of operating
costs, other than local personnel -- US$1.0 million; and (iv) 100 percent
of expatriate staff costs, including benefits and housing allowances --
US$1.4 million. An amount of US$1.7 million, which includes US$0.3 mil-
lion for as-yet-unidentified projects, would be left unallocated. Dis-
bursements against (i), (ii), and (iv) above would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (iii) would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures certified by the FSAR Director and FONADER's Director General
with the supporting documentation retained by FSAR and made available for
inspection during IDA project supervision missions.
Benefits and Justification
47.       The project is expected to have a major institutional impact.
FONADER would be strengthened by: (i) the creation of the FSAR unit, which
would provide a much needed fund-channeling mechanism for rural investment;
(ii) the development of preparation, implementation and supervision capabil-
ities for rural development and small farmer credit projects; and (iii) the
implementation of a reporting and monitoring system, as well as accounting
and procurement procedures, that could become of general application in the
future. The regional field services of the Ministries of Agriculture, Live-
stock and Mines and Energy would be strengthened and would acquire on-the-
job experience in the implementation of simple, repeatable rural works.
48.       Bottomland development, market gardening and stall fattening would
provide substantial direct benefits for about 2,400 farm families. Net cash
return per man-day would increase for bottomland development from the equiv-
alent of US$4.90 to US$10.0, for market gardening from the equivalent of
US$1.30 to US$5.70 and for stall fattening from the equivalent of US$0.60 to
US$1.08, thus offering good incentives to participating farmers. Economic



- 16 -
rates of return have been estimated at 22 percent for bottomland development,
20 percent for market gardening, and 34 percent for stall fattening. The
overall rate of return for these sub-projects, which together involve nearly
one-third of total project cost, is 26 percent, or 18 percent including their
share of the cost of supporting services.
49.       The major benefit from the village water supply component would
be an improvement in the quality of life for about 120,000 rural families.
The project would improve water quality and thereby contribute to reducing
health hazards, increase daily overall availability from 15 to 25 liters per
capita, and greatly reduce the burden of carrying water over long distances,
a particular benefit to rural women.
Risks
50.       Given the current shortage of qualified supervisory personnel and
the fact that rural construction works are limited to the dry season, the
success of the RDF project would depend on the timely recruitment of key
project staff; special efforts, including recourse to the Western Africa
Region's Agricultural Projects Management Unit if requested by the Government,
would therefore be made for this purpose. In assessing the merit of the
bottomland development scheme, the incidence of low rainfall years has been
accounted for by lowering the projected paddy yields; moreover, the possible
spread of waterborne diseases would be closely monitored. For the small dams
sub-project, the risk of further spreading of endemic waterborne diseases
would be closely monitored. Steps would be taken under the project to re-
strict direct animal access to water, and to advise villagers in proper water
use. A health survey of the project area would be carried out. In the stall
fattening scheme credit recovery could be somewhat risky, since fattened
cattle could be sold in non-controlled markets. However, the influence of
traditional leaders and community pressure for repayment by participating
farmers is expected to be considerable. These circumstances and the fact that
the credit scheme would provide farmers with a unique opportunity to start
diversifying their activities and substantially increasing their income would
tend to counter possible credit recovery problems. Finally, since the pro-
posed RDF project would consist of at least five independent sub-projects, the
failure of one component would not have serious repercussions on the others.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special in-
terest are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed Development Credit Agreement would be that:



- 17 -
(i) the Government has formally created the FSAR (ii) the FSAR Director and
the FSAR Chief Operations Officer have been appointed and (iii) the Govern-
ment has made an advance payment of CFAF 50 million (US$200,000 equivalent)
into the FSAR account to set up a revolving fund (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 20, 1977






ANlNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page 1 of I. pagTes
CAMEROON               - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA   ETHCU KM21                   ---- --------     -  -------------------
------                                  ~~~~~~~~~CAMEROON                        REFERENCE COUNTRIES I 197J)
1I~TAL.      475.4                                            MOST RtECENT
AGQIC.         56.0                         1980        1970    ESTIMATE            GHANA            IVORY COAST     MALAYSIA 
GNP PER CAPITA (uS))                           92D.0       19 0.0        270.0                340.0        340.0        440.0
PnPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
pnPULATION (MIU-YR, MILLInN)                   5 Lb         6.6         7.3                  8.6           5.4         10. 4
PCPUlLATICN DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                             11 .0         lb.0        15.0                 36.0          16.0        32.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO                *.          2.0           *                  62.0          30.0       291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUnE AIRkTi. DATE PER THOUSAND            43. 5        42. 1        4~0.i4               4 9.8a       46 .1        4 2.2
CPUOE DFATH DATF PFER THOUSAND              28.0        23.9         22.0                 24.4         23. 3        1 2. 9
INFANT MUATALITY RATE I/THOUI                ...                    42.0 /a              156.0           .          40.8  /a
tIFE EXPECTANCY AT 61ATH IYRSI            35.9         41.0         41.0                 41.5         41.0         5b.7
r'RCSS R~EPRCCUCTION DATE                   2 .3/a       2.7          2.17                 3. 2         3. 1         2.6   /a
POPULATION, GRfnwTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                       2.4          2.0          2.0                  2.6          3.4          2.6
URBAN                                        ..6.1                    755.0                             8. 7         1 .
UPBAN POPULATION IX OF TflTAL)                14~.9 /b     20.3        26.3                 29.0         28.0          2 7.8
AGE STRLCTURE IPENCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                            40.0         43.0            .                  46.9         42.5         44. 
IS '0 64 YEARS                             560          5.              .49.5                          5I ~.8       52. 7
65 YEARS ANC OVER                           4.0          3.0           .                   3.6          2.7          3.2  a2
AGE DEPENIIENCY RATIO                         0.8          0.9           ..1.0                             0.8         0. 
ECONOMIC OEPENDENJCY RATIO                    1.0          1. 2                               I . 4       0.9 Ls.       1.6 
FAPILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIVE, TSCU)                  ....                                        10.9           .         222.2   a~
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOM4EN)                  ....2. 0                                                                a. 80 
EMPLOYMENT
TCTAL 1.A8CR FORCE (THLCUSRNDI             2400.0       2800.0           .                3300.0       2600.0       2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE I(1)              88.0         82.0           .                  54.0         82.0         43.0
UNEMPL'3YEO (2 OF LABOR FORCE)                  ....5. 0 L                                                 6.0          6.0
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
2 nFl PRIVATE INCCME REC*O BY-
HIGHEST    51 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                                         28.  .  .  .Z.3
HIGHEST 201 OP HOUSEHOLDS                    ...                        ..                                .         56.0
LOWEST    202 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .             ..                                ..                      3.5
LOwEST   402 OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .             ..                                ..                     11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
3 OWNED BY TCP 102 nF OWNERS                    .            ..
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 103 OWNERS                 .             ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN                 337510.0      293&.0       30520.0              12950.0      12140.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              5   00.      270.0 Ia     26IO.O               I TO 07. 0   2480.0   d~ 1 080.0   /. 
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                4Io. Do Lkd   550.0           7. 60.0                        680.0 ~d     270.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES 12 OF REQUIREMENTS)               96.0         96.0        104.                  96.0        108.0         93.0
PROTFIN IGRAMS PER DAY)                    59.0         59.0         84.00~d              46.0         60.0         49.0      d
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                 ..         23.0k          ..10.0 L                        1B.0 /       20.0   ad
DEATH RATE (ITHOU) AGES 1-4                     ...                       ..                                 .5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRtMARY SCHOOL                             66.0        108.0        107.                  58.0         76.0         8.
SECONDARY SCHOOL                            2Dj          9.0Lo       11.0 02.              9.If.L                   34.0
VEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   14.0 LAf     14.Ogk       14.0 Lf              15.0         13.0         13.0 /a.
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                          23.0          22.0         22.0 /a              23.0          7.0          3. 
ADULT LITERACY RATE I%)                        ..         12.0           ..25.0                          20.0         77.00L
HOUS ING
PERSCNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                      ...                       ..                                 .2.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (2)                              ...                        ..                                .         65.0 L
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
il1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                        ...                        ..                                .         43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2                            .             .            ....                                        30.0
CONSUMPTI CN
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)                3.0         36.0         36.0                 78.0         17.0         41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                 3.0          6.0          6.0 L         ~       4.0        10.0         23.0 
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)                 190.0       201.0            ..338.0                       120.0        382.0     a
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                       ...                       .0.4                            0.2          4.0    a
SEE NOTES AND CEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, cad for Mas            Recent Estimate betee
1973 and 1975.
M0 Malysia has been selecte d an the aniy san-OytC of a      Jl..  tilar to Caisroan, which, endated with a dierstite.d tropical proda-ti-n, rahes the
GDP Per caPita target (US $400 to 600).
CAMEROON         1960     /   Wont Ce.erroo,      /h  1962,     Ic  Including nidulv-, anistant       ideiven and assiastans ioes          d  Govenmet hospitain,
total hospitals and nedica.    anen,1           12-li yearn of age       If  13 yearn for tact Caneroon.
1970    Ia    slodiog mtdwi-e and aenistane      /0m         b   1964-66,     Ic  12-18 year   of age,     /d   13 yets- for East Camevoce.
MOOT RECENT ESTIMiATE:    /a  1972,     /b   1971;    Ic   Tnc1,idt-g  atctn     ost        /d 1969-71 averge,       Ie   12-18 yers of age,
/i  13 years ire East Can     rc.
CHANOA            1970    I   Registered unemployed;       /b  Registered. see all prautticig in the c...eiry;       /    1966-68,     Id  6-15 and 16-21 years
of age respectively.
IVORY COAST      1970     /   Doe to soeigratton    eopulatio- growth rain is higher than the ratr of..a..ra Increase,.          /b  1965-70,     /c  Ratio v/
__________        _    population   nder 15and 65 and ove     to total labor forro,      Id  Co-r-oet only,        /n  1964-66,      /f  12-18 yeas   of ago.
MAL%YSIA         1970     I   West Malaysia;      lb  Registerd applicants for sirk,        Ic  Govenmet odey,        Id   1964-66.     /o  12-18 years of ago,
/f 1967; /& Inside only.
03, November 30. 1976
DRETNITIONS OP SOCIAL INIICATORSD
Land Area (thou kos                                                                         Population Per -urge person - Population divided by mob-r of practicing
Total - Total surface area omoprisieg land area an d island ustrer.                           male and feisale iraduote ernrs..   "t rained" or "oertified" nurse, aed
Arica. - Mos.t r.eoner e.ti-ste oi ogriou1ture1 are    coed romspurarly or per-              .a.nIliary personnel with traininger-'sp-irene
nanetly fu   .rps. pauturos. narhet A hitches gardens or to lio fallew.                  Population per hospital bed - Popolation divide,d by     -ber of hospital
iGf per costa, '1011) - tP perc pitadest.inae a, tc,i.rrnnt norbet pr ices,                    bds available in pb6lic and private gonera       and specinlieed soopltal
-,slu1-id by _an     covrsio     ehodanWrld       IakAta      (1973-79 basIs),               and rehabi litation  -nir.     reluden ouns ing h-.n andetablinlients
1960. 1970 and 1975 data,                                                                   for vustodi1 andP prentive care
Per cap ita sueply of ealoios (7.o     reI   rmns     -           Iomuedfer
Pooara   ad vital statistics                                                             oer-gy equivalent of net fond supplies        . ailal  is  ootry Per
peoain(old-yr. million) - As of July first      if not avaiable, a-erge                 tapirs per dsy, -vilsble supplies conprise d-metic productio.. imports
of see end -oat -stinates. 1960. 197i en d 1975 duri                                        les   eopertu, and changes in stork, oet supplien oerlode am inI feed.
seeds, quatities used in food processing and losses in dIstribution,
Peeulattun d-nis-eer ..      0am..n.,.   Mid-ye-r pepolasiun per sq-are kilo-                 requfre_eeto were es     .timtd by FAO base.d on physiolugice1a  - ods for
mete  (10  hetru     f sealara                                                            --rso  activity and heatlt uanidrrlg      ..irenntltonprtore.          body
Pensatio  duoity-er ssareim o    raun  lad_Cnsn         0aoefrwights, age and so                           dis rihutiato  of .Popultion,and      Ioing 10I    o
aglclstlad onl                                                                       wate at-- henhod level
Per capit   supply of protein (aras Per day)        rrLone          of per
pitol setlurses                                                                                uapita net supply of food per day, net sspply of food is defined a
Crude bisrth rat-   e  the..sand - I..oo. IlI-v births pe r rh...s.od of msd-poor             abov, re,q,,irements for all roser1ries estabtiuhd by FESAitcnoniI
population. ten-yea    orcn        vrgevdt, in III( ned 1970,..nd fIve-                     n         Sea eberiqes pronide for a  inims  allo4auc- of60 grams    ftoa
yea-r average eedtoo in 1971 for eus r_rctrnesoto,                                            protein pen day,' and 20 grao of animal and pulse protein, of whioh
Crde death rate Per rhosuand - lo-s1 deaths Per Lho-sa-d of old-pest                          10 gr_t shoul d be   s aimal protein; these standards are l-se    than
pepulorson   te-yer artlh-ti- avr-geu endi-g in 19h0 and 1970 and                           these of 75 gron of total protein and 23 grans of animal protein as
fsv-y-a avrage endIng in 1975 fo.r       remo_cnac   o   ts nte                             on average for the world,Pr-posed by PAO in the Third World Fuod
age              -e1L1)          .    1dl~f-f            ..d       -R on  th.,-sd live- t5  Per capnita ipoieio oceepo Print a--ss  and pulse - Preteio oupply of
LIP e            -en  oeya  birth (pro) - i..rsge  omb-r of vest  of life'eano                 fon    derve   iro      aniasnd pulneu is grams per day
at birch, usualy five-year ave raeu-d-g in 1960. 1970 and 1975 for                        Death rate (/oboe) noe    1-4 - Anneal deoths Pe r thousan:d in age group 1-4
develp_ng conreYears. tchildron iv th-s                                                                                    ie gruoP.   ugg-sted asa     oicter tof
irona,-rn rduction rote - Av-rgo o              Ib o  ive daughters a  omae, will             mlorta
hea  Is her, urmol repredsette     per'iod If she eoP.riece      __reen  age-
spetific f-ielfty rates, snu..lly El 0-pear averages ending io 1960,                      EdosatioSn
1970 and 195 for developing coutries                                                      Adl::,tedtenralleent ratt- - ptris..    t,shuol - Rnrol11eot of all agesa
IPoplisu-n growth rota (%) - total -     Cm-povJ --oso    growth rate   of old-               pecetgeo       priasary school-ag   poplt ion, includes children aged
year popolarion for 19500      1960-70 and 19/5-75                                          h-il y.a.. but adjuoted for different lengths of primary educa.tion,
PeuIlaion growth rate (7.) -    rban - Conpuitnd li.ke growth rate of total                   for nuontries with universal d...tion. onra11ent may         -oeed 1007.
population, dsff-net definitiono ofubnaes ny affeor cmpara-                                 since sone pupils are below on above the official sohool age.
bility of data ma og ....ot ien.                                                         Adlusted enrollment ratio - s.eodary shbool - Computed as shoe,
Urbanopltu         7  fttl      -.Ratio of urban to ,tota   population. diffe-                se..sdary.ed-oation teqo iren at least font yp.aro of appyov..d priosry
retdfinition   of-yhmara        a  offers conpar..bility of data mang                   Instruction, provides genral     vetienal or tean,her rt,ining
coutries.                                                                                   imutrutions for pupils of12 so 17yer         ofag,nrreP.od..ne
Agleu trootore (peroent) - Children (0-14 years.     we .rkini-age (15-A4 years),osre                  are geoerally ...oladed.
and retired (IS years ad over) as, pe rcentages of oid-yoar popaarien.                  Year   of schooling pronided (first and uc.ood level) - Total ye.ar of
hoe depedndeny raise -Rtioof popsiato s__der iS and 65 and           -o  to                    uhoel ing, at seemndary joel.I ootional inetr_ntina mop he partially
thos  uf ages 15 through 64.                                                                or completely monluded.
Ocuoni  de Pendenc Y ratie-Ratio of population unde     1  and 65 and ever               Vocatioa .. en.rollnen.t P. of secondary) - VPeostienal institutions
to the labo   furo   inag   gro   of 15-64 yearn.                                           inolude tenhieira, iedusatrial or other program     whioh  perst.ie  d.-
PanUYI!In,,ac,aes(sauoie                     heu) - Csula,,iv- nonhe     of                   pendently or as departos.ts oP secondary iostitutioon.
acetptors of birih-contrel dvi-e under auspices of oaia            family                Adult literacy rate 7%) - Literate adults (able ta read aod -yie.) as
Pl.anning  P program omeninception                                                          percen.tage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
fail  peoin  -usrs(..fofnaried w       ense) - P.r..stagesofmaried
winen of   hild-bearing age (15-44 years) who sue birtb-coniroIdev.e.                     H-gosn
to all maried wmon in nois     age group.                                                Persona per roan (average) - Average essber of persons Per room       in
--npie d    -nvetio..al dwellings in urban    res   dwellings enclude con-
E.ployme.t                                                                                    pe_sn-t     tutrssd.unoccupied Parts.
Total labor forte (thousand) - P.csn-inally auti-e pers..., inolu,ding                     0Occupied dwelling   wihot piped wate r 7%) - Ocnspied ounventional
aimd feroen sod unemployed but ...nIudloR hous-ewuves, utu,dests     etc.,'dwiRgn ie orban and rural areas without inside or ontside piped
.defimitiano is various ....ntries are nut cnpartable.                                      wa:terfaoil.tien as percentage of all -ucpied delns
Labor forte in agiutoe7) - Agrionlturul labor fume (in farming,                             ho_eo  toeetrinit      (oP al       wllns     - Cooveatiosa1 dwellings with
forstr. t,huting aed .fishing) an prcetage. of mtota        labor force.                   electricity in living quarter     as percen.t of totalIdwelings En urban
goeoployed7% of labor fre)- Unemployed ore usuoal1y defined an Persons                        and rural areas.
w,ho are able asd willing to rke aJob, not of a job ona give         day,                 Rural duellinas   -onnened to eleotrini ty 7%) - Computed as aho-e for
rmined our of a Job, and s..ehiog work for a apes fied     ninisa  period                rural dwellig      ny
sot enc_ediog one wee, may nut be comparable between       . ontries due to
different. definitions of unoplayed and surs        f data.eg.     emPloy-Coonompti..
meet off in   statistic. eaPIe sureys. compalsory aneuploygmeut inrn                     Radio reenivern   (pet thou eop), - All types of rece.ivers for radio broad-
casts to general public per thousand of population, eaclades unlicense
Iccisu  distributionn-  Per..etage  of private income /hoth in c..h and hind)                 reneivo:- in countries and in years when registra.tion of radio seta       a
re -led by rinhest 5%. rirbest 207, Poo resat 20%. and Poorest 417 of                       in effect, data for regen.t yearn nay sot be coparable sinc       moo..t
h.uaholds                                                                                   ooutnies abu1i.hed licenoing.
Passenger ears (per thou pap) - Passenger cars comprise mater cars seating
Distribution of land ownrship - Percentages      fi land owed by wealthiest                   lens thee eight persna. e-ludes ambulances-, hearses and nilitery
10% iiA5nre  t 10n  of land owners.                                                     vehiola..
Eleotrieity limb/yr per ue        Annual connomption of industrial, cannr-
Ileaith and Nutrition                                                                         tial, pablic and privatep elcric ity in hilosctthboars per -apita;
popula:tion per physiolam  - Population divided by somber of practin~ing                      gene.rally ba...d on produntion data, without all-wan.e for I.s.ns in
Phyioan       qualified from a  eina1 sohool at university level,                           grids boo ailesig gut imports and     .sports of 1eletricity.
Neseprini (kg/yr per cap) - Per uapita aensal o-aaptimn is kilogram
estimated from domes.tic production plus net Laporto of newsprint.



ANNEX T
ECONOMIC 1NVEIfPHENT DA~TA                                          page 3 of 4 pages
(Amounte n    illon   of U.S. dollars)
Actual                        Prooected            1967..   1972 - 1974    -   1976 -   16        94     18
1967     1972      1974       i975 t       .6  -ry1        1972    1974     1976      1981      196     197      19
NATIONAL ACCOL'S                                                             -      -           - 
p-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates         Aver ge Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             799.4  1109.9     1195.5     1266.1     1363.8   1798.8        6.8    3.8    6.8     5.7       101.2   104.0     103.6
Gains from Terms of Trade (4.)1-4_- _ -6- A                    -     38.2  -   41.2 -62.9          .                                 .2  -    4.0  -    3.6
Gross Domestic Income              789.9  1088.5     1149.5     1237.9     132-2.6  1735.9        6.6    2.8     7.3    5.6       100.0   100.0o   T~oo
Import (incl. NF'S)                234.0   325.0      344.5      364.3      387.4    516.6        6.8    3.0    6.0     5.9        29.6    30.0      29.8
Exports       (import capacity)    213.2   290.6      328.4      325.0      336.1    469.0        6.4    6.3     1.2    6.9        27.0    28.6      27.0
Resource Gap                        7M      7"        -T"~        377      --5I7-l    4/.6       10.6  -46.2    78.5   -1.5      ---        Trz       Z. 
Consumption Expenditures           682.1   951.2     1013.7     1084.0     1145.2   1445.6        6.9    3.2     6.3    4.8        86.4    88.2      83.3
Investment    ' (incl. stocks)    128.7    171.7     169.2       183.2     220.1     337. 7       5.9     .1    14.0    8.9        16.3    14.7      19.4
Domestic Savings                   107.8   137.4      153.0      143.9      170.7    290.2        5.0     5.5    5.6   11.2        13.6    13.3      16,7
National Savings                    87.9   114.0      102.7      110.0      151.2    249.8        5.3     5.4   21.3   10.6        11.1      8.9     14.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                     40.8    89.1      104.3      143.2      1 77. 5  444.4       16.9     8. 2  30.4   20.2        21.7    23.9      35.4
Tntermediate goods (~mmLfuels)    87.3   133.6     198.3       254.3      297.6    533. 7       8.9   21.8    22.5   12.4        46.4    45.5      42.5
0'uels and related materials       8.3    15.2       38.3       52.3       61.8    109.8       12.9   58.7    27.0   12.2         4.4     8.8       8.7
of which:   Petroleum            8.3    15.2      38.3        52.3      61.8     109.8       12.9   58.7    27.0   12.2         4.4     8.8       8.7
Cons   tio'n  ods                 51.6    64.9       95.0      112.7      128.9    169.3       12.2   21.0    16.5    5.6        27.4    21.8      13.5
ToalMach   ors(i)         TEf u39                     ~    *        7        27          10.0   20.0   23.6    13.6      17T"     la       To7u
Exports
Primary. products (exm1. fuels)  143.7   199.9     446.7       398.1     461.0     885.8        6.8   50.0     1.6   14.0        90.8    93.5      86.8
Fuels and related materials        -       -          -          -     -             -
of which:   Petroleiun           -       -          -          -          -        -                  .       .
Manufactured goods                14.6    20.9       31.1       53.9       68.3    134.5        7.4   22.0    48.2   14.5         9.2     6.5      13.2
Total March. Exports (fob)       T5"7    Tfl1      777-T       T327       S27T -T2DuT           6.9   47.1     5.2   14.0       MTO'D   rUTTT     1UU'u
Tourism end Border, TragLe                  .          ..                    .        ..                .
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1967-69    1.00
Export Price Index                94.0   114.1     172.1       189.2     2 12. 6   303.0        4.0   22.8    11.1    7.3
Import Price Index                94.8   127.6     186.0       218.0     239.3     343.7        6.1   20.7   13.4     7.5
Terms of Trade Index              99.1    89.4      92.5        86.8      88.9      88.2       -2.1    1.7  - 2.0    - .2
Exports Volume Index              94.0   123.8     163.9       147.0     164.0     229.0        5. 7  15.1     -      6.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annu.al Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      2 72. 2  352.1    380.1       417.5     432.8     540.7        5.3    2.9    6 .7    4.6       38.5     37.4     34.4
Industry end Mining             170.9    233.2     230.8       258.8     271.8     3 71. 2     6.4    - .1    8.5     6.4       24.2     22. 7    2 3. 6
Serv-ice                        26.      401.6     405.4       46.0D...  488.1    658.3        8.7      .1    9. 7    6.2       37.4     39.9     41.9
Total                            707.4   986.9    1016.3      1136.8    1192.7    1570.2       6.9     1.5    8.3     5.6      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                      As Percent of GOP
(Central Government) (in CFAF billion)
Current Receipts                 31.9      56.6     68.4        79.6     103.8    201.1       12.2     9.9   23.2    14.1       16.4     16.4     17.0
Crent Exenitres                321       6.       60.        71.6       93.9    165.9        7 .7   14.3   24.2   12.1        16.5    14.6      14.0
Buodgetar  aig                     .2      10.0      7.5        8.0        9.9     35.2      t52.7  -15.5    14.9   28.9       -  .1     1.8       3 0
Orther Public Sector Savings      4.6       1.0     13.4        10.9      12.5     19.8       35.7   266.1  - 3.5    9.6         2.4      3.2      1.7
Public Sector Investment         13.5     27.5      43.4       44.2       49.9    124.7       15.3   25.6     7.2   20.1         6.9    10.4      10.6
US $ million
cuRRENT EXPENDITURE DETALS                    Actual        Prelim.   Eat.     Proj.       DETAIL ON                               At 1974-1975 P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)             1967    1972       19 74    1975     1976        PUBLIC SECTOR                      Third Plan     % of Total
Education                              174.4   177.1i     16.9      17. 1   17.4         INVESTMNT PROGRAM     -              1971 / 72 - 19 75 / 76)
Other Social Services                    .7     10.7       9.7      10.0    10.3         Social Sectors                         247.6              26.6
Agriculture                             5.0      5.6       5.9      6.1      6.6         Agriculture                            167.5              18.0
Other Economic Services                11.6     8.7       11.2     12.3     13.5         Industry and Mining                     14.0               1.5
Administration and Defense             59.5    45.3       42.6     41.8     40.3         Power                                   56.8               6.1
Other                                   8.8    12.6       13.7     12.7     12.1         Transport and commuxfications          387.2              41.6
Total C-urrent Expenditures (in                                                          Other                                   57.7               6.2
CFAF billion)                       32.1    46.6       60.9      71.6    93.           Total Expenditures                    930.8             100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1960-     1967-     1072-    1977-       FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)            1965      1971      1976    1981                                     2/
Average ICOR                                                -T2.2     4.0       3.1            Public Sector Savings-             351.8              37.8
Impooi t Elasticity                                .          .968      .789   1.010          Local Borroywing                    55.8               6.0
MErgirnal Domestic Savings Rate                    .          .023      .239    .289          Foreign Financing                  523.2              56.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                     .          .137      .151     .239         Total Financing                    9                 10- i0.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                Total Labor Force                                 ValueA Ade   e    oke(1     67- 69  Prices &     Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                      of Total          1967 - 71         In U.S.ol             ecn     fA    erae       19 67- 71
19 67      !2...71  la967     12..z     Growth Rate         1967       1971       12 67      19 71     Growth Rate
Agriculture   3              22.200      31.700     18.5       19.7          9.3         4,585.6    4,186.1      118.9      107.7         - 2.6
Industry3                    29,210      41,360     24.3       25.7         9.1          1,064.7    1,090.4       27.6       28.1            .6
8ervice -/    4               27.328     34.427      22.7      21.4          6.0         5,027.8    5.420.4       130.3     139.5           1.9
Goe.rnmnt                    41,494      53,486      34.7      33.2          6.5         4,752.5    4,848.0       123.2     127.4            .5
Total                       f620.232    1   -60,973  TO-O.-   100.0         7-.         -3 ,857.6   -3,8--       100o.0     100-O.0          .2
not applicaLble       - nil or negllgible             JJl Estimated actual disbursements             4/ Excluding government
not available        -- less than half the            .2/ Net of debt setvice
smallest unit shown            3/ Modern sector only



Page 4 Of 4 pages
CAMEROON
BALANCE OF PAYMENE, EXTZERAL ASSISTANCE AND DZBT PROJBCSTZ8
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Average Annual
Actual        Estimated                Projected                    Growth Rate
1971    a72    1973   1974   1975   1976   1977    1970   17     1        1975 - 19SO
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 309    340    533     693    648    766    937    1095   1228   1358        16.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                  S         7  4 520  6       71     943   1071   1217    1382   1566        14.6
Resource Balance (X-M)              -      -       13      3    -143   -177   -133    -122   -155   -207         7.7
Interest (net)                      - 5.5  -6     -11     -16   - 17   - 21   - 34   - 42    - 49   - 59        28.3
Direct Investment Income            - 1.7  -2     - 4.5  - 7.7-    8   -  8   - 11   - 15    - 21   - 28       28.5
Workers'Remittance                  -17.0  -21    -24     -33   - 34   - 39   - 45    - 52   - 59   - 68        14.9
Current Transfers (net)              15.5   15     11      20     24     30             38     41     44        12.9
Balance on Current Accounts         -     L     -               -      -215   -      -9                         12.4
Private Direct Investment            12    -25.6    4.6  -13.3 -   4     18     22     27      31     36      109.1
Official Capital Grants               7      6.8     7.2   13     24     26     28      31     34     37         9.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      28     72.4   51.5   60      78    118    150     191    253    317        32.4
-Repayments                       - 8    - 8.8  -12.4   -16   -18    -18    -24       32   -40    -60         27.2
Net Disbursements                    20     n .6    39.1  *fT   oT5      101   T9      159    213    257        33.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                       .      .       .      .      .      .       .      .
-Repayments                                    .      .       .      .      .      .       .
Net Disbursements                     .      .       .      .      .      .       .      .
Capital Transactions n.e.i.           2     11.8  -18.7   -44    32
Change in Net Reserves               11     42.6  -15.9     0    52
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Actual
Official Grants   Grant-like         33.6   25.0   41.9    47.8   77.0                                 1971   1972  1973  1974     1975
Public M&LT Loans                                                        DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
IBRD                                -      -     25.7    34.1    1.0   Public Debt Outs.&Disbursed   161.9 194.3 235.9 271.7     361.7
IDA                                 1.5   12.7   24.0     -     20.2
Other Multilateral                  3.6     .7    16.3    -      7.6     Interest on Public Debt        5.4   6.2   9.6  11.0     14.9
Repayments on Public Debt     7.4   9.1   14.9  13.5    20.1
Governments                         8.2   24.6    81.1  67.8    99.4     Total Public Debt Service    12.8   15.3  24.6  24.5     35.0
Suppliers                           3.0    4.8      l8   -       6.5     Other Debt Service (net)      ..     ..
Financial Institutions                    15.6     -    41.5    20.6     Total Debt Service (net)      ..     ..
Bonds                               -      -       -
Public Loans n.e.i.                 -      -       -             1.5   Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Total Public M&LT Loans              16.   T        .4    147.9 143.4 15T
Public Debt Service           4.1   4.5    4.6   3.5     5.4
Total Debt Service            ..    ..
Actual Debt Outstanding on               TDS + Direct _nvest.Inc.
December 31. 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT            Disbursed only      Percent  Total      Perc-en-  Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                  49.7            13.7     96.9        14.1      Int. as % Prior Year DO&D     4.1     3.8  4.9   4.7      5.5
IDA                         48.9            13.5     90.2        13.1      Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D 5.6       5.6  7.7   5.7      7.4
Other Multilateral          39.9            11.0     52.0         7.6
Governments                171.0            47.3    364.3        52.9    IBRD Debt Out.   Disbursed      7.7    13.8 23.1  28.7     49.7
Suppliers                    7.0             2.0     10.1         1.5          as % Public Debt O&D      4.8     7.1  9.8  10.6    13.7
Financial Institutions      43.7            12.0     73.1        10.6          as % Public Debt Service 3.9      6.5  5.7   8.6    10.6
Bonds                        -
Public Debts n.e.i.          1.4              .4      1.4           2    IDA   Debt Out.  Disbursed     11.0   18.4 30.1   34.1    48.9
Total Public M&LT Debt     361.7           100.0                100.0          as * Public Debt O&D      6.8     9.5 12.8  12.6    13.5
as % Public Debt Service    -     0.1  0.1   0.1      0.1
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
nDt applicable                           e   staff estimates
not available                            -  nil or negligible
...  not available separately                --  less than half the
but included in total                        smallest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                           Amount
Credit                                                     (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower   Purpose              Bank     TW      IDA /1   Undisbursed
Four Credits and six Loans have been fully        39.7              24.2        -
disbursed
161-CM   1969   Cameroon    Education                              11.7 /2   0.2
320-CM   1972   Cameroon    Education II                            9.0       6.3
429-CM   1973   Cameroon    Roads II                               24.0        -
429-1-CM 1976   Cameroon    Roads II                               15.0      12.1
935-CM   1973   Cameroon    Roads II              24.0                       24.0
983-CM   1974    Cameroon   Livestock             11.6                        7.7
1038-CM   1974   REGIFERCAM Railways               16.0                        0.4
1039-CM   1974   Cameroon    Cocoa                  6.5                        4.4
574-CM   1975    HEVECAM    Niete Rubber Project                   16.0      13.6
575-CM   1975   Cameroon    DFC - Small-Scale
Enterprises                           3.0       3.0
S4-CM   1976   REGIFERCAM Railways                2.3                        2.0
1245T-CM  1976    Cameroon   Education III                 17.0               17.0
657-CM   1976    Cameroon   Second Douala Port                     10.0 /3   10.0
1321-CM   1976   Cameroon    Second Douala Port    15.0 /3                    15.0
672-CM   1977    Cameroon   Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Development                       2.0 /3    2.0
TOTAL /4                        115.1    17.0     114.9    117.7
of which has been repaid        1.4     0.0       0.0
TOTAL now outstanding           113.7     17.0    114.9
Amount sold                 0.2
of which has been repaid   -    0.0
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /1                    113.7    17.0     114.9
TOTAL undisbursed                53.5     17.0     47.2    117.7
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1977)
Equity
311-CM   1975   BATA        Shoe Factory           .38
355-CM   1977   SAFACAM     Rubber Plantation      .80
1.18
Undisbursed      1.04
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/3   Not yet effective.
/4   The Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 673-CM, US$4.5 million) which
was signed on June 15, 1977 and the Second SOCAPALM Project (US$18.0
million Bank loan, and US$7.0 million Third Window loan), which has been
approved by the Board but has not yet been signed, are not included in
these totals.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1           First Education Project:  US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974); and US$1.2
million Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance programs.
In May 1975, a Supplementay Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to cover
cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all buildings
and delivery of virtually all furniture and equipment have been completed,
and project accounts are now being finalized. The project was well-managed,
particularly as project unit staff gained experience. A completion mission
which visited Cameroon in February 1977 found that project facilities are
generally well adapted to local requirements. Realization of educational
objectives has been less evident, due to the trend of enrollment to greatly
exceed capacity at project secondary schools and to fall short of capacity at
project primary teacher training colleges.
Cr. No. 229                  Douala Port Project:   US$1.5 million Credit of
January 14, 1971; Effectiveness Date: April 14,
1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974 (Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1973).
The Douala Port Project commenced in July 1972 and physical work
under the Credit was satisfactorily completed in November 1974. Covenants
and undertakings agreed during Credit negotiations were reasonably fulfilled,
but financial targets were not achieved. Remedial financial measures are
included in the Second Douala Port Project.
Cr. No. 320                  Second Education Project:   US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realign-
ments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, one
project school was transferred to the Third Education Project (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935     Second Highway Project:   US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976. Construction of the Douala-Pont du NKam road
(161 km) is slow and its completion is delayed by at least one year. Construc-
tion of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) is progressing well. The maintenance
study is being carried out and the Government has taken steps to hire technical
assistance for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture. The project has
considerably suffered from the 1973-1974 worldwide inflation, which nearly
doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to postpone
construction of the Garoua-Figuil road (98 km). A Supplementary Credit of
US$15.0 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the burden im-
posed on the Government by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                  Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although some
project components are behind schedule. The situation at two project ranches
continues to be very good and activities in the third started in December 1976
following an approved preliminary development program. The contract for the
construction of two abattoirs (in Yaounde and Douala) was signed in October
1976 but construction work has not started yet due to financial difficulties
confronting the contractor. Steps are being taken by the project authorities,
in consultation with the Bank, to remedy the situation. Thirty-two credits
have been disbursed and about forty-one credits are expected to be disbursed
during 1977. The first tsetse fly eradication campaign started in November
1976 as scheduled despite some start-up technical and budgetary difficulties.
It is about to be completed, having2freed about 1,600 km of pastureland.
The construction of the first 30 km anti-tsetse barrier is to start immedi-
ately after this year's spraying campaign.
Ln. No. 1038                 Second Railway Project:   US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.
Procurement of main project items has been satisfactory. The track
material was delivered and laid by December 1975, and delivery of rolling
stock was completed in 1976. Technical problems have been encountered with



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
the foundations of one of the piers for the Japoma bridge. Additional support-
ing measures as well as proposals for permanently monitoring the behavior of
the bridge and its piers are being prepared. The works are expected to be
completed by August, 1977. Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates during
project implementation, additional financing was required to cover the cost
of the equipment already ordered and of the reconstruction of the Japoma
bridge. Consequently, the railway has obtained a supplier's credit of
US$890,000 to supplement Bank financing for the rolling stock, and the for-
eign exchange cost of the consulting services (US$925,000) originally in-
cluded in this Second Railway Project has been transferred to the Third
Railway Project financed under Loan No. S-4. Due to the world slump in the
timber market and substantial increases in staff costs in 1974/75, REGIFERCAM
experienced difficulty in attaining the financial covenants included in the
Loan Agreement. The Second Railway Project financial targets were retained
for the Third Railway Project and the Government and REGIFERCAM have under-
taken to carry out the necessary measures, including tariff increases, to
achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging 12.4
percent has been implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and proposed tariff
increases as of July 1977, averaging 15 percent for passengers and 20 percent
for freight have been recently submitted for approval to the Government.
Measures to increase productivity and control operating costs have also been
initiated. REGIFERCAM is thus expected to achieve the agreed financial
targets.
Ln. No. 1039                 Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
SODECAO's management control and supervision of work at the sector
level is weak. Progress in the construction of infrastructure is now satis-
factory but arrangements for the maintenance of cocoa feeder roads are un-
certain. The overall success of the project is threatened because chemical
treatment against black pod is not carried out in the correct manner by
farmers. This is because under present marketing arrangements the returns
to labor required for correct treatment are not adequately covered by the
expected incremental yields. Furthermore, Governmemt requires exporters not
to purchase cocoa which has a defective bean content in excess of 40 percent.
This regulation, presently not adhered to, should be enforced. With the
strict enforcement of this regulation, an increase in producer price for Grade
1/2 would encourage correct protection and enable Government to pass on some
of the benefits of present and expected high world prices for export-quality
cocoa. These and other management problems wriich the Project is encountering
are currently being discussed with the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:  US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber estate has been steady;
plantings are on schedule and construction work ahead of schedule. Labor
hired locally has been more plentiful than anticipated and is sufficient
up to now; recruitment from other areas may become necessary soon. Collec-
tion of rubber seed is being improved, as unusually heavy rains have ham-
pered seed production. HEVECAM's Chairman has been appointed to an impor-
tant national position, and his resignation of the Chairman post should be
anticipated. The terms of reference for the regional master plan studies
have been drawn up.
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1975; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. After consider-
able delay, two expatriate advisors for the Banque Camerounaise de Developpe-
ment (BCD) have been recruited and assumed their positions in BCD. Commitment
of the first sub-projects is expected in 1977. The delivery of technical
assistance to entrepreneurs by the three agencies financed by UNDP under the
Project is progressing despite problems of interagency coordination.
Ln. No. 1245-T               Third Education Project:  US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from October 4 to
December 31, 1976, to allow for the signing of (a) the decree expanding
the responsibilities of the Project Unit, and (b) the contract between the
Government and the consulting architects. Satisfactory progress is being
made on the architectural design work, and agreement has been reached on
the preliminary drawings for the project schools. Following the Government's
decision subsequent to project appraisal to change the location of the two
upper secondary agricultural schools, a new site in Dschang has been se-
lected. The design work on most of the project schools is progressing
satisfactorily, but the design for the Institute for Higher Agricultural
Technician Training will be delayed by about 12 months due to the Govern-
ment's decision to change its location from Yaounde to Dschang.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Ln. No. S-4                  Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
Selection of consultants for the first phase study (feasibility
study) has been completed.   The final engineering study is expected to
start in end-1977.
Ln. No. 1321                 Second Douala Port Project:   US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                  Loan of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24, 1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981
and US$10.0 million Credit of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: June 15, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: January 24, 1977); Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction works started in December 1976.
Cr. 672                      Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Projected Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Selection of consultants is virtually completed and other measures
required for project implementation are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. 673                      Technical Assistance Project:   US$4.5 million
Credit of June 15, 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: September 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Measures required for Credit effectiveness and for project imple-
mentation are being taken.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
CAMEROON
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare
project: 10 months.
(b) Project prepared by RMWA and Government.
(c)  Project identified by a RMWA mission in November 1975.    Government
and Bank agreed to jointly prepare the project in January 1976.
First preparation mission in April 1976. Final preparatory work
in August 1976 and final report sent to Bank in end-September 1976.
(d) Departure appraisal mission: October 22, 1976.
(e) Negotiations completed: May 6, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 15, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
1.        The Western Africa Region's Agricultural Projects Management Unit
would assist in recruiting specialized consultants if requested by the Gov-
ernment. A supervision mission planned is immediately after Board approval
to review progress of measures required for project effectiveness and help
initiate planned activities.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Government would consult with IDA prior to implementing any
measures that would affect FONADER's administrative organization, opera-
tional policies, or financial resources so as to ensure that such measures
would not adversely affect the objectives and activities of the proposed
project (see para 27).
2.        Not later than December 31, 1977, FONADER, on behalf of FSAR,
would enter into operational arrangements satisfactory to IDA with each
of the ministries involved with the execution of the proposed project
(para. 34).
3.        All key expatriate project staff would be employed under terms
of reference and would have qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA. The Director, the Credit Manager, and the Accountant of FSAR would
be appointed after consultation with IDA (para. 35).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
4.        FSAR would submit annual project implementation programs and bud-
gets to IDA for approval, not later than December 31, 1977 for the first
year of project implementation and not later than April 30, for the fol-
lowing years (see para. 36).
5.        FSAR would introduce before March 31, 1978, a monitoring and report-
ing system satisfactory to IDA, and would be responsible for timely reporting
thereafter (see para. 36).
6.        Fully appraised and justified proposals for sub-projects to be fi-
nanced under the provision for unidentified sub-projects would be submitted
with all supporting documentation to IDA for approval (see para. 37).
7.        A surveillance mechanism to monitor the health situation and iden-
tify the need and feasibility of control actions would be set up by the Gov-
ernment health services in the small dams sub-project area. The Government
would set up such a surveillance mechanism not later than April 30, 1979
(see para. 38).
8.        Loans to farmers under the market gardening and stall fattening
sub-projects would be for four and two years, respectively, with a minimum
rate of interest of 10 percent per annum (see para. 43).
9.        The Government would implement a pilot cost recovery scheme.    By
June 30, 1980, the Government and IDA would review progress in the pilot
cost recovery scheme and discuss possible improvements (see para. 44).
10.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Development
Credit Agreement are that: (i) the Government has formally created the FSAR,
(ii) the FSAR Director and the Chief Operations Officer have been appointed,
and (iii) the Government has made an advance payment of CFAF 50 million
(US$200,000 equivalent) into the project account to set up a revolving
fund (see para. 52).



I BRD 12617
~~~~~ MALI                     IEHD
t  '   * a   t t>  c^<            M A L I ./ ~~~~~N I G E R  CHAD  UN
VOLTA                  AREA
9   \   2>* J ( y DJ             _ , t -z \           \ ~~~~~~~OF MAP f 
CAMEROON                                                                z :~NGEJ                      *(
CAMEROON I \ <' z dOjX  .J N, I G                                    E Ri  A  740 _-~ CENTRAL
RURAL  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~~~~~~~~AFRICAN
RURAL DEVElOPMENT Moa> MPR 2
FUND PROJECT                       ;                -AMEROON
\ (Fotokol                                         UIE
PROJECT     AREA                                                                 Gun sc       CONGO) Z AI R E
A |,-/VT/C     GABON     ,/
Project Area Boundary                                    it    N Djomeno                                     nap d
W     Project Management Unit                                                                      imply ai,dment or acceptance by the
O     Market Gardening (10 mile radius)                          ousseri                            World Bank and its affidiatem
Bottomland Development
o    Small Dams (10)
Stall Fattening                                                            0      30      60      90     120
Paved Roads                     &                                          KILOMETERS
Gravel Roads                 G                                          (0         20      40      60       80
-_-___  Earth Roads                                                            L   MILES
Marsh
-  Rivers                 To Bama
*    Chief Town in Department                           NATIONAL
Department Boundaries                              PARK
_._     International Boundaries
v , 1<t > r . 8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~C                      H      A      D
Bogo -' XMindif         Bongor
K     Y Q  y  X  <oagoua
Ji  8>.   (\  [     >           ~~~~~. toukoula /  X
*_\< <~~~~~  2  Ka      KelJ                   i 
>   t     ~~Guider Sj--j__
<; ,?~~6 T6oKRMO Jt>9zo Fionga 
FEBRUARY 1977



