Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4813 - IN 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Power System Development Project-III)  
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
POWERGRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED 
 
Dated May 2, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4813 - IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  May 2, 2006 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POWERGRID 
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B)  
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modification set out below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of the Guarantor on the 
goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if 
the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect 
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for 
Page  3
2
withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings for the purpose of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
“Core Project” means an Investment Project set out in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement that has been prepared by the Borrower in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Eastern Region” means the region of India comprising the States of 
Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, Sikkim and West Bengal; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Category” means category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures” means the 
environment and social policy and procedures set out in a Report of March 2005 
approved by the Borrower setting out, inter alia, the policies and procedures of carrying 
out environmental and social assessments of Investment Projects, preparing 
environmental mitigation plans, and where applicable, resettlement action plans and other 
development plans for people adversely affected as a result of the implementation 
thereof, carrying out consultations, processing and redressing grievances, and monitoring 
related impacts; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report" or “FMR” means the report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning 
on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
 
(h) 
“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement between India and the 
Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
Page  4
3
(i) 
“Investment Program” means the Borrower’s Investment Program setting 
forth its ten year investment program for the transmission sub-sector and other approved 
activities as such Program may be updated from time to time; 
 
(j) 
“Investment Project” means an Investment Project that meets the 
eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and to be carried out by the 
Borrower under Part A of the Project set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement utilizing the 
proceeds of the Loan; 
 
(k) 
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” means the Memorandum 
and Articles of Association of the Borrower as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“North Eastern Region” means the region of India comprising the States 
of Arunchal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Tripura; 
 
(m) 
“Northern Region” means the region of India comprising the States of 
Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar 
Pradesh,  and Uttranchal, and the Union Territory of Chandigarh; 
 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means  the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
October 31, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods  
(or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(o) 
“Report-based Disbursement” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(p) 
“Security Documents” means documents to be executed, inter alia, by the 
Borrower for purposes of providing the Bank a pari passu interest in the liens created on 
its assets as security for debt existing as of the date of this Agreement in order to equally 
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the 
Loan; 
 
(q) 
“Southern Region” means the region of India comprising the States of 
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu, and the Union Territory of 
Pondicherry; 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
 
(s) 
“Western Region” means the region of India comprising the States of 
Chattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, and the Union Territories 
of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu. 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred million dollars ($400,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: 
 
(i) 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
Page  6
5
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars, for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below  
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on  
March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
6
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project; Management and  
Operations of the Borrower 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and utilities practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Investment Projects to be carried out by the 
Borrower under Part A of the Project shall meet the eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 
6
to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, f
or
the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b)  
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.  
Page  8
7
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its costs 
and benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect the operations and financial condition of 
the Borrower and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project and each Investment Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i)  
have its records, accounts and financial statements (project 
balance sheets, sources and uses of funds and related statements) 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory 
to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report
–based Disbursement) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
Page  9
8
(ii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs (8) and (9) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03.  Without limitation to the Borrower’s obligation set out in  
Section 4.01, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain a financial management system, records and accounts 
and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition; 
 
(ii) 
 have the records and accounts audited for each Fiscal Year in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; and 
 
Page  10
9
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (i) of 
this Section, for such year, as so audited, and (B) a report of 
such audit by said auditors. 
 
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for th
e
Bank’s review and 
comments, not later than December 31 of each year, starting with December 31, 2006, its 
financial projections and an updated Investment Program covering the next ten Fiscal 
Years, including an adequate financing plan for implementing such Investment Program. 
 
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take 
all steps necessary to maintain its accounts receivable at a level not exceeding an amount 
equivalent to the proceeds of its transmission and other regulated services for the three 
preceding months. 
 
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
take all such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure and 
levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce, starting with the fiscal year beginning 
April 1, 2005 funds from internal cash generation equivalent to not less than twenty 
percent (20 %) of the annual average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred or 
expected to be incurred during the previous, current and following fiscal year. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(i) 
the term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between: A) the sum of gross revenues from all sources related 
to the Borrower’s operations, contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income, proceeds from sales of 
bonds issued in lieu of outstanding receivables, and any 
reduction in non-cash working capital; and (B) the sum of all 
expenses of the Borrower’s operations, including maintenance 
and administration (excluding depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), interest and other charges on debt (excluding 
interest financed under a loan contract), repayment of loans 
(including sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or payments 
in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other cash distributions of 
surplus, increase in non-cash working capital and any other cash 
outflows other than cash expenditures related to the operations of 
the Borrower; 
 
(ii) 
the term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed or capital assets, including interest charged 
to construction, related to the operations of the Borrower; 
 
Page  11
10 
 
(iii) 
“gross revenue” means the revenue earned and received for the 
services provided by the Borrower; 
 
(iv) 
“expenses” means the sum of all operating expenses, taxes on 
income and profits, depreciation and interest charged on all 
debentures, bonds and loans; 
 
(v) 
“operating expenses” means the cost of operation and 
maintenance, service management and administrative expenses, 
and all taxes accruing during the financial year, other than taxes 
on income and profits of the Borrower; 
 
(vi) 
“taxes on income and profits” consists of income taxes and other 
levies accrued by the Borrower according to the provisions of 
any legislation or regulation applicable in this respect; 
 
(vii) 
“depreciation” means the applicable provision on depreciation 
used to prepare the accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
agreement; and  
 
(viii) 
“interest charged on all debentures, bonds and loans” means all 
interest, excluding interest during construction, accrued by the 
Borrower during the fiscal year and all other charges on debt. 
 
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be 
greater than 4 to 1. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding pursuant 
to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date of the agreement providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that 
the guaranteed debt is outstanding. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
(iii) 
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities. 
 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, in terms 
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall 
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
A
RTICLE V 
 
Management and Operations of the Borrower 
 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental 
and utilities practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and utility practices; 
and 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers or make other provisions 
satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Borrower shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the financial condition or operation of the Borrower or its ability to 
perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Any Security Document shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Bank, or the Borrower shall have 
failed to enforce or implement any provision of any such Security Document. 
 
Page  13
12 
 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in paragraphs (a) or 
(b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Security Documents shall have been executed and 
any necessary registrations and filings thereof shall have been made in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and without any cost to it. 
 
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Security Documents have been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms and are adequate 
for the purpose for which they have been executed. 
 
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower or any other person designated by 
the Chairman in writing is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  14
13 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBRAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
      
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower:  
 
POWERGRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED 
B-9, Qutab Institutional Area 
Katwaria Sarai, New Delhi 110016 
 
Facsimile 
 
91-11-26560054 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
Michael 
F. 
Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
POWERGRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED 
 
By 
    /s/ 
R.P. 
Singh 
Authorized Representative 
Page  15
14 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A.  
General 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures 
 to be Financed
.
1. Works, 
installation 
and     erection, 
goods and 
consultants services. 
 
399,000,000 
 
100% 
.
2. Fee 
 
1,000,000 
 
Amounts due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
TOTAL 400,000,000 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $40,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Category 1 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 2005.  
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and 
works costing less than $25,000,000 equivalent per contract;  (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of 
Page  16
15 
 
consulting
 
firms under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, all
 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of
 
reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request
.
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
Page  17
16 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower  
of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  18
17 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the Eligible Category. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  19
18 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the Eligible Category. 
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  20
19 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is  to strengthen the transmission system in the 
power deficit regions of India and to increase inter-regional power transmission capacity.  
 
The Project, which supports the implementation of the FY 2006 
–
FY 2012 time 
slice of the Borrower’s Investment Program, consists of the following Parts, subject to 
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to 
time to achieve such objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Transmission system strengthening schemes
1.  
The implementation of Core Projects consisting of: 
 
(a) 
the construction and operation of a single circuit transmission line  
(765 kV) connecting Seoni and Bina in the Western Region, including related 
substations; 
 
(b)  
the construction and operation in the Western Region of a single circuit 
transmission line connecting Seoni to Wardha (765 kV – initially to be operated at 400 
kV), a double circuit transmission line connecting Wardha to Akola (400 kV) and a 
double circuit transmission line connecting Akola to Aurangabad (400 kV) including 
related substations; and 
 
(c) 
the construction and operation of a transmission line ( 500 kV HVDC) 
between Balia and Bhiwadi  in the Northern Region, including related substations. 
 
2.  
The implementation of additional Investment Projects included in the Borrower’s 
Investment Program. 
 
3. 
Provision of consultant services for:  
 
(a)   
enhancing inter-regional power exchange capacities of the Borrower, 
building a data base of the system and conducting studies on residual life assessment of 
equipment used in the Borrower’s operation;  
 
(b) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower to implement the 
Project; and 
 
(c) 
carrying out studies related to the power sector in India. 
 
Page  21
20 
 
Part B
:
Completion of Ongoing Activities
The completion of construction and subsequent operation of activities approved 
for financing under the Loan Agreement for the Second Powergrid System Development 
Project (Ln.4603-IN) relating to, inter-alia: (a) regional power system coordination and 
control facilities in the Eastern and Western Regions; (b) national load dispatch and 
control centre; (c) transmission system development Investment Projects; and (d) an 
Investment Project on telecommunication services.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2011. 
Page  22
21 
 
S
CHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
September 15, 2011 
9,630,000 
March 15, 2012 
9,835,000 
September 15, 2012 
10,050,000 
March 15, 2013 
10,265,000 
September 15,  2013 
10,485,000 
March 15, 2014 
10,710,000 
September 15, 2014 
10,940,000 
March 15, 2015 
11,175,000 
September 15, 2015 
11,415,000 
March 15, 2016 
11,660,000 
September 15, 2016 
11,915,000 
March 15, 2017 
12,170,000 
September 15, 2017 
12,430,000 
March 15, 2018 
12,700,000 
September 15, 2018 
12,970,000 
March 15, 2019 
13,250,000 
September 15, 2019 
13,535,000  
March 15, 2020 
13,825,000 
September 15, 2020 
14,125,000 
March 15, 2021 
14,425,000 
September 15, 2021 
14,735,000 
March 15, 2022 
15,055,000 
September 15, 2022 
15,380,000 
March 15, 2023 
15,710,000 
September 15, 2023 
16,045,000 
March 15, 2024 
16,390,000 
September 15, 2024 
16,745,000 
March 15, 2025 
17,105,000 
September 15, 2025 
17,470,000 
March 15, 2026 
17,855,000  
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 
of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  23
22 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultant’s Services 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
:
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
:
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the additional provisions agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
2. Direct 
Contracting
:
Goods which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured on 
the basis of Direct Contracting in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.6 and 3.7 of 
the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Page  24
23 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultant Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under Part A.3 of the Project which meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of 
 
paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 
through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole 
source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (i) The first contracts 
Page  25
24 
 
under Seoni-Wardha and Akola-Aurangabad transmission system for (a) Tower Package; 
(b) Conductor Package; (c) Insulator Package; and (d) Sub Station package, estimated to 
cost USD 7.5 million and above per contract; (ii) the first contract for Seoni-Bina 
transmission system for Tower Package; (iii) the contract for HVDC Terminal at Balia 
and Bhiwadi and first contracts for (a) 500 kV HVDC bipole; (b) ACR Lapwing & 
Moose Conductor and (c) 210 kN HVDC & 
120
kN AC Insulator packages under “2500 
MW HVDC” Bipole along with Bipole Convertor Stations Project; (iv) all subsequent 
contracts for goods and works estimated to cost $ 25 million equivalent or more per 
contract or which has been recommended for award costing $25,000,000 equivalent or 
more per contract; and (v) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
 
or more and contracts on single source 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract. In addition, the record 
of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for 
each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank as per paragraphs 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
25 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower shall, in accordance with 
procedures and methodology satisfactory to the Bank, prepare a detailed Project 
Implementation Plan covering matters including project design, land requirements, 
detailed engineering, technology used, cost estimates, construction arrangements and the 
eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
When presenting an Investment Project to the Bank for approval, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the Project Implementation Plan of the Investment Project 
prepared in accordance with paragraph (1) of this Schedule including a description of the 
financing arrangements for the Investment Project and the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, evidence that the Investment Project meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the proposed contractual and 
other arrangements for implementing the Investment Project, and such other information 
as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
3. 
No expenditures for works, goods or services required for an Investment Project 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Investment 
Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than twelve months prior to the date on which the Bank shall have 
received the information required under paragraph 2 of this Schedule in respect of such 
Investment Project. 
 
4.
 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
 carry out the Investment Projects approved for financing pursuant to the 
provision of paragraph (2) of this Schedule in accordance with: 
 
(i) 
technical specifications and standards satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
the objectives, policies, principles, entitlement framework and 
time schedule of the environmental mitigation plan, the 
resettlement action plan, and other development plan for 
adversely affected people formulated pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 5 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and 
 
(iii) 
the Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures; 
 
(b) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, not initiate any physical work 
for implementing an Investment Project unless all required land acquisition in respect 
thereof as maybe specified in the resettlement action plan referred to in clause (a) (ii) of 
this paragraph 4 has been completed in  a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
Page  27
26 
 
(c) 
not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures or any of the plans referred to in clause 
(a) (ii) of this paragraph without the prior written approval of the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall carry out the completion of the remaining activities approved 
for financing under the Loans referred to in Part B of the Project in accordance with 
technical specifications and standards satisfactory to the Bank, and such other procedures 
and arrangements as the Bank shall specify, including carrying out environmental 
mitigation measures and resettlement and rehabilitation of affected people in accordance 
with the Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall complete Investment Projects approved for financing by the 
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and 
for such purpose shall provide or procure all financing required to cover any changes in 
the financing plan for such Investment Project. 
 
7. The 
Borrower: 
 
(a) 
shall maintain an adequate organizational structure with functions, 
powers, staff and resources, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the Environmental 
and Social Policy and Procedures for the Project; and 
 
(b) 
unless the Bank otherwise agrees, shall not waive, amend, modify, 
abrogate or repeal the Environmental and Social Policy Procedures or any provision 
thereof. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
monthly reports on collection and billing within 15 days of the end of 
each month beginning with the month following the month in which the Effective Date 
falls; and 
 
(b) 
quarterly reports setting out the progress of the Project to the end of the 
quarter covered by the report, such report to be furnished within 30 days of the end of 
each quarter beginning with the quarter following the quarter in which the Effective Date 
falls. 
 
9. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
Page  28
27 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, by October 31, 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
 
Page  29
28 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that an 
Investment Project in respect of which the Bank approval is sought pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement meets the eligibility criteria 
set out in the following Parts: 
 
1. 
The Investment Project is technically and operationally justified and has been 
formulated after taking into account other alternative investments. 
 
2. 
The Investment Project is based on least cost options and is included in the 
Borrower’s overall least cost Investment Program, and is economically and financially 
justified in the context of such Program. 
 
3. 
The appropriate authorities of the Guarantor have provided the required 
clearances/approvals for implementing the Investment Project, including environmental 
and forest clearances, as applicable, prior to initiation of construction in those relevant 
segments of such Investment Project for which environmental and forest clearances are 
required . 
 
4. 
The Investment Project has adequate financing and procurement plans. 
 
5. 
The Investment Project complies with the Environmental and Social Policy and 
Procedures and towards that end, the Borrower has carried out an environmental and 
social impact assessment for that Investment Project and prepared an environmental 
mitigation plan, and where applicable, a resettlement action plan or other development 
plan containing objectives, policies, principles, entitlement framework and time 
schedules for mitigating the adverse impacts in accordance with the Environmental and 
Social Policy and Procedures, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Investment Project shall be for the strengthening of the transmission system 
and inter-regional power exchange for the national grid. 
 
7. 
Such additional criteria as may be specified by the Bank for each additional 
Investment Project other than the Core Projects. 
 
