                                              E l065
                                               VOL. 8


FINAL ENVIRONMENTASSESSMENTREPORT (FEAR)

                         OF

SEUNf-BWA 765KV S !TNRANSMISSOM LINE




    ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIALMANAGEMENT

  POWER GRID CORPORATION OF INDIA L.TD.
          ( A GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ENTERPRISE )


                                   CONTENTS

                                                                  Page #



SECTION I : PRO.IECT DESCRIPTION

            -- BACKGROUND

            -  BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
               SCOPE OF WORK


SECTION II: BASE LINEDATA

            -  MADHYA PRADESH
            -  ECOLOGICAL RESOURCES

SECTION Ill: POLICY, LEGAL & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK

            -
            -  ENVIRONMENTAL
               SOCIAL


SECTION IV: MAJOR FEATURESOF FINAL ROUTE & ENV. IMPACT

            -  ROUTE SELECTION
            - 765 KV SEONI-BINA LINE
            -   DETAILS OF FOREST INVOLVEMENT
            -  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MATRIX



SECTION V: POTENTIAL ENV. IMPACT, EVALUATION & ITS MANAGEMENT

            -  IMPACT DUE TO PROJECT LOCATION
            -  ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEM DUE TO DESIGN
            -  ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS DURING CONSTRUCTION
            -  ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS RESULTING FROM OPERATION
            -  CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTA REVIEW CRITERIA
            -  PUBLIC CONSULTATION
            -  CONCLUSION

SECTION VI: MONITORING & ORGANISATIONALSUPPORT STRUCTURE

            -  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING IN POWERGRID
            -  ENVIRONMENT REVIEW



ENCLOSURES:

            Annexure-1-12


1 SECTlON   [:PROJECT DESCRlPTlON(Seoni-Bina765 K\ITransmissionSystem )

  1.0 BACKGROUND:

       In India, major energy resources for electrical power are concentrated in
       Eastern Region (mainly thermal resources) and North-Eastem Region (rn~ainly
       hydro resources), whereas power demand is spread all over the country. To
       transfer power from these resource-rich Regions to distant part of the country,
       it is envisaged to develop high capacity National Grid by interconnecting
        Eastern, Northern and Western Regions through high capacity transrrlission
       links. In this direction, 2x765 kV Sipat - Seoni lines are being constructed as a
        part of transmission system associated with Sipat stage-l generation project.
       This corridor shall also be used to transfer power imported at Sipat from
        Eastern Region projects through Ranchi-Sipat 400kV Dlc line, planned with
        Eastern Region generation projects. To disperse power from Seoni to
        Northern part of Western Region and to complete the transmission corridor of
        National Grid in Western Region, Seoni-Bina 765 kV line has been envisaged.

  1.1   BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT:

       The objective of this line is to connect major load centre in Northern part of
        N1.P. to power pool point at Seoni as well as to complete the 765kV kk' ring
        interconnecting Eastern, Western and Northern Regions as part of
        development of National grid. This will help export of surplus power from
        Eastern Region to Western & Northern Regions and strengthen the
        transmission system within Western Region for secure & reliable supply of
        power.

  1.2    PROJECT DESCRIPTION

        In Western Region, Seoni, in the central part of Madhya Pradesh is being
        developed as a major power pooling station at 765kV level. Seoni shall be
        directly connected with Sipat generation complex through two (02) nos. 765kV
        line between Sipat and Seoni. Also, power from Kahalgaon-ll generation
        project in Eastern Region would be imported at Sipat generation complex
        which would be transferred to Western Region beneficiaries mainly through
        Seorli substation. In this way, Sipat-Seoni would be a major transmission
        corridor in Western Region (WR) over which large quantum of power would
        flow. To disperse power to different load centres in WR from Seoni onwards,
        there is a necessity to develop transmission corridor of adequate capacity to
        meet the immediate as well as future requirement.

        A high capacity 765kV line between Bina and Gwalior is proposed, as a part
        of Sipat-ll Transmission system to s~~pplypower towards Gwalior area. The
        interconnection at Gwalior would be further extended upto Agra by a 765kV
        link for power exchange between Western and Northern Regions as a part of
        transmission system of Kahalgaon-It generation project. Therefore, Seoni-
        Bina along with Bina-Gwalior-Agra line would be a part of 765kV ring


     FEAR: Seoni-Bina 765 KV SIC                                                    1

        interconnecting ER, NR and WR. In this way, this transmission line would
        enable exchange of power between NR and WR.

        In addition, a parallel transmission corridor between eastern part of the region
        and Gujarat in western part of the region is being developed through 400kV
        Bina-Nagda - Dehgam line. The Seor~i-Binaline would intercorlnect the two
        parallel transmission corridors between eastern and western part of WR. In
        case of outage of lines in any one of these corridors, the Seoni - Bina inter-
        connection would provide alternate path for power transfer from eastern part
        to western part of WR.

        Considering above network configuration and long-term power transfer
        requirement from eastern part of the region towards western part, construction
        of 765kV Seoni - Bina SICline is proposed. This shall develop a high capacity
        transmission corridor right from Seoni towards Gujarat as well as towards
        northern part of M.P. It would also facilitate development of transmission
        corridor between Agra in NR and Seoni in WR.

        The Transmission line has been designed with 765kV parameters whereas
        the associated bay extension would be at 400kV level. This type of
        construction has been designed as the transmission line is a part of 765kV
        ring interconnecting ER-NR-WR. The power flow over this corridor would
        progressively increase with more generation addition in ER and NER having
        beneficiariesin WR. As the power flow over this line initially would be less, the
        operation of the line has been proposed at 400kV level initially. This would
        defer the investment for 765kV equipment and would conserve the Right-of-
        Way (ROW). With the increase in power flow requirement in future, the line
        shall be operated at 765kV level.




                                       US $ 79.41 million (including IDC)


       Scope of work
        Transmission Lines
        (i) Seoni-Bina 765kVSIC (initiallyto be operated at 400kV)-292 km.
        Substations:

        Extension of existing 800 KV substationat Seoni and 400 KV at Bina
        (Not in the scope of The World Bank funding to be funded by POWERGRID).


        A power map showing the transmission grid of Western Region highlighting
        the above scope of works is placed at Exhibit-I.



-2-* FEAR: Seoni-Bina765
-?-                     KV SIC

    ISECTION   11: BASE LINE DATA

2.0  The project is located in the State of Madhya Pradesh in India. The basic details of
     the area under project are given below:

2.1 MADHYA PRADESH:


     PHYSIOGRAPHY: Madhya Pradesh as its name implies, lies in the heart of India.lt
     consists of a geographical area of 3,08,300 sq. km which constitutes 9.38% of the
     land area of the country & bordering the states - Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,
     Maharashtra, Gu'arat and Rajasthan. It lies between lat.21° 04'&26O 52'IV and
                       d
     long.740 02' & 82 49' E.


     Climate: The climatic condition is generally Sub-Tropicalwet and dry. MP state has
     three main seasons:

            Winter (November through February);
            Summer (March through May); and
            Monsoon season (June through September).

     Temperature: During the winter average temperatures range from 10" to 27" C.
     Summers are hot, with an average temperature of 29" C and a high temperature that
     at times reaches 48" C. During the monsoon season temperatures average 19" to
     30" C.

     Rainfall: Annual rainfall tends to decrease from south to north and from east to
     west. The average rainfall in the different regions of the state ranges from 450 to
     900 mm.      The annual mean total rainfall recorded at Ujjain is 934.1 mm (1960 -
     1980 data period) with almost 45 rainy days. The heaviest rainfall in 24 hour:; has
     been recorded as 239 mm at Ujjain.

     Wind: The mean wind speed at Ujjain is 10 kmlhr though the wind speeds are
     normally recorded to exist between 4 kmlhr to 20 kmlhr.

     Soil: Red, Yellow and black soils are generallyavailable in the state.

     Mineral Resources: Madhya Pradesh is one of the major mineral producing states
     of the country. It has large deposits of a variety of minerals. Important among them
     are bauxite, copper, manganese, coal, dolomite and limestone.

     Water Resources: The important rivers of the state are Charnbal, the Betwa, the
     Sone and the Narmada.
                                                                                             - .

     Ecological Resources: The forest cover of the state based on the satellite data of
     October-December, 1999, is 77,265 Sq. km. which constitutes 25.07% of the


     2FEAR:Seoni   -Bina765 KV SIC                                                    3

geographic area (Map-I). Out of these dense forest accounts for 44,384 sq.km.
having crown density of more than 40% and open or degraded forest of
32,881 sq.km. having crown density ranging between 10-40%. By legal status
Reserve Forest constitutes 61.69%, Protected Forest 37.36% and unclassified
Forest 0.95%. The forests are the main source of supply of fodder and fuel and
subsistence for the poorest sections of the people and tribal population in the interior
under-developed areas of the state. There are four forest types:
.
...    Tropical Moist Deciduous
       Tropical Dry Deciduous
       Tropical Thorn and
       Sub Tropical Broadleaved Hill Forests.

Forests are largely distributed in central, sol-lthernand eastern parts of the undivided
state of Madhya Pradesh. Northern and western parts of the state are deficient in
forest vegetation. Teak and Sal are the two most important forest formations of the
state, covering 18.0% and 16.7% forest area, respectively while miscellaneous
forests cover 65.3%. Madhya Pradesh forest reserves are logged for Teak, Sat,
Barr~booand Salai. These forests catered to the needs of the people and cattle for
generations, largely because they contained good cropping species. However,
population explosion and developmental needs have exerted a steadily increasing
demand on the ever-diminishing extent of forests. Over-exploitation resulted in
reduction of area under forests. The maximum forest cover is recorded in the district
Sheopur having 56.75% of forest cover and minimum in the Ujjaindistrict having only
0.61%.    There are IINational Parks (NP) and 32 Wild Life Sanctuaries in the state
however the Kanha tiger reserve in Jabalpur district is the most important National
Park of the state.


The lines of proposed transmission system shall pass through mainly five district of
this state having forest cover ranging from 25 % to 38 %. It may be noted from the
table below that in all five districts the forest cover is a good mixture of both dense
and openldegraded forest nature this warrant extra precaution in routing of line
through forest area. Details of forest cover of these districts are as follows:

                                                                     In sa. Km.


                                                                               %forest
                                                                               Cover
     District        Geographic Dense             open forest       Total
                         area      forest

-
Seoni
Narshimhapur             51133          812           500
Chindwara              11,815           2,631         1,864
Raisen                  8,466           1,589         1,107
Sanar                  10.252           1.292         1.525




.-e.
-!% FEAR: Seoni-Bina 765 KVSIC

1SECTlON Ill: POLICY, LEGAL & REGULATORYFRAMEWORK

 3.0  POWERGRID'Sactivities by their inherent nature and flexibility have negligible
      impacts on environmental and social attributes.         Indian laws relating to
      environmental and social issues have strengthened in the last decade both
      due to local needs and international commitments. POWERGRIDundertakes
      its activities within the purview of Indian laws keeping in mind appropriate
      international obligations and directives and guidelines with respect to
      environmental and social considerationsof Funding Agencies.

 3.1  ENVIRONMENTAL

 3.1.1 MANDATORY REQLIIREMENTS(NATIONAL)

       MOP orderlsanction under The ElectricityAct, 2003:
       Sanction of MOP, GO1 is a mandatory requirement for taking up any new
       transmission project under the section 68(1) of The Electricity Act, 2003. The
       sanction authorize POWERGRID to plan and coordinate activities to
       commission the new project. Electricity act does not explicitly deal with
      environmental implications of activities related to power transmission.
       However, POWERGRID always integrates environmental protection within its
       project activities.


      Forest Clearance Under The Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980
       When transmission projects pass through forest land, clearance has ,to be
       obtained from relevant authorities under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.
       This Act was enacted to prevent rapid deforestation and environmental
       degradation.     State governments cannot de-reserve any forest land or
       authorize its use for any non-forest purposes without approval from the
       Cen.tral government.     POWERGRID projects, when involving forest areas,
       undergo detailed review and approval procedures to obtain a Forest
       Clearance certificate from MOEF, Government of India before starting any
       construction activity in designated forest area.

      Environmental Clearancesunder Environment (Protection) Act,1986
       Since transmission line projects are environmentally clean and do not involve
       any disposal of solid waste, effluents and hazardous s~~bstancesin land, air
       and water they are kept out of the purview of Environment (Protection) Act,
       1986. However, the recent amendment in the Environment (Protection) Act,
       1986 made it necessary to obtain clearance from MoEF for power
       transmission projects in two districts in the Aravalis (viz., Alwar in Rajasthan
       and Gurgaon in Haryana). The Aravali range, in these two areas, is heavily
       degraded, hence, any industrial activity there becomes critical. Environme~it
       Impact Notification, 1994 lays down specific project categories that require
       clearance from MoEF Power transmissionprojects are not included in this list.



 -,-.
 %FEAR:Seoni-Bina  765 KVSIC

      Batteries(Managementand Handling) Rules, 2001:
      MOEF vide its notification dt. 1 6 May, ~ ~ 2001 under the section of 6,8 and 25
      of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 has put certain restriction on
      disposal of used batteries and its handling. As per the notification it is the
      responsibility of bulk consumer (POWERGRID) to ensure that used batteries
      are not disposed of, in any manner, other than by depositing with the
      dealerlmanufacturerlregistered recyclerlimporterlreconditioner or at the
      designated collectioncenters - and to file half yearly return in prescribed form
      to the concerned State Pollution Control Board.

·     Hazardous Wastes (Managementand Hand1ing)AmendmentRules, 2003:
      MOEF vide its notification dt. 2othMay, 2003 under the section of 6, 8 and 25
      of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 has put used mineral oil under the
      category of hazardous waste which require proper handling and disposal. As
      per the notification, all used oil is to be auctioned1sold to registered recyclers
      only and file annual return on prescribed form to the concerned State Pollution
      Control Board.

      Ozone Depleting Substances(Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000:
      MOEF vide its notification dt. 17th~uly,2000 under the section of 6, 8 and 25
      of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 has notified rules for regulation
      /control of Ozone Depleting Substances under Montreal Protocol adopted on
      16th September 1987. As per the notification certain control and regulation
      has been imposed on manufactl-ring, import, export and use of these
      compound. POWERGRID is following provisions of notification and is phasing
      out all equipment which uses these substances and planning to achieve CFC
      free organizationin near future.

·     The BiologicalDiversity Act, 2002:
      Under the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity signed at Rio de
      Janeiro on the 5th day of June, 1992 of which India is also a party, MoEF has
      enacted the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 to provide for conservation of
      biological diversity, sustainable use of its components and fair and equitable
      sharing of .the benefits arising out of the use of biological resources,
      knowledge and for matters connected therewith. As per the provision of act
      certain area which are rich in biodiversity and encompasses unique and
      representative ecosystems are identified and designated as Biosphere
      Reserve to facilitate its conservation. All restrictions applicable to protected
      areas like NationalPark & Sanctuaries are also applicable to these reserves.
      POWERGRIDwill abide by the provision of act wherever applicableand try to
      totally avoid these biosphere reserves while finalizing the route alignment.

3.1.2   FUNDING AGENCIES:

      WB Operational Policies (OP) 4.011ADB's Operations Manuals (OM)- FIIBP
      and JBlC Environmental Guidelines: These outlines funding agencies policy


   FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC                                                      6

     and     procedures      for  enviro~imental assessment       (EA)   of  different
     developmental projects. All these guidelines classified developmental projects
     into three categories (A-C) based on its possible environmental and social
     impacts though WB & ADB has another category F l applicable only to
     projects involving a credit line through a financial intermediary.

     Transmission line projects are categorized as category-B project having
      limited impact that can be further rr~inimizedthrough mitigativelmanagement
     measures and would normally require only an environmental review.
      POWERGRID takes remedial measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or
     compensate for adverse impact and improve environmental performance.
     Environment Assessment will take account the natural environment, human
     health and safety, and social aspects and trans- boundary and global
     environmental aspects. During EA process public is also informed at every
     stage of project execution and their views are considered during decision-
     making process.


3.1.3 PRESCRIPTIVEFRAMEWORK (NATIONAL)

              Constitutional Guarantees

             Applicable Legislations


3.1.4 RELEVANT POLICIES

             National ConservationStrategy and Policy Statement
              on Environmentand Development, 1992

             Policy statement for Abatement of pollution, 1992

3.2.0 SOCIAL


3.2.1 MANDATORYREQUIREMENTS (NATIONAL)

      National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation for Project Affected
      Families: Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India has notified a
      National policy on R&R for Project Affected Families (PAFs) in Feb'04
      applicable to all developmental projects where 500 or more families enmass
      in plain areas or 250 or more families enmass in hilly areas are displaceddue
      to project activity. It essentially addresses the need to provide succour tlo the
      assetless rural poor, support the rehabilitation efforts of the resources and
      provide a broad canvas for an effective consultation between PAFs and
      authorities responsible for their R&R. It has also listed R&R measures and
      entitlements for different category of PAFs. Though the National policy as
      such is not applicable to POWERGRID because transmission projects do not
      involve displacement of such a large numbers of families since land required
      for substations is quite small. However, the entitlement benefits listed in the

-
cg
   FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC                                                     7

      National policy for PAFs have been adopted by POWERGRID in its "Social
      Entitlement Framework" that is being implemented wherever land acquisition
      for substationsis ~~ndertaken.

      Rights of Way And CompensationUnder ElectricityAct,2003:
      The act has a provision for notifying transrr~issioncorrlpany under section 164
      (B) to avail benefits of eminent domain provided under the Indian Telegraph
      Act, 1885. MOP, GO1 vide gazette notification dt 23rd Dec'03 had already
      notified POWERGRID under this section of said act. Therefore, for the
      purpose of placing of any wires, poles, etc., POWERGRIDhas all the powers
      that the telegraph authority possesses. Thus, POWERGRID can erect and
      construct towers without actually acquiring the land. However, all damages
      due to POWERGRID activity are compensated at market rate. Power
      transmission schemes are always planned in such a way that the power of
      eminent domain is exercised responsibly.

      Provisions Under Land Acquisition Act, 1894, as amended in 1984:
      When land is acquired for sub-stations, POWERGRID will follow procedures
      laid down under the Land Acquisition Act (LA Act), 1894. POWERGRIDsub-
      stations have never resulted in large scale displacement or loss of livelihoods.
      There have been only marginal impacts due to flexibility exercised by
      POWERGRIDin selecting sites. The LA Act specifies that in all cases of land
      acquisition, no award of land can be made by the government authorities
      unless all compensationhas been paid.

3.2.2 FUNDING AGENCIES

      For POWERGRID, mandatory requirements vis-a-vis Funding Agencies are
      comprehensive Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) guidelines and an
      entitlement framework as per World Bank Operational Directives 4.30 (OP-
      4.12) and 4.20 and ADB's Operations Manual OM-F2lBP.


       WorldBank OD 4.30 (OP-4.12): InvoluntaryResettlement:
      This directive describes Bank Policy and procedures on involuntary
      resettlement as well as conditions that borrowers are expected to meet during
      operations involving resettlement of affected groups. It requires a entitlement
      framework aimed at restoration, replacement and participation of affected
      groups. A detailed social assessment and development of an action plan
      having list of measures for bettermentlrestoration of lost assetslincome is
      required to be submitted to bank before start of project work. However where
      only a few people (e.g. about 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated at a
      particular location, appropriate compensation for assets, logistical support for
      moving and a relocation grant may be the only requirements but the principle
      on which compensationis to be based will remain same as for larger groups.




ce..
&FEAR:Seoni-Bina765KVSIC

       World Bank OD 4.20: Indigenous People (IP):
         This directive describes World Bank policies and procedures for projects that
       affect indigenous people. The objective is to ensure that developmentbenefits
        are socially and culturally compatible and that the IPSare consulted. Thus, the
        lndigenous People Development PlanlTribal Development Plan is to be
        prepared as a prerequisite. POWERGRID will not only incorporate the IP
        corr~ponentwhenever necessary, but will also pay attention to marginalized
        groups such as women, children, etc.

        ADB Operations Manual -F2lBP: Involuntary Resettlement:
        The OP describes Bank Policy and procedures on involuntary resettlement as
        well as conditions that borrowers are expected to meet during operations
        involving resettlement. Its objective is to avoid such resettlement as far as
        possible if unavoidable measures like assistance to affected persons for
        restoration of their assetsllivelihood as would have been in the absence of
        project. It also classified project into three categories like category-A where
        resettlementis significant and involve physical displacement of more than 200
        persons, which require a detailed resettlement plan. Category-B where
        resettlement is not that significant and requires a short resettlement plan.
        Category-C where no resettlement of peoples are foreseen and neither
        require resettlement plan nor a resettlementframework.


        POWERGRID emphasizes that displacement is not an issue with
        transmission projects because land below towerlline is not acquired and only
        a small piece of land is required for substations. However, all affected
        personslfamilies shall be provided compensation and rehabilitationassistance
        along with other measures as per POWERGRID's social entitlement
        framework which is based on these directiveslmanuals and National R&R
        Policy to restore incomellivelihood of all affected persons.

3.2.3    PRESCRIPTIVE FRAMEWORK (NATIONAL)

               ConstitutionalGuarantees

               National and State-wide Laws and Policies Relating
                to Land Acquisition and Issues of R&R

              Madhya Pradesh Pariyojana Ke Karan Visthapit Vyakti (Punsthapan)
              Adhiniyam, 1985

              Maharashtra Project Affected persons Rehabilitation Act, 1986


3.2.4 RELEVANT POI-ICIES

               The Orissa Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected
               Persons Policy, 1994 (water resources projects)

               Resettlement & RehabilitationPolicy- NTPC

:$$:
     FEAR: Seoni-Bina 765 KV SIC

I SECTION-IV:   MAJOR FEATURESOF FINAL ROUTE & ENVIRONMENTALIMPACT                       I

4.0  ROUTE SELECTION

     Environmental impact of transmission line projects are not far reaching and are
     mostly localized to ROW. However, transmission line project has some affects
     on natural and socio-cultl- re resources. These impacts can be minimized by
     careful route selection. To lninirrlize these possible impact POWERGRID at the
     system planning stage itself try to avoid ecological sensitive areas like forest
     Exhibit-2.     Wherever such infringements are substantial, different alternative
     options are considered to select most viable route alignment. For further
     optimization of route modern survey techniquesltools like GIs, GPS aerial
     photography are also applied. Introduction of GIs and GPS in route selection
     res1.11tin access to updatedllatestinformation, through satellite images and further
     optimization of route having minimal environmental impact. Moreover, availability
     of various details, constraints like topographical and geotechnical details, forest
     and environmental details etc. help in planning the effective mitigative measures
     including engineeriug variations depending upon the site situationllocation. The
     route1site selection criteria followed by POWERGRIDis detailed below:


 4.1 Environmental Criteria for Route Selection

     For selection of optimum route, the following points are taken into consideration:

     (i)    The route of the proposedtransmission lines does not involve any human
            rehabilitation.

     (ii)   Any monument of cultural or historical importance is not affected by the
            route of the transmissionline.


     (iii)  The proposed route of transmission line does not create any threat to the
            survival of any community with special reference to Tribal Community.


     (iv)   The proposed route of transmissionline does not affect any public utility
            services like playgrounds,schools, other establishmentsetc.

     (v)    The line route does not pass through any sanctuaries, National Park etc.

     (vi)   The line route does not infringe with area of natural resources.

     In order to achieve this, POWERGRID undertakes route selection for individual
     transmission lines in close consultation with representatives from the Ministry of
     Environment and Forests and the Department of Revenue. Although under
     National law POWERGRID has right of eminent domain yet alternative
     alignments are considered keeping in mind the above-mentioned factors during
     site selection, with minor alterations often added to avoid environmentally
     sensitive areas and settlements at execution stage.



   2FEAR:  Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC                                                     10

As a rule, alignments are generally cited 10-15 km away from major towns,
whenever possible, to account for future urban expansion Exhibit-3.
Similarly, forests are avoided to the extent possible, and when it is not possible, a
route is selected in consultation with the local Divisional Forest Officer, that
causes minimum damage to existing forest resources.
Alignments are selected to avoid wetlands and unstable areas for both financial
and environmental reasons.

In addition, care is also taken to avoid National parks and sanctuaries and any
other forest area rich in wild life.

Keeping above in mind the routes of line under this transmission System has
been so aligned that it takes care of above factors. As such different alternatives
were studied with the help of Govt. published data like Forest atlas, Survey of
India top0 maps etc. to arrive at most optimurr~route which can be taken up for
detailed survey using GISIGPS and assessment of environmental & social
impacts for their proper management (Annexure-I).

Similarly the TOR for detailed survey using modern tool like GISIGPS also
contained parameters to avoidlreduce environmental impact while deciding the
final route alignment. The major objectives for detailed survey that are part of
contract are summarized below:


(vii)  The alignment of transmission line shall be most economical from the point

       of view of construction and maintenance.

(viii) Routing of transmission line through protected the reserved forest

       area should be avoided. In case it is not possible to avoid the forest

       or areas having large trees completely then keeping in view of the

       overall economy, the route should be aligned in such a way that

       cutting of trees is minimum.

(ix)   The route should have minimum crossing of major river, railway

       lines, and national/state high ways, overhead EHP power lines and

       communication lines.

(x)    The number of angle point shall be kept to a minimum.

(xi)   The distance between the terminal points specified shall be kept shortest

       possible, consistent with the terrain that is encountered.

(xii)  Marshy and low line areas, river beds and earth slip zones shall be

       avoided to minimum risk to the foundations.

(xiii) It would be preferable to utilize level ground for the alignment.




FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC

  (xiv)   Crossing of power line shall be minimum. Alignment will be kept at a

          minimum distance of 300 meters from power lines to avoid induction

          problems on the lower voltage lines.

  (xv)    Crossings of communication lines shall be minimized and it shall be

          preferably at right angle, proximity and paralyses with telecom lines shall

          be eliminated to avoid danger of induction to them.

  (xvi) Area subjected to flooding searchesstreams shall be avoided.

  (xvii) Restricted areas such as civil and military airfield shall be avoided.

          Care shall also be taken to avoid the aircraft landing approaches.

  (xviii) All alignment should be easily accessible both in dry and rainy

          seasons to enablemaintenancethroughout the year.

  (xix) Certain areas such as query sites, tea, tobacco and saffironfields and

          rich plantation, gardens and nurseries that will present the owner

          problems in acquisition of right of way and way leave clearance

          during construction and maintenanceshould be avoided.

  (xx)    Angle point should be selected such that shifting of the point within 100 m

          radius is possible at the time of construction of the line.

  (xxi) The line routing should avoid large habitation densely populated

          areas to the extent possible

  (xxii) The area requires special foundations and those prone to flooding should

          be avoided

  (xxiii) For examination of the alternatives and identification of the most

          appropriate route, besides making use of information/data/details

          available/extracted through survey of India topographical maps and

          computer aided processing of NRSA satellite imagery, the contractor shall

          also carry out reconnaissance/preliminarysurvey as may be required for

          the verification and collection of additional information/data/details.

  (xxiv) The contractor shall submit his preliminary observation and suggestion

          along with various information/data/details collected and also processed

         satellite imagery data, topographical map data marked with alternative

         routes etc.      The final evaluation of the alternative routes shall be

         conducted by the contractor in consultations with owners representatives

          and optimal route alignment shall be proposed by the contractor. Digital

"
 %

&i. Seoni-Bina765KVSIC
  FEAR:                                                                           12

              terrain modeling using contour data from topographical maps as well as

              processed satellite data shall be done by the contractor for the selected

              route.    A flythrough perspective using suitable software(s) shall be

              developed or further refinement of the selected route. If required site visit

              and field verification shall be conducted by the contractor jointly with the

              owners representativesfor the proposed route alignment.


        (xxv) Final digitized route alignment drawing with the latest topographical

              and other details/features including all river railway lines, canals,

              roads etc. up to 8 Kin on both side of selected route alignment shall

              be submitted by the contractors for owners approval along with

              report containingother information/details as mentioned above.



4.2 765 KV SIC Seoni-Bina transmission Line

    Based on above, the most optimum route alignments are finalized. In the instant
    project also such studies have been carried out and final route alignment has been
    finalized and chosen for construction. The major features of transmission1 line
    covered under this project are as follows:

    Seoni and Bina are located in Madhya Pradesh and the distance between the two
    Cities (Bee Line) is 265 Km .On both sides of the bee line vast amount of forest
    exist. Careful route selection has avoided these sections, however small amount of
    forest that could not be avoided completely is getting affected, details of which are
    described separately.


    Road network is present all throughout the corridor and at some remote places un-
    metalled roads and Cart-tracks exist and are motorable in dry seasons .The major
    roads that exist are NH-7, NH-12,NH-86 and other State Highways. Rail Network
    also exists in the corridor primarily the ltarsi - Jabalpur and Bina - Sagar of 'West
    Central Railway.Themain rivers that flow in this corridor between Seoni to Bina are:

           Wain ganga River
           Narmda River
           BewasRiver

    None of these rivers have a larger width at crossing points or higher water level that
    requires special attention.

    The nearest airport to the transmission line is Jabalpur at about 90 KM. Railway
    Station exist all along the route, the prominent stations would be Seoni ,
    Narsinghpur, Sagar and Bina.


    -FEAR:Seoni
    %             -Bina765 KV SIC                                                     13

Both unskilled and semi-skilled labour for construction purposes are available locally
 in nearby villages along .the line. Local labours are quite conversant with the normal
construction activity. The prevailing rate of unskilled labour is Rs 101 per day and
that of semi-skilledlabour is Rs 108 per day for a fair days work.

 Details of final route alignment along with map are placed as Annexure-2.

 Details of Forest involvement:

The subject line involves 111.98 ha in Madhya Pradesh. Forest proposal for
obtaining clearance of IWOEF submitted to concern forest authorities (Annexure-3).
Affected forest comprises of RerservelProtected forest. Major sp. that will be
affected areTectona grandis, Anogeissus latifolia, Terminalia chebula,
Diospyros melonoxylon, Lagerstroemia Parvirlora, Semecarput anacardium,
Buchanania lanzan, Butea monosperama(Lamk) and other miscellaneous sp.
The total no. of trees coming in the entire ROW is 39650. However, felling of trees
has been restricted to barest minimum and rests are only loppedlpruned to maintain
electrical clearance. A detailed compensatory afforestation scheme for carrying out
afforestation in lieu of above diversion is prepared by forest authorities at a cost of
Rs. 1,60,20,663/- (Annexure-4)

Forest Clearance: Proposal after inspection by Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF)
Central, Regional MOEF, Bhopal on 09.07.07, was forwarded to MOEF, New Delhi
on 20.07.07. The proposal was discussed in Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) on ---
and recommended for approval. The FAC recommendation was put up before
Central Empowered Committee (CEC) a body constituted by Hon'ble Supreme Court
of India for its review and recommendation to Hon;ble Court for approval. The CEC
vide its report dt.14.11.07 to Hon'ble Court recommended it for approval. The
Hon'ble court has granted its permission for approval vide its order dt. 15.2.08. In-
principle approval for diversion of 111.98 ha. has been obtained from MOEF vide its
letter dt. 12.5.08 (Annexure-5)

                             (EnvironmentalImpact Matrix)
    IS. No. 1            PARAMETERS              I         Extent of lmaact
     1. A.       Line length- 292 Kms.             --
                Madhya Pradesh        -292 Km
       B.       Terrain:-
                 Plain         - 274 km (93.84%)
                 Hilly         - 18 Km (06.16%)
     2.         Type of line, 765 KV SIC           --
     3.        ( Forest land traversed (Km)      1 17.497
     4.        I Forest land traversed (Ha)      1 111.98
     5.         Forest type                        Reserve forest ( 14.464 ha ),
                                                   Protected forest ( 97.516 ha .)
     6.         Forest densitv                     0.0 to 0.4
     7.          Rare1endangered flora             Nil
     8.          Rare1endangered fauna             Nil


:&  FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KVSIC                                                     14

    9.      Migrating Wild life1breeding  Nil
            ground
    10.     National Park Isanctuaries    None
    11.     Amt. of wet land traversed    Nil
    12.     Soil erodability              low
    13.     Historical ICul'turalMonument None
    14.     Relocation of villagers       None
    15.     Loss1Hindrance to Public      Negligible, restricted to
            Utilities                     construction phase only.




&FEAR:Seoni-Bina765
2..

                    KVSIC

        SECTJON-V: POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, EVALUATION AItiO 1TS
                       MANAGEMENT

5.0    Impact Due to Project Location

       Although, all possible measures have been taken during the finalization of route
       alignment as described in the earlier chapter for the proposed transmission system
       but due to peculiarity of terrain and demography of the area where project is being
       implemented, some environmental irr~pactsmay be there. The explanatio~isin brief
       with regard to possible environmental impact and measures taken to minimize the
       same are as follows:


  (i) Resettlement

       As described earlier all measures are undertaken by POWERGRID at line routing
       stage itself to avoid settlements such as cities, villages etc. It may be noted from the
       above description that final route alignments do not impact habitation. Moreover,
       keeping in mind that no land is acquired for tower foundation as per existing law, the
       project does not require any resettlementof villagers.

       The proposed project do not envisages construction of any new substation and
       extension of only two existing substation is involved where sufficient land is already
       available for proposed bays. Hence no fresh land acquisition or R&R issues are
       involvedin the present projects.

  (ii) Land value depreciation

       Based on past experience land prices are generally expected to rise in the areas
       receiving power. Further, transmission lines generally pass through uninhabited
       area, agriculture fields and forests, where the land-use is not going to change in
       foreseeable future. Therefore, the value of land will not be adversely affected to a
       significant degree.

  (iii) Historicallcultural monumentslvalue

       As per the assessment carried out during finalization of route alignment in
       consultation with State revenue authorities and ASI, no such monuments are getting
       affected in the instant project.


  liv)Encroachmentinto precious ecological areas

        As already explained all precautions have been taken to avoid routing of line through
       forest and ecological sensitive areas and National parWSanctuaries. However,
       complete avoidance of forest area was not possible though National ParWSanctuary
       or any other protective areas have been completely avoided. But the routes of
       proposed transmission line are so finalized that it affects minimum forest area, which


          FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC                                                      16

has also been certified by concerned Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Annexure- 3 .
In order to minimize forest involvement and subsequent environmental impact
special tower design for 765 KV line has been developed which has reduced
the requirement of ROW by 21 m (from 85 m to 64 m) thereby saving large area
of forest. It may be seen from the earlier description                that out of total
transmission line length of about 292 Km about 17.49 Km (5.98% only) length shall
pass through forest land consisting of 111.98 Ha. forest area in the states of
Madhya Pradesh. A total of 57 towers are coming in the forest area. Prior approval of
GOI/MOEF has been obtained for affected forest under Forest (Conservation) Act,
1980 (Annexure- 5). Most of the forests to be traversed by the lines are
already heavily degraded and the wildlife species present are those who have
been    adapted     to   open    or   disturbed habitat. Therefore with provision of
Compensatory Afforestation on equivalent area 112 ha. of non forest land , the
overall   forest status    will   in  many      cases    improve (refer Annexu~re-4).
IVonetheless, to mitigate losses to existing forests, clearing of the transmission
line Right-of-way will be done under supervision of Forest Department, and
some low canopy seed trees and shrubs may be kept intact if they do not
interfere with tower erection and line installation. The wood will be sold by the
Forest Department, who will also retain the sale proceeds. Three-meter wide strips
of land under each conductor will be cleared and maintained as maintenance rows,
but the remaining land will be allowed to regenerate. Lopping of trees to maintain line
clearance will be done under the direction of Forest Department. POWERGRID will
provide construction crews with fuel wood or alternative fuels as a precaution against
collection of fuel wood from nearby forest.

Transmission lines can serve as new access routes into previously inaccessible or
poorly accessible forests, thereby accelerating forest and wildlife loss. In such cases,
POWERGRID cannot take action itself, but local Forest Department personnel will
normally assess the dangers and take appropriate action, such as establishing guard
stations at the entrance to the forest etc. cost of which is borne by POWERGRID
and is included in the compensatory afforestation scheme. Given the already easy
access and degraded conditions at the proposed projects sites, this problem is not
expected to be encountered. Nonetheless, POWERGRID staff will report to the
Forest Departmentany noticeable encroachment induced by the Projects.


Encroachment into other valuable lands

Impacts on agricultural land are restricted to the constructionphase and when large-
scale maintenancemeasures are required. Some stretch of the line will pass through
Agricultural fields. Agricultural land will be lost at the base of the tower, which is
estimated to be 0.2-1 sq. m per average farrr~holding (Fig-I).

In areas where lines will traverse agricultural land, compensation will be paid to
owners for any crop damage incurred as a result of construction activities.
POWERGRID field staff will consult affected villagers and local revenue department
and apprise him about the project and tower location, which shall be erected in the
agricultural land, for compensation. Revenue department, after evaluating the loss


   .
,-P
3:FEAR:Seoni-Bina765   KV SIC                                                      17

    due to construction activity and productivity of land, arrives at the compensation cost
    that is paid to farmer. Agriculturalactivities will be allowed to continue following the

    constr~~ctionperiod. If bunds or other on-farm works are disturbed during
    construction or maintenance, they will be restored to the owner's satisfaction
    following cessation of construction or maintenance activities. In the event that private
    trees are felled during construction or maintenance operations, compensation will be
    paid to the owner in an amount determined by the estimated loss of products from
    the tree over an eight year period (for fruit bearing trees) and for other trees
    compensation is finalized in consultation with local forest authorities. Out of total
    tower location of 783, 726 tower locations are coming either on private land or
    revenue land. Agricultural lands under private ownership are being identified, and in
    accordance with normal POWERGRID procedures compensation is paid to the
    affected villagers towards crop and trees damages.           It is estimated that total
    compensation towards cropltrees shall be the tune of Rs. 200 lakh. Budgetary
    provisionRs. 292 lakh @ Rs. 1.OO Lakh per Km is made in the cost estimate to meet
    these expenses (Annexure-6).

(vi) Interferencewith other utilities and traffic

    As per regulations enacted by Government of India, it is mandatory for
    POWERGRIDto seek clearance prior to construction from department of Railways,
    Telecommunicationsand wherever necessary from aviation authorities that are likely
    to be affected by the construction of transmissionlines. The transmission lines affect
    nearby telecommunication circuits by causing electrical interference. A standing
    committee -- Power Telecom Co-ordination Committee (P.T.C.C.) has been
    constituted by Government of India to plan and implement the mitigating measures
    for the induced voltage which may occur to nearby telecom circuit and suggest
    necessary protection measures to be adopted. The committee suggests measures
    like rerouting of the telecom circuits, conversion of overhead telecom circuits into
    cables etc. to minimize the interference.

    The cost of such measures is determined by the Committee and is shared by
    POWERGRID and Telecom Department on the basis of prevailing norms and
    guidelines. Though the exact cost to rr~itigatethe irr~pactsof induction in neighboring
    telecom circuits would vary from case to case, the cost on an average works out to
    be Rs.500001-per km for POWERGRID. Provision to meet these expenses has been
    made in the cost estimate for the same.

    Wherever transmission line crosses the railways, clearance is taken from that
    department. In general, the system is planned and executed in such a way that
    adequate clearance is maintained between transmission lines on the one hand, and
    railways, civil aviation and defense installations on the other.         Wherever the
    transmission lines pass by the airports the towers beyond specified height are
    painted in alternate orange and white stripes for easy visibility and warning lights are
    placed atop these towers. All necessary clearance have already been obtained or in
                                                                                                *
    the advance stage of processingwith relevant authorities.




    %FEAR: Seoni-Bina765  KV SIC

  (vii) Interferencewith drainage pattern

        As the transmission lines are constructed aerially and the blockage of ground
        surface is limited to area of tower footings which is very small, there is little possibility
        of affecting drainage pattern. Since in the instant project most of the line is being
        constructed in the plain area no such impact is encountered till date and during
        further implementation if such instances are reported, flow will be trained and
        guided to safe zones.

5.1     EnvironmentalProblems Due to Design

 (i)    Escape of pollutingmaterials

        The equipments installed on lines and substations are static in nature and do not
        generate any fumes or waste materials. To avoidlminimize during construction phase
        a clause has been included in the contract document and is being monitored
        regularly by the site engineers (refer EMP).

 (ii)   Explosionlfirehazards

        During the survey and site selection for transmission lines and sub-stations, it has
        been ensured that these are kept away from oillgas pipelines and other sites with
        potential for creating explosions or fires. Fires due to flashover from lines can be a
        more serious problem in forest. However, adequate safety measures shall be taken
        to avoid such incidence besides this forest authorities also incorporatemeasures like
        making fire lines to prevent spreading of fire in the affected forest area.

 (iii) Erosion hazards due to inadequate provisionfor resurfacing of exposed area

        Adequate measures are taken to re-surface the area where excavation works are
        done.Topsoil disturbed during the development of sites is used to restore the surface
        of the platform. Infertile and rocky material are removed carefully and used as fill for
        tower foundationsand rest is disposed at selected dumping areas.

 (iv) Environmentalaesthetics

        Since spacing between the towers in case of 7651400 KV lines is approx. 400 meters
        these will not affect the visual aesthetics of the localities particularly when it is
        ensured to route the lines as far away from the localities as possible. POWERGRID
        takes up plantation of trees to buffer the visual effect around its substations and to
        provide better living conditions.      Wherever POWERGRID feels it appropriate,
        discussions will be held with local Forest Department officials to determine feasibility
        of planting trees along roads running parallel to transmission lines to buffer visual
        effect in these areas. In addition, towers may be painted grey or green to merge with
        the background.




        -
        %?FEAR: Seoni -Bina 765KV SIC

 (v) Noiselvibration nuisances

        The equipment installed at sub-station are mostly static and are so designed that the
        noise level always remains within permissible limits i.e. 85 dB as per Indian
        standards. The noise levels reported during normal operating co~iditionsare about
        60 to 70 dB at 2 m. distance from the equipment. To contain the noise level within
        the permissible limits whenever noise level increases beyond permissible limits,
        measures like providing sound and vibration dampers and rectification of equipment
        are undertaken. In addition, plantations of sound absorbing species like Casuarinas,
        Tamarind, and Neem are raised at the sub-stations that reduce the sound level
        appreciably.It is reported that 93 m3 of woodland can reduce the noise level by 8 dB.
        Actual noise levels measured at perimeters of existing Substations are 20 to 30 dB.

        Noise during construction phase is periodically monitored and due maintenance of
        equipmentsare ensured to keep the noise level well within the prescribed limit.


  (vi) Blockage of wildlife passage

        Since the line is passing through mostly agricultural, wasteland and the affected
        forest area is also not a migration path of wild life hence, possibility of disturbance to
        wild life are nillremote.

5.2     Environmental Problems During Construction Phase

(i)     Uncontrolled silt runoff

        The Project involves only small scale excavation for tower foundations at scattered
        locations that are re-filled with excavated material as the major portion of project
        area (94%) is in plain hence uncontrolled silt run off is not expected.

  (ii) Nuisance to nearby properties

        As already described in preceding paras, during site selection due care is taken to
        keep the transmission line and substations away from settlements. Further, all the
        construction activities will be undertaken through the use of small mecha~iical
        devices e.g. tractors and manual labour therefore nuisance to the nearby properties
        if any, is not expected. The construction activities are normally undertaken in lean
        period and post harvesting to avoidlminimize such impact Exhibit-4.

  (iii) Interference with utilities and traffic and blockage of access way

        Access to the site will be along existing roads or village paths; minor improvements
        to paths may be made where necessary, but no major construction of roads will be
        necessary either during construction or as a part of maintenance procedures. Usirrg
        details collected using GIs and GPS during route alignment, It may be noted that
        access road ( Metalled 1Non-metalled /cart roads) are existing to access all angle
        points and construction of no new road is envisaged (taking 250 m as buffer zone
        which can always be accessed through head load) for this line.           Even if at some


        C,i.
        2% FEAR: Seoni-Bina 765 KVSIC                                                        20

     places it is found that access road is not available than existing fieldlpath is
     upgraded1augmented for utilization and compensation for any damage to crop or
     field is paid to the owner. In many areas such improvement in the access road is
     highly appreciatedby the local population.

     As and when a transmission line crosses any road1railways line, the short span
     angle (DT) towers are located at a distance so as not to cause any hindrance to the
     movement of traffic. Stringing at the construction stage is carried out during lean
     traffic period in consultation with the concerned authorities and angle towers are
     planted to facilitate execution of work in different stages.

(iv) lnadequate resurfacing for erosion control

     Since proposed line is to be constructed in plain area where erosion problem is not
     anticipated. However, if due to terrain at some points transmission towers may be
     placed on slopes and erosion prone soils internationally accepted engineering
     practices will be undertaken to prevent soil erosion. This will include cutting and
     filling slopes wherever necessary. The back cut slopes and downhill slopes will be
     treated with revetments. As explained above adequate steps shall be taken to
     resurFace the area after construction. Wherever sites are affected by active erosion
     or landslides, both biological and engineering treatment will be carried out, e.g.
     provision of breast walls and retaining walls, and sowing soil binding grasses around
     the site. Furthermore, construction is generally undertaken outside the rainy season.
     As the proposed lines are mostly passing through plain (94%0 areas no such
     problems are anticipated.

 (v) lnadequate disposition of borrow area

     As mentioned earlier the transmission tower foundations involve excavations on
     small scale basis and the excavated soil is utilized for back filling. In case of
     substations generally the sites are selected in such a manner that the volunle of
     cutting is equal to volume of filling avoiding borrowing of the area. As such
     acquisitionlopening of borrow area is not needed.

(vi) Protection of Worker's healthlsafety

     The Safety RegulationsISafetyManual published by POWERGRID, and included in
     tender documents will guide provisions for workers' health and safety. Various
     aspects such as, work and safety regulations, workmen's compensation, insurance
     are adequately covered under the Erection Conditions of Contract (ECC), a part of
     bidding documents(Annexure-7).

     POWERGRID has a dedicated unit to oversee all health and safety aspects (ofits
     project    under    the   Operation   Service Deptt.      POWERGRID has       framed
     guidelineslchecklist for workers' safety as its personnel are exposed to live EHV
     apparatus and transmission lines. These guidelineslchecklist include work pe;mits
     and safety precautions for work on the transmission lines both during construction
     and operation and is monitored regularly by site in-charge and corporate Operation
     Services (Annexure-8).In addition training is imparted to the workers in fire fighting


          FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC                                                  21

    and safety measures (Exihibit-5). Safety tools like helmet, safety belt, gloves etc.
    are provided to them in accordance to the provisions of Safety Manual. First aid
    facilities will be made available with the labour gangs, and doctors called in from
    nearby towns when necessary. The number of outside (skilled) labourers will be
    quite small, of the order of 25-30 people per group. The remaining workforce of
    unskilled labourers will be comprised of local people. Workers are also covered by
    the statutory Workmen (Compensation) Act. Regular health checkups are conducted
    for constrl~ctionworkers. The constr~~ctionsites and construction workers' houses
    are disinfected regularly if required. 111order to rr~inirnizelcheckingof spread of
    socially transmitted diseases e.g. HIVIAIDS etc. POWERGRID conduct awareness
    building programs on such issues for the constructionworkers.

5.3 ~nvironm~ntalProblems Resulting from Operation


(i) O&M StafflSkillsless than acceptable resulting in variety of adverse effects

    The O&M program in POWERGRID is normally implemented by sub-station
    personnel for both, the lines as well as sub-stations. However in respect of the long
    distance transmission lines there are monitoring offices that are located at various
    points en-route. Monitoring measures employed include patrolling and thermo-vision
    scanning. The supervisors and managers entrusted with O&M responsibilities are
    intensivelytrained for necessary skills and expertise for handling these aspects.

    A monthly preventive maintenance program will be carried out to disclose problems
    related to cooling oil, gaskets, circuit breakers, vibration measurements, contact
    resistance, condensers, air handling units, electrical panels and compressors. Any
    sign of soil erosion is also reported and rectified. Monitoring results are published
    monthly, including a report of corrective action taken and a schedule for future
    adion.

    POWERGRID is following the approved international standards and design, which
    are absolutely safe. Based on the studies carried out by different countries on the
    safety of EHV lines in reference to EMF affect POWERGRID have also carried out
    such studies with the help of PTI, USA and CPRI, Bangalore on their design. The
    studies inferred that the POWERGRID design are safe and follow the required
    international standard. Because of issues relating to need to ensure health and
    safety relating to the line such as fire safety, safe voltages on metallic parts of
    buildings, and safety clearances to avoid flashover, the transmission lines will not
    pass directly over any residential properties and as such the potential for EMF
    effects to occur will be further diminished. Given that it will be necessary to ensure
    that there are no properties in the ROW beneath and to the sides of the overhead
    line, automatic mitigation against EMF will be provided between the source of
    potentiallyhigh strengths (the transmission line) and the residential properties.

    Poly Chlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) due to its high heat capacity, low flammability
    and low electrical conductivity was extensively used as insulating material in
    capacitors and transformers. But after the finding that these PCBs are non-
    biodegradable and has carcinogenic tendency, its use in electrical equipments as
    insulating medium has been banned all over the world long back. However, it has

    ,-.-.
    +.*
    -4; FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC                                                    22

      been reported in some studies that chances of contarr~inationof oil with PCB is
      possible. Keeping that in mind, POWERGRID has taken all possible steps in
      association with NGC, UK and setup Regional testing laboratories for testing of
      existing oil for PCB traces and results of this suggests that PCB contamination is not
      an issue with POWERGRID. The World Bank has also made following comme~its
      after a detailed study on Management of PCBs in India :

      "Power Grid was the most advanced in testing for PCBs of the organizations
      visited for this project. They have established a procedure for identification of
      the presence of PCBs in transformer oil and more detailed analysis for positive
      identification sample. To date no significant concentrations of PCBs have been
      detected. Power Grid do not appear to have any significant issues regarding
      PCB management and have initiated a testing program. The experience &
      laboratories of Power Grid could be used to provide a national PCB auditing
      service".

5.4   CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CRITERIA

 (i) Loss of irreplaceableresources

      The transmission projects do not involve any large scale excavation and land is lost
      to the extent of 0.2-1 sq m only for each foundation. As only 17.49 Km. (111.98 ha.)
      of the lines in the subject project are passing .through forest area some loss of
      vegetation is anticipated but with the provision of compensatory afforestation on
      equivalent area affected (112 ha.) will not only compensate the loss of vegetation
      but will increase the forest area. The non forest land identified for such plantation by
      forest department is in the Katni forest divisions of the concerned State (MP). The
      cost of such plantation paid to forest department is Rs. 160.26 lakhs (refer
      Annexure-4).


(ii)   Accelerateduse of resources for short-term gains

      The project will not be making use of any natural resources occurring in the area
      during construction as well as maintenance phases. The construction material such
      as tower members, cement etc shall come from factories while the excavated soil
      shall be used for backfilling to restore the surface. Thus the project shall not cause
      any accelerated use of resources for short term gains.

(iii) Endangeringof species

      No endangered species of flora and fauna exist in the project area as well as in the
      affected forest thus there is no possibility of endangeringlcausing extinction of any
      species.

(iv) Promoting undesirable rural-to urban migration

      The project will not cause any submergence or loss of land holdings that normally
      trigger migration. It also does not involve acquisition of any private land holdings.
      Hence, there is no possibility of any migration.

      -
          FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KVSIC                                                      23

5.6 PUBLIC CONSULTATION:

    Public consultationlinformation is an integral part of the project implementation.
    P~lblicis informed about the project at every stage of execution. During survey also
    POWERGRID's site officials meet people and inform them about the routing of
    transmission lines. During the construction, every individual, on whose land tower is
    erected and people affected by ROW, are consulted.

     Apart from this, public consultation using different technique like Public Meeting,
    Small Group Meeting, informal Meeting as per Environmental Social Policy &
    Procedures of POWERGRID (ESPP) shall also be carried out during different
    activities of project cycle. During such consultation the public will be informed about
    the project in general and in particular about the following:

        complete project plan (i.e. its route and terminating point and substations, if any,
        in between);
        POWERGRIDdesign standards in relation to approved international standards;
        Health impacts in relation to EMF;
        Measures taken to avoid public utilities such as school, hospitals, etc.;
        Other impacts associated with transmission lines and POWERGRID's approach
        to minimizingand solving them;
        Land acquisition details, proposed R&R measures and compensation packages
        in line with POWERGRID's policy;
        Trees and crop compensationprocess.


    Apart from organising many informal grol-lp meetings in different villages a public
    meeting was also orgar~isedin the village Harri of Chindwara distt. of Madhya
    Pradesh on 28.9.04.         To get the maximum participation during the Public
    consultation Programme a notice was served well in advance to the villagers . The
    details of line and its importance was explained to the villagers by the Chief
    ManagerISeoni. About sixty villagers including Surpanchs, MIS.P. Prabhakar Reddy
    (Survey Agency) representative and POWERGRIDrepresentative participated in the
    programme. Pamphlets in local language were circulated during the programme
    anlongst the participants. The programme was arranged in interactive way and
    queries like crop compensation etc. were replied. The programme was appreciated
    by the villagers including Sarpanch and they assured to extend their cooperation for
    construction of transniission project. The process of such consultation shall continue
    during project implementation and even during O&M stage. The details of
    consultation, Pamphlet etc. are placed at Annexure-9.


5.7 CONCLUSIONS:

    From the above discussion, it would seem that the area is rich in physical resources.
    But careful route selection has avoided involvement of any National ParkISanctuary
    or protected area but involvement of forest could not be avoided due to terrain and
    other physiographical reasons. Thus, routes selected for detailed survey are the


     <-.
    3FEAR:Seoni-Bina   765 KV SIC                                                       24

most optim~.~mroute alignment and involved minimum forest and no R&R issues are
anticipated as no fresh land acquisition is involved and land for extension of existing
sub-staion is already available. Hence, based on the criteria agreed with The Bank
the project is coming under the P2 category or non sensitive as only 5.9% of total
length is passing through forest which is already degraded in nature and no
impact on wild life is envisages as the forest is not the habitat of any
endangered or endemic sp. of fauna and flora. The infrastructuralconstraintsare
very real and pose a limiting factor on the development of the area. 'The above facts
while on the one hand underline the need for implementation of the project for overall
development of the area and on another hand suggest that a detailed E.I.A. may not
be necessary.




  FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC

       SECTION-VI: MONITORiNGAND ORGANISKTIONAL,SUPPORT STRUCTURE
      I




6.0    ENVIRONMENTALMONITORINGPROGRAM IN POWERGRID:

       Monitoring is a continuous process for POWERGRID projects at all the stages be it
       the site selection, construction or maintenance.

       The success of POWERGRIDlies in its strong monitoring systems. Apart from the
       site managers reviewing the progress on daily basis regular project review meetings
       are held at least on monthly basis which is chaired by Executive Director of the
       region wherein apart from construction issues the environmental aspects of the
       projects are discussed and remedial measures taken wherever required.             The
       exceptions of these meetings are submitted to the Directors and Chairman and
       Managing Director of the Corporation. The progress of various on-going projects is
       also informed to the Board of Directors. Following is the organization support system
       for proper implementation and monitoring of Environmental & Social Management
       Plan :

6.1 Corporate Level

       An Environmental Management Cell at corporate level was created within
       POWERGRIDin 1992 and subsequently upgraded to an Environment Management
       Department (EMD) in 1993 and in 1997 it has been further upgraded to Environment
       & Social Management Deptt. (ESMD) by incorporating social aspect of project.
       Briefly, the ESNID'sresponsibilitiesare as follows:

                     Advising and coordinating RHQs and Site to carry out environmental
                     and social surveys for new projects.
                     Assisting RHQs and site to finalize routes of entire power transmission
                     line considering environmental and social factors that could arise
                     enroute
                     Help RHQs and Site to follow-up with the state forest ofices and other
                     state departments in expediting forest clearances and the land
                     acquisition process of various ongoing and new projects
                     Act as a focal point for interaction with the MOEF for expediting forest
                     clearances and follow-upswith the Ministry of Power.
                     lrr~parts training to POWERGRIDys RHQs & site Officials on
                     environmentand social issues and their management plan.


6.2    Regional Level

        At its Regional Office POWERGRID has a Environmental and Social Management
        cell (ESMC) to manage Environmental and Social issues and to coordinate between
        ESMD at the Corporate level and the Construction Area Office (CAO). The key
        functions envisaged for ESMC are :



          FEAR: Seoni-Bina 765 KVSIC                                                    26

             Advising and coordinating field offices to carry out environmental and
             social surveys for new projects envisaged in the Corporate Investment
             Plan
             Assisting the ESMD and CAO to finalize routes of entire power
             transmission lines considering the environmental and social factors that
             could arise en-route
             To follow-up forest clearances and land acquisition processes with
             state forest offices and other state departments for various ongoing
             and new projects
              Acting as a focal point for interaction with the ESMD and CAOs on
             various environmental and social aspects.


6.3    Site Office

At the Site level , POWERGRID has made the head of the CAOs responsible for
implementing the Enviror~mentaland Social aspect of project and are termed as
Enviror~mentaland Social Management Team (ESMT) . Key functions of ,theESMT
are:
             Conduct surveys on environmental and social aspects to finalise the
             route for the power transmission projects
             Conduct surveys for the sites to being considered for land acquisition
             Interact with the Forest Departments to make the forest proposal and
             follow it up for MOEF clearance.
             Interact with Revenue Authorities for land acquisition and follow it up
             with Authorised Agencies for implementation of Social Management
             Plan (SMP).
             Implementation of Environment Management Plan (EMP) and SMP
              Monitoring of EMP and SMP and producing periodic reports on the
              same.

It may be noted that POWERGRID is well equipped to implement and monitor its
environment and Social Management plans.

As regards monitoring of impacts on ecological resources particularly in Forest,
Sanctuary or National Park , it is generally done by the concerned Divisional Forest
Officer, Chief Wildlife Warden and their staff as a part of their normal duties. A
monitoring system (done by the Forest Department) is also in place for
compensatory forests established as part of the Project. A detailed Environment
Management Plan (EMP) including monitoring plan for all possible environmental
and social impact and its proper management has been drawn and is being
implemented at site during various stage of project execution. The updated EMP with
compliance status for each line is enclosed as Annexure-10. The budgetary
estimates for EMP implementation has been made based on past experience
and practice and are placed at Annexure-II .




   FEAR: Seoni-Bina765 KV SIC

Environmental Review: Periodic review by corporate ESMD and higher
management including review by POWERGRID's CMD of all environmental and
social issues is under taken to ensure that EMP and other measures are
implemented at site. Besides it annual review by independent Auditor under ISO:
14001 shall also be undertaken for compliance of agreed policy and management
plan. The copy of recent annual audit report is placed as Annexure-12.




%FEAR:Seoni -Bina765 KVSIC

 BUDGET ESTIMATE TOWARDS FOREST AND CROPI'TREE COMPENSATION



Total line length                                       -      292 Km.


Total tower locations                                          783


A. Compensation

1    Forest

       - Line length in forest:                         -      17.49 Km.

       - Forest area                                    -      111.98 ha.

       - Tower locations in forest area                 -      53 No.

               - CompensatoryAfforestation                     -     Rs. 160.21 Iakhs
                 (as per proposedschemeby forest deptt.)

               - Net Present Value (NPV) @ Rs.8.5 lakh         -     Rs. 952.00 lakhs

               - Survey & tree fellingcharges                  -      Rs.010.00 lakhs

                               Sub Total                       -     Rs. 1122.21 lakhs




2.   Crop & Trees

       - Line length in Private /Revenue land           -      284.51 Km.

       - Tower location in Private /Revenue land-              726

               - Cropltree compensation                 - (284.51 x 100000) Rs.284.51 lakhs

                               Sub Total                       -     Rs. 284.51 lakh


B.  Implementation Monitoring & Audit

       i)      Man-powerinvolved for ElWP implementation
               & Monitoring in entire route of Transmission
               lines (Rs.I0, 000/-i<292 Km)                     -          Rs.    29.20 lakhs
       ii)     IndependentAudit (LS) if needed                  -          Rs.     5.00 lakhs

                                 Sub Totat                     -           Rs. 34.20 takhs




                               Grand Total (A+B)               =     Rs.1440.92Lakhs




MAP-'I FOREST COVER lN MADHYA PRADESH




             Forest Cover


            Very Dense Moderately Dense
              Foresf       Forest
              1.5%         12.3%

CONSTRUCTIONDURING LEAN PERIOD





             EXHIBIT- 5




SAFETY DRILL AT CONSTRUCTION SITE

Forest Clearance Flow Chart (Forest area more than 40 hectares)




              Compliancereport by State Govt. to MoEF I

PUBLQCMEETINGAT VILLAGE HARRI


PUBLIC MEETINGAT VILLAGE HARRII


                                              SEONI-BINA 765 KV SIC TRANSMISSIONSYSTEM
                                                           Environment Management Plan

Project       Potential Proposed mitigation            Parameter to be         Measurement and         Institutional  Implementation             Compliance Report
activity      Impact     measures                      monitored               frequency               responsibility schedule
/stage
Pre construction
Location of   Exposure   Setback of dwelling to        Tower location and      Setback distance to     POWERGRID      Part of tower siting       Careful route     alignment
transmission  to safety  c\overhead line route         line alignment          nearest houses - once                  survey and detailed        had    ensured    that   no
towers and    related    designed in accordance with   selection with respect                                         alignment survey and       house/dwelling     unit   is
transmission  risks      permitted level of power      to nearest dwellings                                           design                     coming in the ROW.
line                     frequency and the regulation
alignment                of supervision at sites.
and design
Equipment     Release    PCBs not used in substation   Transformer design      Exclusion of PCBs in    POWERGRID      Part of tender             Compiled and included in
specification of         transformers or other project                         transformer stated in                  specifications for the     tender document
s and design  chemical   facilities or equipment.                              tender specifications-                 equipment
parameters    s and                                                            Once
              gases in   Process, equipment and        Process, equipment      Exclusion of CFCs       POWERGRID      Part of tender             Compiled and included in
              receptors  system not to use             and system design       stated in tender                       specifications for the     tender document
              (air,      chlorofluorocarbons(CFCs),                            specification- Once                    equipment
              water,     including halon, and their
              land)      use, if any, in existing
                         processes and systems should                          Phase out schedule to                  Part of equipment and      Not applicable
                         be phased out and to be                               be prepared in case                    process design
                         disposed of in a manner                               still in use- once
                         consistent with the
                         requirement of the
                         Government
Transmissio   Exposure   Transmission line design to   Electromagneticfield    Line design             POWERGRID      Part of detailed alignment Designs are in compliance
n line design to         comply with the limits of     strength for proposed   compliance with                        survey and design          with international standards
              electrom   electromagnetic interference  line design             relevant standards-                                               as       certified       by
              agnetic    from overhead power lines                             Once                                                              PTI,USA,CPlU Banglore
Location of   Impact     Consideration of tower        Tower location and      Consultation with local POWERGRID      Part of tower siting       Complied and no tower is
transmission  on water   location at where they could  line alignment          authorities and                        survey and detailed        placed in water bodies.
towers and    bodies     be located to zvoid water     selectiaa (distance) to avoiding tower                         alignment survey and
transmission  and land   bodies                        water bodies            foundation in water                    design
line                                                                           bodies.
alignment     Social     Careful route selection to    Tower location and      Consultation with local POWERGRID      Part of tower siting       Careful route selection and
and design    inequities avoid existing settlements    line alignment          authorities and land                   survey and detailed        provision    of    adequate
                                                                                                                                                 extensions has avoided the

                                                       nearest dwelling or                                      design                      habituated area         to   the
                                                       social institutions)                                                                 extent possible.
                         Minimize need to acquire      Tower location and     Consultation with local POWERGRID Part of tower siting        No agricultural land is
                         agriculture land              line alignment         authoritiesand land               survey and detailed         acquired for tower location
                                                       selection (distance to owners- once                      alignment survey and        and people are consulted at
                                                       agricultural land)                                       design                      every stage.
Encroachme     Loss of   Avoid encroachment by         Tower location and     Consultation with local POWERGRID Part of detailed siting and Careful route selection has
nt into        precious  careful site and alignment    line alignment         forest authoritiesto              alignment survey / design   avoidedthese crossingsand
precious       ecologica selection                     selection (distance to  avoidJminimizeforest
ecological     1                                       nearest designated     involvement- once                                              l 1 1.98 I-la. ( 1 7.49 I<m.)of
area           valueslda                               ecological protection                                                                forcst land in the State of
               mages to                                area)                                                                                Madhya          Pradcsl~       is
               precious                                                                                                                     involvcd in tl~cline.
               species


Transmissio    Deforesta Avoid encroachment by          Tower location and    Consultation with local POWERGRID Part of detailed siting and Adequate extensions and
n line         tion and  careful site and alignment    line alignment         authorities- once                 alignment survey /design    reduction in ROW from 85
through        lossof    selection                     selection (distance to                                                               to     64    m      resulted   in
forestland     biodivers                               nearest protected or                                                                 minimization          of    trees
               ity                                     reserved forest)                                                                     cuttingand 39650 trees are
                                                                                                                                            getting affected in forest
                                                                                                                                            area calculated in complete
                                                                                                                                            ROW. Tree cutting shall be
                                                                                                                                            further      reduced      during
                                                                                                                                            construction.
                         Minimize the need by using                           Consultation with local
                         existing towers, tall towers,                        authorities and design
                         and ROW, wherever possible                           engineers- once
                         Obtain statutory clearances   Statutory approvals    Compliance with                                               Forest clearance obtained
                         from the Government           from Government        regulations-oncefor                                           from Ministry of Env. &
                                                                              each sub project                                              Forests, Govt. of India.
Encroachmentinto         Use existing tower            Tower location and     Consultation with local POWERGRID Part of detailed alignment Foundations cast during
farmland                 footings/towers wherever      line alignment         authorities and design            survey and design           lean     period       to   avoid
Loss of agricultural     possible                      selection              engineer- once                                                damage to the crops during
productivity                                                                                                                                harvest.
                         Avoid siting new towers on    Tower location and     Consultation with local           Part of detailed siting and Due care taken to avoid the
                         farmland wherever feasible     line alignment         authorities and design           alignment survey 1design    damage       to     the    extent
                                                       selection               engineers- once                                              possible.
                         Farmers compensatedfor any    Design of               Consultation with                Prior to construction       Compensation being paid
                         permanent loss of productive  Implementation of       affected parties- once           phase                       for all damagesif any.
                         land                           Crop Compensation      in a quarter
                                                       (based on affected
                                                        area)
                         Farmers / land owners          Design of              Consultation with                Prior to construction       Tree compensation being
                         compensated for significant    implementation of      affected parties- once           phase                       paid for all damages during
                         trees that need to be trimmed Tree compensation       in a quarter                                                 construction.

                         / removed along ROW.          (estimated area to be
                                                       trimmed / removed)
                                                       Statutory approvals for Compliance with                          Part of detalled s~tingand Being     complied     with
                                                       tree trimming /         regulations-once for                     alignment survey1design    regularly.
                                                       removal                 each sub project
Interference  Flooding   Appropriate siting of towers  Tower location and      Consultation with       POWERGRID        Part of detailed alignment Complied and no blocking
with          hazards /  to avoid channel interference line alignment          authorities and design                   survey and design          of any water channel is
drainage      loss of                                  selection (distance to  engineers-once                                                      anticipated.
patterns/Irri agricultur                               nearest flood zone)
gation        a1
channels      productio
              n
Construction
Equipment      Noise     Construction techniques and   Construction            Construction            POWERGRID        Construction period        Complied     and   periodic
layout and     and       machinery selection seeking   techniques and          techniques and          (Contractor                                 monitoring of machinery is
installation   vibratio  to minimize ground            machinery               machinery creating      through contr                               done.
               n         disturbance                                           minimal ground          act provisions)
                                                                               disturbance- once at
                                                                               the start of each
                                                                               construction phase
Physical       Disturb   Construction activities on    Timing of start of      Crop disturbance  -     POWERGRID        Construction period        Foundation being planned
construction   ed        cropping land timed to avoid  construction            Post harvest as soon as (Contractor                                 in lean period or avoided
               farming   disturbance of field                                  possible but before     through contract                            during harvest. (Exhibitd)
               activity  crops(wlth1n one month of                             next crop-once par site provisions)
                         harvest wherever possible)
Mechanized     Noise,    Construction equipment to be  Construction            Complaints received     POWERGRID        Construction period        All    equipments     being
construction   vibratio  well maintained.              equipment-estimated     by local authorities -  (Contractor                                 checked regularly.
               n and                                   noise emissions         every 2 weeks           through contract
               operato                                                                                 provisions)
               r safety,
               efficien
               t
               operatio
               n
               Noise     Turning off plant not in use  Construction            Complaints received     POWERGRID        Construction period        Complied.
               vibratio                                equipment - estimated   by local authorities - (Contractor
               n,                                      noise emissions and     every 2 weeks           through contract
               equipm                                  operating schedules                             provisions)
               ent
               wear
               and tear
Construction   Increas   Existing roads and tracks     Access roads, routes    Use of established      POWERGRID        Construction period        No new roads are being
of roads for   e in      used for construction and     (length and width of    roads wherever          (Contractor                                 constructed in the present
accessibility  airborn   maintenance access to the     new access roads to be  possible - every 2      through contract                            project rather some existing
               e dust    line wherever possible        constructed)            weelts                  provisions)                                 roadlpath      has     been
               particle                                                                                                                            strengthenedlrepaired.
               S

Temporary      Over     Temporary placement of fill    Temporaryfill           Absence of fill in       POWERGRID        Constructionperiod   Nil
blockage of    flows,   in drainslcanalsnot permitted  placement               sensitive drainage       (Contractor
utilities      reduced                                                         areas - every 4 weels    through contract
               dischar                                                                                  provisions)
               ge
Site clearance Vegetat  Marking of vegetationto be     Vegetation marking      Clearance strictly       POWERGRID        Constructionperiod   Included      in     contract
               ion      removed prior to clearance,    and clearancecontrol ( limited to target         (Contractor                           provisions     and     being
                        and strict control on clearing area in m2)             vegetation- every 2      through contract                      monitored regularly. An
                        activitiesto ensure minimal                            weeks                    provisions)                           area of 10-15 x 10-15 m2 is
                        clearance                                                                                                             being      cleared    tower
                                                                                                                                              foundation at each location
                                                                                                                                              depending on the type of
                                                                                                                                              tower. In rest of ROW trees
                                                                                                                                              that are coming in the
                                                                                                                                              electrical clearance zone
                                                                                                                                              are cleared.
                                                                               Presence of target       POWERGRID        Constructionperiod   Parameter       is     being
                                                                               species in ROW           (Contractor                           monitored and taken care
                                                                               following vegetation     through contract                      during const.
                                                                               clearance- once per      provisions)
                                                                               site
                       -
               Trimmi   Fire Hazards                   Trees allowed growing   .Species- specific tree  POWERGRID        Constructionperiod   Parameter       is     being
               ngcutti                                 up to a height within   retention as approved    (Contractor                           monitored and talcen care
               ng of                                   the ROW by              by statutory authorities through contract                      during const. Controlled
               trees                                   maintainingadequate     (average and             provisions)                           felling coupled with other
               within                                  clearance between the   maximum tree height                                            safety measures applied
               ROW                                     top of tree and the     at maturity in meters)                                         restrict any such incident.
                                                       conductor as per the                                                                   No such case of fire has
                                                       regulations                                                                            been reported till date.
Wood           Loss of  Constructionworkers            Illegal wood /          Complaints by local      POWERGRID        Constructionperiod   Provision    for   providing
/vegetation    vegetati prohibited from harvesting     vegetation harvesting   people or other          (Contractor                           fire wood/ fuels etc. are
harvesting     on and   wood in the project area       (area in m3 number of   evidence of illegal      through contract                      included in contract. All
               deforest during their employment        incident reported)      harvesting               provisions)                           such      provisions      are
               ation    (apart from locally employed                            every 2 weeks                                                 complied by contractor and
                        staff continuing current legal                                                                                        is being monitored and
                        activities)                                                                                                           taken care during const by
                                                                                                                                              the site in charge.
Surplus        Runoff   Soil excavated from tower      Soil disposal locations Acceptable soil          POWERGRID        Constructionperiod   Excavated earth is being
earthwork /    to cause footings disposed of by        and volume(m3)          disposal sites - every 2 (Contractor                           used for refilling. The top/
soil           water    placement along roadside, or                           weeks                    through contract                      fertile    soil    is   kept
               pollutio at nearby house blocks if                                                       provisions)                           separately for resurfacing
               n, solid requested by landowners.                                                                                              and other earth is used for
               waste                                                                                                                          refilling .
               disposal
                                                                                                                                              Approx. 100-120 m3 earth
                                                                                                                                              is excavated at each tower
                                                                                                                                              location and 90-95% of this

                                                                                                                                            is         used          for
                                                                                                                                            refillinglresurfacing   and
                                                                                                                                            rest is being disposed off
                                                                                                                                            along with other debris at
                                                                                                                                            selected location.
               Waste    Excess fill from tower        Location and amount     Appropriatefill        POWERGRID        Construction period   --Do---

construction-  disposal foundations excavation        (m3) of fill disposal   disposal locations-    (Contractor
disposal of             disposed of next to roads or                          every 2 weeks          through contract                       These      provisions    are
surplus                 around houses, in agreement                                                  provisions)                            strictly   complied      and
earthwork/fill          with the local community or                                                                                         recorded             during
                        landowner                                                                                                           construction.
Storage of      Contam  Fuel and other hazardous      Location of hazardous   Fuel storage in        POWERGRID        Constructionperiod    complied and condition is
chemicalsand   ination  materials securely stored     material storage; spill appropriatelocations   (Contractor                            being taken care during
materials      of       above high flood level.       reports&type of         and receptacles- every through contract                       storage.
               receptor                               material spilled,       2 weeks                provisions)
               s (land,                               amount(kg or m3) and
               water,                                 action taken to control
               air)                                   and clean up spill)
               Noise    Constructionactivities only                           Weeks                  POWERGRID        Construction period   It is ensured by site in-
schedule       nuisanc  undertaken during the day                                                    (Contractor                            charge that construction
               e to     and local communities                                                        through contract                       activitiestakes place during
               neighbo  informed of the construction                                                 provisions)                            day time and villagers are
C              ring     schedule                                                                                                            informed in advance and
               properti                                                                                                                     affected villagers are even
               es                                                                                                                           served notice in advance.
Provision of   Contam   Construction work force       Amenitiesfor            Presence of proper     POWERGRID        Constructionperiod    Complied and included in
facilities for ination  facilities to include proper  workforcefaculties      sanitation, water      (Contractor                            the contract provision.
construction   of       sanitation, water supply and                          supply and waste       through contract
workers        receptor waster disposal facilities.                           disposal faculties -   provisions)                            Adequate           sanitation
               s(land,                                                        once each new facility                                        facilities are provided in
               water,                                                                                                                       the labour camp.
               air)
               Loss of  Use existing access roads     Usage of existing       Complaints received    POWERGRID        Constructionperiod    Mitigation measures are
into farmland  agricult wherever possible             utilities               by local people /      (Contractor                            followed and monitored
               ural                                                           authorities every 4    through contract                       regularly.
               product                                                        weelts                 provisions)                            No new roads are being
               ivity                                                                                                                        constructed in the present
                                                                                                                                            project rather some existing
                                                                                                                                            roadlpath      has      been
                                                                                                                                            strengthenedlrepaired.
                        Ensure existing irrigation    Status of existing
                        facilities are maintained in  facilities                                                                            No irrigation faciiities is
                        workingcondition                                                                                                    affected or blocked.
                        Protect1preserve topsoil and  Status of facilities                                                                  All measures to resurface
                        reinstateafter construction   (earthworkin m3)                                                                      the excavated area by top
                        completed                                                                                                           soil is adopted as described
                                                                                                                                            above.

                          Repairlreinstate damaged       Status of facilities in                                                                    Complied.
                          bunds etc after construction   m3)
                          completed
               Social     Compensation for temporary     Implementation of        Consultation with       POWERGRID         Prior to construction   Compensation            paid
               inequiti   loss in agricultural           crop compensation        affected parties - once                                           regularly Annexure-6.
               es         production                     (amount paid, dates,     in a quarter
                                                         etc)
Uncontrolled   Soil       Need for access tracks         Design basis and         Incorporating good      POWERGRID         Construction period     Parameter       is    being
erosion / silt loss,      minimized, use of existing     construction procedure   design and              (Contractor                               monitored and taken care
runoff         downstr    roads. Limit site clearing to                           construction            through contract                          during construction.
               eam        work areas.                                             management practices    provisions)
                siltaion; Regeneration of vegetation to                          -  once for each site                                              Regenration / cultivation is
                          stabilize works areas on                                                                                                  allowed in the complete
                          completion (where                                                                                                         ROW and even in the area
                          applicable)                                                                                                               below        tower      after
                                                                                                                                                    completion of construction
                                                                                                                                                    activities.
                          Avoidance of excavation in                                                                                                It is ensured by the site in-
                          wet seasons                                                                                                               charge that no excavation
                                                                                                                                                    is    carried   out  during
                                                                                                                                                    monsoonlrainy season.
                          Water courses protected form
                          siltation through use of bunds                                                                                            N.A.
                          and sediment ponds
Nuisance to    Losses     Contract clauses specifying    Contract clauses         Incorporating good       POWERGRID        Construction period     Complied and included in
near by        to         careful construction                                    construction             (Contractor                              contract conditions.
properties     neighbo    practices.                                              management practices-   through contract
               ring                                                               once for each site       provisions)
               land       As much as possible existing   Design basis and         Incorporating good                                                Parameter       is     being
               uses/      access ways will be used       layout                   design engineering                                                monitored and taken care
               values                                                             practice- once for each                                           during construction.
                                                                                  site
                          Productivity land will be      Reinstatement of land    Consultation with                                                 Parameter       is     being
                          reinstated following           status(area affected,    affected parties-twice -                                          monitored and taken care
                          completion of construction     m2)                      immediately after                                                 during construction.
                                                                                  completion of
                                                                                  construction and after
                                                                                  the first harvest
               Social     Compensation will be paid      Implementation of        Consultation with        POWERGRID        Prior to construction   Crop compensation paid
               inequiti   for loss of production, if any Treelcrops               affected parties - Once                                           regularly and talcen care
               es                                        compensation (amount     in a quarter                                                      during construction.
                                                         paid)
Health and     Injury     Contract provisions            Contract clauses         Contract clauses         POWERGRID        Construction period     Complied and included in
safety         and        specifying minimum             (number of incidents     compliance - once        (Contractor                              contract conditions.
               sicknes    requirements for construction  and total lost-work day  every quarter            through contract                         No          incident       of
               s of       camps                          caused by injuries and                            provisions)                              accidenuinjury reported till
               workers                                   sickness)                                                                                  date.

               and      Contractor to prepare and                                                                                       All health and safety plan
               member   implement a health and safety                                                                                   are in place and monitored
               s of the plan.                                                                                                           regularly   Annexure-8 /
               public                                                                                                                   Exhibit-5.
                        Contractor to arrange for                                                                                        Regular briefing / training
                        health and safety training                                                                                      for labour is organized by
                        sessions                                                                                                        contractor/POWERGRID
                                                                                                                                        Exhibit-5.
Inadequate     Likely   Training of POWERGRID          Training schedule       Number of program        POWERGRID Routinely throughout  Under implementation as
construction   to       environmental monitoring                               attended by each                   construction period   periodic training programs
stage          maximi   personnel.                                             person - once a year                                     are being organized &or.
monitoring     ze                                                                                                                       such persons.
               damage   Implementation of effective    Respective contract     Submission of duly                                        Complied.           ~ e ~ u l a ;
               s        environmental monitoring       checklists and remedial completed checldists                                     monitoring by site, RHQ
                        and reporting system using     actions taken thereof   of all contracts for                                      and Corporate is being
                        check list of all contractual                          each site-once                                            organized.
                        environmental requirements
                        Appropriate contact clauses    Compliance report       Submission of duly                                        All provisions are complied
                        to ensure satisfactory         related to              completed checklists                                      and monitored regularly by
                        implementation of              environmental aspect    of all contracts for                                      SiteIRHQ.
                        contractual environmental      for the contract        each site-once
                        mitigation measures
Operation and Maintenance                                                                                                                        N.A. YET

Location of  Exposure   Setback of dwellings to        Compliance with         Setback distances to     POWERGRID During operation
transmission to safety  overhead line route designed   setback distance ("as   nearest houses - once
towers and   related    in accordance with permitted   built" diagram)         in quarter
transmission risks      level of power frequency and
line                    the regulation of supervision
alignment               at sites.
and design
Oil spillage Contami    Substation transformers        Substain bundign (oil   Bunding (Oil sump)       POWERGRID During operation
             nation of  located within secure and      sump) ("as built"       capacity and
             land /     impervious sump areas with a   diagram)                permeability -  once
             nearby     storage capacity of at least
             water      100% of the capacity of oil in
             bodies     transformers and associated
                        reserve tanks
Inadequate   Injury      Careful design using          Usage of appropriate    Preparedness level for             Design and operation
Provision of and        appropriate technologies to    technologies (lost work using these              POWERGRID
stafflworker sickens    minimize hazards               days due to illness and technologies in crisis -
s health and of staff /                                injuries)               once each year
safety       workers    Safety awareness raising for   Training / awareness    Number of program
during                  staff                          program and mock        and percent of staff
operations              Preparation of fire emergency  drills                  /worker covered-
                        action plan and training given                         once each year
                        to staff on implementing

                         emergency action plan
Inadequate    Injury     Careful design using           Usage of appropriate      Preparedness level for  POWERGRID Design and operation
provision of  and        appropriate technologies to    technologies (lost work   using these
staff /       siclmess   minimize hazards               day due to illness and    technologies in crisis-
workers       of staff                                  injuries)                 once each year
health and    workers    Safety awareness raising for   Trainindawareness         Number of programs
safety                   staff                          program and mock          and percent of staff /
during                                                  drills                    workers covered   -
operation                action plan and training given                           once each year
                         to staff on implanting

                                                        Usage of appropriate      Preparedness level for  POWERGRID
                                                        technologies (number      using these
                                                        of injury incidents, lost technologies in crisis-
                                                        work days)                once a month
                                                        Maintenance of fences     Report on maintenance
                         substation                                              -  every 2 weeks
                                                        Maintenance of
                         on /dismantling of             Barriers
                         transmission towers
                                                        Maintenance of
                                                        warning signs
                                                        Training / awareness
                         raising in project areas       programs and mock
                                                        drills for all concerned
                                                        varties
Equipment                                               Process, equipment        Phase out schedule to   POWERGRID
specification            systems using                  and system design         be prepared in case
s and design                                                                      still in use- once in a
parameters               including halon, should be                               quarter

              receptor(  of in a manner consistent
              air,       with the requirements of the
              water,     Government

                                                        Required ground           Ground clearance -      POWERGRID Operations
n line                   comply with the limits of      clearance(meters)         once
maintenance
              agnetic    overhead power lines
              interferen

             -Substation             sited and dcsigncd
                                                  -                               Noise level at          POWERGRID Operations
related       to         to ensure noise will not be a                            boundary nearest to
              neighbori  nuisance                                                 properties and
              ng                                                                  consultation with
              propertie                                                           affected parties if any



