El 065
VOL. 7
Power Grid Corporation of              At
India Limited
Initial Environment Assessment Report of
Eastern Region System- Strengthening
Scheme-I



CONTENTS
SECTION-I          PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                           PAGE
I_                                                                                1-2
Backqround                                                    1
Scope of work                                                 1
Benefits of the project                                       2
SECTION- Il        BASE LINE DATA                                                3-11
West Bengal                                                   3
Jharkhand                                                     5
Orissa                                                        7
SECTION -1II       POLICY, LEGAL & REGULATORY FRAME WORK                         12-16
Environmental                                                 12
Social                                                        14
SECTION- IV        POWERGRID APPROACH FOR ROUTE SELECTION                        17-23
Route selection                                               17
Route alignment of 400KV, D/C, Durgapur-Jamshedpur Trans. line  19
Route alignment of 400KV,DC, Jamshedpur-BaripadaTrans. line   20
Route alignment of 400KV,DC, Baripada-Mendhasal Trans. line   21
SECTION- V         SCREENING OF POTENTIAL IMPACT & MITIGATIVE                    24-34
MEASURES
Impact due to project location                                24
Environmental problem due to design                           27
Environmental problems during construction                    28
Environmental problems resulting from operation               30
Critical environmental review criteria                        31
Public consultation                                           32
Conclusion                                                    34
SECTION- VI        MONITORING AND ORGANISATIONAL SUPPORT                         35-52
STRUCTURE
Corporate level                                               35
Regional level                                                36
Site office                                                   36
Environment Management Plan                                   37-52
ENCLOSURES
Annexure I-Il
Map - 1-6
Figure - 1



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-Il
SECTION 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(Eastern Region System       Strengthening Scheme-I)
1.0   Background
The CEA study reveals that Eastern Region will be surplus in power to the tune of
3500MW by 2009-10 due to addition of power generation. It is, therefore required to
strengthen the transmission grid of Eastern Region in order to transmit the additional
surplus power.
Accordingly, the following transmission system has been proposed which would
transmit the surplus power from Eastern part of the Eastern Region grid to the central
areas from where it would get further transmitted through the existing transmission
system:
*          Durgapur (PG) - Jamshedpur 400 kV D/c line
*          Jamshedpur - Baripada 400 kV D/c line
*          Baripada - Mendasal 400 kV D/c line
1.1   Project Highlights
a) Project Name      : Eastern Region Strengthening Scheme-I
b) Location          : West Bengal, Jharkhand, Orissa and Bihar in Eastern
Region.
c)  Beneficiary States : Eastern Region constituents
d) Cost              : Rs.733.32 Crores
1.2   Scope of work
The scope of work covered under the project broadly includes the construction of
following transmission lines, substation and other associated works:
Transmission Lines
Durgapur (PG) - Jamshedpur 400 kV D/c line         :181 Km
Jamshedpur - Baripada 400 kV D/c line              : 135 Km
Baripada - Chandaka (Mendhasal) 400kV D/c line     : 255 Km
Re-conductoring of Siliguri - Purnea 400 kV D/c line with twin INVAR Moose conductor
175 Km
Extension of Substations
a) Jamshedpur 400/220 kV sub-station
b) Durgapur 400/220 kV sub-station
c) Baripada 400/220/132 kV sub-station
d) Re-conductoring of 400 KV bays including dismantling & replacement of
equipment and associated work at Siliguri and Purnea
1



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I 4
1.3 Benefits of the project
The system will strengthen transmission system of Eastern Regions. It will facilitate
inter-state trading of exportable power of State sector generation apart from bulk power
from the central sector stations. It will help to maintain system stability, security of the
combined grid under all operating conditions. The system will also increase the
capacity of National Grid
1.4   Beneficiaries
The target beneficiaries of this project are the Constituent States of Eastern Region
Grid.
A power map showing the Eastern Region System Strengthening Scheme-I, is
placed as Exihibit-1.
2



-_                 _ _ _ _ _ _ -)          -a , -a a -   - -
3*O                                 0.^S S  ,t4StOZZ0-9D 9C  toISs.OZZ&  0-
cC^           I         41>= ac~AI                      ~c



SECTION-II
BASE LINE DATA



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  V
SECTION II: BASE LINE DATA
2.0   The project is an inter-state one and is spread/located in the States of West
Bengal, Jharkhand, Orissa; the basic details of the area under project are given below:
2.1 West Bengal
West Bengal is strategically placed with three international frontiers - Bangladesh,
Nepal and Bhutan. A hinge between the bulk of Indian territory and the north-east of
the country, West Bengal is located at 21031' and 27014' North Latitude at the head of
the Bay of Bengal and 86035' and 89053' East Longitude, with the Tropic of Cancer
running through it. West Bengal stretches from the Himalayas to the Bay of Bengal. Its
1600-km long frontier with Bangladesh, neither natural nor well defined, has in recent
years been a source of tension. It also has borders with Nepal and Bhutan.
The State of West Bengal situated in the eastern part of the country between the
Himalayas in the north and Bay of Bengal in the south where mighty river. Ganga
meets the ocean forming well-known mangrove forests in Sundarbans, mainly
embraces the fertile alluvial gangetic plains.
Physiography
Its northern part comprises the sub-Himalayan region called the Terai, while the rest of
the state forms part of the Indo-Gangetic plain. The course of the river Ganga, much of
which lies now in Bangladesh, has for centuries been shifting eastward. Very little of its
water now goes to the sea via its western distributaries, the principal one being the
Hooghly that flows by Calcutta. The deep alluvial soil of the Gangetic plain in West
Bengal         is       very        suitable       for         agriculture.
The Terai region has some of the finest tea plantations in India. From the Terai, the
Himalayan mountain ranges rise abruptly along the state's northern boundary. Mount
Kanchenjunga     overlooks     Darjeeling   in     north-west     Bengal.
Climate
West Bengal has a tropical climate. The plains are hot except during the short winter
season. The mountainous region in the north is cold on account of its altitude but there
humidity is high. The classical tradition speaks of six seasons-springs, summer, the
Rainy, autumn, mild winter and severe winter. Only four clearly marked seasons with a
brief interregnum of spring are observed, namely the hot season, the rainy season, the
post monsoon season corresponding to autumn and the cold season. At nights, cool
southerly breeze carrying moisture from the Bay of Bengal is usually present.
3



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Rainfall
The average rainfall in the State is 1750 mm. In the Himalayan Region i.e in northern
part the average rainfall ranges from 2500 - 6000 mm. In the southern part average
rainfall ranges from 1125 - 1900 mm.
Temperature
The hot season lasts from mid-March to mid-June, with the day temperature ranging
from 380 C to 450C in different parts of the state. Winter, which lasts about three
months, is mild over the plains, the average minimum temperature isl 50 C.
Soil
The soil patterns in the state are Tarai Soil and Gangetic Alluvium - found in northern
part of the state along the border of Nepal.
Minerals
Minerals, like rock phosphate, fire clay, iron, limestone, copper, silica, quartz,
manganese and sandstone are found in a considerable amount in the state
Water resources
The State of West Bengal falls under 3 major River Basins:
* The Brahmaputra Basin - Part of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Coochbihar
districts
* The Ganga Basin - Part of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and all the remaining
districts
* The Subarnarekha Basin - Parts of Purulia, E&W Medinipur district.
Forests
The recorded forest area is 11,879 km (sq.) which constitutes 13.4% of the geographic
area of the state.  By lepal status, the Reserved Forest constitutes 7,054 kM2,
Protected Forest 3,772 km . and Unclassed Forest 1,053 km2. Forest Map of West
Bengal is enclosed as Map-1.
There are eight forest types in the West Bengal. These are eight forest types in the
state. They are Tropical Semi Evergreen, Tropical Moist Deciduous. Tropical Dry
Deciduous, Subtropical Broadleaved Hill, Subtropical Pine, Himalayan Moist
Temperate,  Wet Temperate, Littoral and Swamp forests.   Forests are mainly
distributed in the north, south west and south-east.
4



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I W
Protected area
There are 5 National Parks and 16 Wildlife sanctuaries covering an area of 0.28 million
ha. It constitutes 3.15% of the geographic area of the state. The state has 2 tiger
reserves namely Sundarbans and Buxa. Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve is one of the
11 Biosphere Reserves of the country. Sunderbans National Park is also a World
Heritage site.
Human and Economic Development
The geographic area of the state is 88,752 km2 which is 2.7% of the country's
geographic area. The human population of the state is 80.22 million, constituting 7.8%
of the country's population, of which 72.0% is rural and 28.0% urban. The average
population density is 904 persons per km. The tribal population is 5.6% of the state's
population. The livestock population is 47.09 million, which is 7.5% of the country's
livestock population. The State ranks 6th amongst States/UTs in terms of percentage of
area under tree cover. Minerals, like rock phosphate, fire clay, iron, limestone, copper,
silica, quartz, manganese and sandstone are found in a considerable amount in the
state. As a result, a few industries related to these are being established in the state.
Steel and alloy steel plants in Durgapur and another steel plant in Burnpur are some of
the important industries of the state. Other industries include jute, tea, cotton textiles,
automobiles, bicycle, footwear, leather, paper, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, aluminum,
sugar, timber processing, ceramic, glass, bone metal, and dairy.
Agriculture dominates both the landscape and the economy. Fifty-five percent of the
population of West Bengal depends upon agriculture. In fact, agriculture makes a
substantial contribution to the state's income. West Bengal accounts for 57.3% of the
total jute and 24% of the total tea produced in the country. Pulses, oilseeds, barley,
maize, betel leaf, tobacco and sugarcane are some of the other agricultural products of
West Bengal. Moreover, there are several multipurpose irrigation schemes in West
Bengal, namely, the Damodar Valley, Mayurakshi, Kangsbati and Subarnarekha
Barrage. The irrigation schemes are Teesta-Mahananda link canal in Jalpaiguri district,
Terageria and Turga irrigation scheme in Purulia, Hinlow irrigation scheme in Birbhum
district   and      Sohajare     scheme       in     Bankura     district.
86035'
2.1   Jharkhand
Jharkhand, carved out from Bihar, accounts for 45% of former Bihar's geographical
area. It lies between lat 220 00' and 240 37' N and long. 830 15' and 870 01' E. The
State is bordered by Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal to its north,
south and east respectively. The geographical area of the state is 79,714 Km2, About
28 % of the population of this area is tribal. The new State Jharkhand formerly a part of
Bihar state, was formed on November 15th, 2000 with Ranchi as its capital. Jharkhand
is the 28th state of the Indian Union.
Physiographically it consists of both plateau and hills.  Santhalparganas and
Chhotanagpur is main plateau about 3000 feet above sea level. The highest part of the
plateau is Netarhat which has an elevation of 3600 ft. The Parasnath Hill is the highest
point with an elevation of 4800 feet. The plateau is full of mountain ranges covered with
5



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
dense forests. A number of rivers and rivulet flow down through the hilly terrains and
valleys.
Climate: The climatic condition is generally Sub-Tropical wet and dry.
Rainfall: The mean annual rainfall varies between 100-200 Cms.
Temperature: The annual temperature varies between 20-35 ° C.
Soil: Generally mixed red and black soil along with yellow soils in few pockets is
encountered in the state.
Minerals:- Jharkhand is endowed with vast natural resources specially the vast variety
of minerals ranging from Iron ore, Coal, Copper ore, Mica, Bauxite, Fire clay, Graphite,
Kyanite, Sillimanite, Lime stone, Uranium & other minerals. Jharkhand is the leading
producer of mineral wealth in the country.
Water Resources:- Rivers, tanks and groundwater are the main sources of water in
State Jharkhand. Damodar, Mayurakshi, Barakar, Koyal, Sankh, Sone, Auranga, More,
Karo, Bansloi, South Koel, Kharkai, Swarna Rekha, Ganga, Gumani, Batane are some
of the perennial river veins meandering through the State.
Forest: - Total geographic area of state is 79,714 Km2 Covered forest area is 28.4%
of total geographical area .Dense forest is 11,787 Km2 & open forest 10,850 Km2.
Total forest covered area is 22637 Km2. The State has following three forest types:
* Tropical Moist Deciduous
* Tropical Dry Deciduous
* Sub Tropical Broadleaved Hill Forests
Forest covers slightly more than one third of the geographical area of Jharkhand (Map-
2). The state is rich in forest resources having Sal and Teak as the two most important
forest formations.
Protected area
There is 1 National Park and 10 Wildlife Sanctuaries in the state. They cover an area
of 0.21 million ha. Constituting 2.58% of the total geographic area of the state. Palamu
tiger reserve is located in the state.
Human and Economic Development
Jharkhand's economy is sustained by mining and heavy industry. It is India's second
most important source of coal mining. In minerals Jharkhand is probably India's richest
state. Jharkhand has rich reserves of iron ore and coal and several industries.
Minerals, forest produce and agricultural land constitute the principal resource base of
Jharkhand. Other factors adding to strength of the economy are moderate climate,
adequate availability of surface and ground water, presence of a number of Industrial
giants, technical institutions and cheap labour. Nearly 80 per cent of the State's
population depends on agriculture. With varied agro-climatic conditions, Jharkhand
provides scope for production of a wide range of agricultural/horticultural crops, spices
and medicinal plants
6



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
The largest four cities are Jameshedpur, Dhanbad, Ranchi and Bokaro Steel City. The
two major steel plants of India are located in Jharkhand: at Jamshedpur and Bokaro.
Road length: 4, 310 km, including 1,500 km National Highways and 2,711km State
Highways. The state has a well developed railway system. Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad,
Jamshedpur are some of the major railway stations. Agriculture is poorly developed.
Irrigation is negligible. Drought therefore is a periodic threat.
2.2   Orissa
The geographic area of Orissa is 15.57 million ha, which constitutes 4.74 % area of the
country. It lies in the tropical zone between lat. 170 47' and 220 34' N and long. 810 22'
and 870 29' E.
Physiography
The state can be divided into four distinct physiographic regions viz. Northern Plateau,
Eastern Ghat, Central table land and coastal plains. The state is drained by three major
rivers, the Mahanadi, the Brahmani and the Baitarni.
On the basis of homogeneity, continuity and physiographical characteristics, Orissa has
been divided into five major morphological regions: the Orissa Coastal Plain in the east,
the Middle Mountainous and Highlands Region, the Central plateaus, the western
rolling uplands and the major flood plains.
Rainfall
The average annual rain fall varies between 1,200 mm to 1,600 mm.
Temperature
The average annual temperature ranges between 250 C to 27.50 C.
Climate
Orissa has an equable climate, neither too hot nor too cold. In some places, however,
extremes of climate are experienced, namely in the Western district like Bolangir,
Sambalpur and Sundergarh. Summer temperature varies between 202C-459C.and
Winter temperature between 1 32C-320C.
Mineral resources
About 80% of the state's landmass is underlain by pre- cambrian rocks, the oldest
rocks in the earth's crust. The remaining area is composed of rocks belonging to
Gondwanas, Quarternary & Recent formations. The geological set up of the state is not
only favourable for discovery of wide variety of valuable ores and minerals but there is
distinct possibility of substantial increase in the resources. The main mineral resources
found in Orissa are coal, Iron & Manganese, Limestone & Dolomite,Bauxite,Nickel,
Manganese, Graphite,Chromite, Serilite Quartzite, Quartz Serilite schist, Serilite schist,
Andalusite schist and genesis,Beach sand, Sand stone and decorative stone etc
7



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I F
Water resources
Orissa is endowed with water in abundance. As per Ground Water Board, the total
ground water resources in Orissa amounted to 2,101,128 hectare meter. There are 4
groups of rivers which flow through Orissa in to Bay of Bengal and thus make Orissa
water rich state. The main rivers are Subarnarekha, Brahmani, Mahanadi,
Budhbalanga, Salandi, Kolab and Indravati etc.
Forest resources
The recorded forest area is 58,136 km (sq.) which constitutes 37.34% of the
geographic area of the state. The forests are uniformly distributed in the state except in
coastal districts where they are scarce. By legal status, the Reserved Forest constitutes
26,329 km , Protected Forest 15,525 km. and Unclassed Forest 16,282 km. Foest
Map       of      Orissa           is       enclosed      as      Map-3.
The State has following forest types:
* Tropical Semi Evergreen,
* Tropical Moist Deciduous,
* Tropical Dry Deciduous,
* Littoral and Swamp Forests.
Protected areas
There are 2 National Parks and 18 Wildlife Sanctuaries covering an area of 0.80 million
ha, which is 5.11% of the geographic area of the state. Similipal National Park, also a
Tiger Reserve has been declared as a Biosphere Reserve. The Gahirmatha Wildlife
sanctuary, a mangrove eco-system, is a famous nesting ground of the Olive Ridley sea
turtle.
In the Orissa the actual forest cover is about 48,366 sq. km. Out of which 28170 sq.
km is dense and 20,196 sq. km is open forest
Human and economic development
In Orissa about 76% population is dependent on agriculture. The major crops are rice,
pulses, oil seeds, jute, sugarcane, coconut and turmeric. The state contributes about
1/10th of rice production in India. But Orissa's agro based economy is always upset by
frequent natural calamities like floods, drought, tornado and cyclone. Orissa's vast
mineral, marine and forest resources provide adequate opportunities for industrial
growth. About 170 large and medium industries along with 9000 small scale industries
are running in the state. Forests have an important role in the economy of the State,
particularly, amongst rural Scheduled castes and Tribal masses. Forestry activities
contribute a lot to their food security and day-to-day livelihood. Forests also sustain the
large sized livestock of about 29.3 million.
The infrastructure for the development of industry in Orissa is available. A combination
of coal, iron ore, limestone, bauxite and a host of other minerals on the one hand and
8



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
port facilities on the other are the unique features in Orissa. In addition, the bountiful
forest resources and agricultural products provide ample scope for the development of
forest-based and agro-based industries.
Iron and steel industry, aluminum, cement, ferromanganese, ferro-chrome, galvanised
pipe units, steel rolling mills and fertilizer plants. Among the other industries beverages,
tobacco, gur and molasses are importani. The tobacco industry is wide spread and
provides     employment      to      large     number      of      persons
Although Orissa has a large cattle population, it imports leather goods .The principal
centres of leather products are Baudh, Bhanjanagar, Bolangir and Keonjhar. Modern
tanneries      have        been       set        up       at       Cuttack.
Oil pressing is a traditional occupation run on caste and family line. Mustard, groundnut,
castor   and   til  seeds    are   the   principal  raw   materials  used.
Some villages specialize in brass products, but owing to competition from the large
manufacturing concerns, especially those manufacturing aluminum utensils, this
cottage industry is decaying. The high price of brass is another handicap.
9



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Details of forest land involvement in Eastern Region Strengthening Scheme-I
Durgapur-Jamshedpur 400KV D/C transmission line will pass through following
districts of WB and Jharkhand. Details of forest cover of these districts are as follows:
Area in Km2
S.    District/     Geograph  Very Dense  Moderatat  Open    Total    Percent (%)
No.                ic Area    Forest      ely dense  dense   Forest
State                                          Forest
1.    Burdwan/ WB  7024       16          74         135     225      3.20
2.    Bankura/ WB   6,882     101         295        584     980      14.24
3.    Purulia/WB   6,259      34          234        496     764      12.21
4.    East          3,533     49          528        346     923      26.13
Singhbhum/
Jharkhand
5.    West   Singh  9,907     446         1,598      1,767   3,811    38.47
bhum/
Jharkhand
Total                                                 6703
Source Forest Survey Report 2003
The above line will involve 17.36 Ha. Statewise break up forest in these two state,
which is about 0.03% of the total forest area of both state.
Jamshedpur-Baripada 400KV D/C, transmission line will pass through following
districts of Jharkhand and Orissa. Details of forest cover of these districts are as
follows:
Area in Km2
S.   District/State   Geogr  Dense   Moder Open      Total  Percent (%)
No.                   aphic  Forest ately   Forest   Forest
Area
1.   West Singh bhum  9,907  446    1,598   1,767    3811           38.47
( Saraikela is part
of        West
Singhbhum)/
Jharkhand
2.    East Singhbhum/  3,533  49     528    346      923            26.13
Jharkhand
3.   Mayurbhanj/      10,418  99     2,910  996      4005           38.44
O rissa                                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total                                          8739         --
Source: Forest survey Report 2003
The above line will involve 6.9 Ha. State wise break up forest in these two states, which
is about 0.008% of the total forest area of both state.
10



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  q
Baripada-Mendhasal transmission line (Orissa portion) will pass through following
districts of Orissa. Details of forest cover of these districts are as follows:
Area in Km2
Sr.   District/State   Geograph   Dense     Moderate  Open      Total    Percent (%/6)
ic Area    Forest   ly         Forest    Forest
No.
1.    Mayurbhanj/Orissa  10,418   99        2,910     996       4005       38.44
2.    Balasore/Orissa  3,806      0         154       155       309         8.12
3.    Bhadrak/Orissa   2,505      0         22        7         29          1.16
4.    Jaipur/Orissa    2,899      0         82        180       262         9.04
5.    Cuttack/Orissa   3,932      0         265       359       624        15.87
6.    Khurda/Orissa    2,813      0         211       151       362        12.87
Total                                                     5591
Source: Forest survey report 2003
The above lines will involve 125.58 Ha. forest in Orissa, which is about 0.23% of the
total forest area .
11



SECTION-Ill
POLICY, LEGAL & REGULATORY
FRAME WORK



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
SECTION III: POLICY, LEGAL & REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK
3.0  POWERGRID's activities by their inherent nature and flexibility have negligible
impacts on environmental and social attributes.  Indian laws relating to
environmental and social issues have strengthened in the last decade both due
to local needs and international commitments. POWERGRID undertakes its
activities within the purview of Indian laws keeping in mind appropriate
international obligations and directives and guidelines with respect to
environmental and social considerations of Funding Agencies.
3.1  ENVIRONMENTAL
3.1.1 MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS (NATIONAL)
*     MOP order/sanction under The Electricity Act, 2003:
Sanction of MOP, GOI is a mandatory requirement for taking up any new
transmission project under the section 68(1) of The Electricity Act, 2003. The
sanction authorize POWERGRID to plan and coordinate activities to commission
the new project. Electricity act does not explicitly deal with environmental
implications of activities related to power transmission. However, POWERGRID
always integrates environmental protection within its project activities.
*    Forest Clearance Under The Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980
When transmission projects pass through forest land, clearance has to be
obtained from relevant authorities under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.
This Act was enacted to prevent rapid deforestation and environmental
degradation. State governments cannot de-reserve any forest land or authorize
its use for any non-forest purposes without approval from the Central
government.  POWERGRID projects, when involving forest areas, undergo
detailed review and approval procedures to obtain a Forest Clearance certificate
from MOEF, Government of India before starting any construction activity in
designated forest area.
*    Environmental Clearances under Environment (Protection) Act,1986
Since transmission line projects are environmentally clean and do not involve
any disposal of solid waste, effluents and hazardous substances in land, air and
water they are kept out of the purview of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
However, the recent amendment in the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
made it necessary to obtain clearance from MoEF for power transmission
projects in two districts in the Aravalis (viz., Alwar in Rajasthan and Gurgaon in
Haryana). The Aravali range, in these two areas, is heavily degraded; hence,
any industrial activity there becomes critical. Environment Impact Notification,
1994 lays down specific project categories that require clearance from MoEF
Power transmission projects are not included in this list.
12



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  W
Batteries (Management and Handling) Rules, 2001:
MOEF vide its notification dt. 16th May, 2001 under the section of 6,8 and 25 of
the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 has put certain restriction on disposal of
used batteries and its handling. As per the notification it is the responsibility of
bulk consumer (POWERGRID) to ensure that used batteries are not disposed
of,  in   any   manner.   other  than   by   depositing  with  the
dealer/manufacturer/registered  recycler/importer/reconditioner  or  at the
designated collection centers - and to file half yearly return in prescribed form to
the concerned State Pollution Control Board.
*     Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling)Amendment Rules,
2003:
MOEF vide its notification dt. 20th May, 2003 under the section of 6,8 and 25 of
the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 has put used mineral oil under the
category of hazardous waste which require proper handling and disposal. As per
the notification, all used oil is to be auctioned/sold to registered recyclers only
and file annual return on prescribed form to the concerned State Pollution
Control Board.
*     Ozone Depleting Substances (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000:
MOEF vide its notification dt. 17th July, 2000 under the section of 6, 8 and 25 of
the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 has notified rules for regulation /control
of Ozone Depleting Substances under Montreal Protocol adopted on 16th
September 1987. As per the notification certain control and regulation has been
imposed on manufacturing, import, export and use of these compound.
POWERGRID is following provisions of notification and is phasing out all
equipment which uses these substances and planning to achieve CFC free
organization in near future.
*     The Biological Diversity Act, 2002:
Under the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity signed at Rio de
Janeiro on the 5th day of June, 1992 of which India is also a party, MoEF has
enacted the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 to provide for conservation of
biological diversity, sustainable use of its components and fair and equitable
sharing of the benefits arising out of the use of biological resources, knowledge
and for matters connected therewith. As per the provision of act certain area
which are rich in biodiversity and encompasses unique and representative
ecosystems are identified and designated as Biosphere Reserve to facilitate its
conservation. All restrictions applicable to protected areas like National Park &
Sanctuaries are also applicable to these reserves. POWERGRID will abide by
the provision of act wherever applicable and try to totally avoid these biosphere
reserves while finalizing the route alignment.
3.1.2  FUNDING AGENCIES:
WB Operational Policies (OP) 4.01/ADB's Operations Manuals (OM)- F1/BP
and JBIC Environmental Guidelines: These outlines funding agencies policy
13



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I t
and procedures for environmental assessment (EA) of different developmental
projects. All these guidelines classified developmental projects into three
categories (A-C) based on its possible environmental and social impacts though
WB & ADB has another category Fl applicable only to projects involving a credit
line through a financial intermediary.
Transmission line projects are categorized as category-B project having limited
impact that can be further minimized through mitigative/management measures
and would normally require only an environmental review. POWERGRID takes
remedial measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse
impact and improve environmental performance. Environment Assessment will
take account the natural environment, human health and safety, and social
aspects and trans- boundary and global environmental aspects. During EA
process public is also informed at every stage of project execution and their
views are considered during decision-making process.
3.1.3 PRESCRIPTIVE FRAMEWORK (NATIONAL)
*   Constitutional Guarantees
*   Applicable Legislations
3.1.4 RELEVANT POLICIES
*   National Conservation Strategy and Policy Statement
on Environment and Development, 1992
*   Policy statement for Abatement of pollution, 1992
3.2.0 SOCIAL
3.2.1  MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS (NATIONAL)
National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation for Project Affected
Families: Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India has notified a
National policy on R&R for PAFs in Feb'04 applicable to all developmental
projects where 500 or more families enmass in plain areas or 250 or more
families enmass in hilly areas are displaced due to project activity. It essentially
addresses the need to provide succour to the assetless rural poor, support the
rehabilitation efforts of the resources and provide a broad canvas for an effective
consultation between PAFs and authorities responsible for their R&R. It has also
listed R&R measures and entitlements for different category of PAFs. Though
the National policy as such is not applicable to POWERGRID because
transmission projects do not involve displacement of such a large numbers of
families since land required for substations is quite small. However, the
entitlement benefits listed in the National policy for PAFs have been adopted by
POWERGRID in its "Social Entitlement Framework" that is being implemented
wherever land acquisition for substations is undertaken.
14



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Rights of Way And Compensation Under Electricity Act,2003:
The act has a provision for notifying transmission company under section 164
(B) to avail benefits of eminent domain provided under the Indian Telegraph Act,
1885. MOP, GOI vide gazette notification dt 23rd Dec'03 had already notified
POWERGRID under this section of said act. Therefore, for the purpose of
placing of any wires, poles, etc., POWERGRID has all the powers that the
telegraph authority possesses. Thus, POWERGRID can erect and construct
towers without actually acquiring the land.  However, all damages due to
POWERGRID activity are compensated at market rate. Power transmission
schemes are always planned in such a way that the power of eminent domain is
exercised responsibly.
*     Provisions Under Land Acquisition Act, 1894, as amended in 1984:
When land is acquired for sub-stations, POWERGRID will follow procedures laid
down under the Land Acquisition Act (LA Act), 1894. POWERGRID sub-stations
have never resulted in large scale displacement or loss of livelihoods. There
have been only marginal impacts due to flexibility exercised by POWERGRID in
selecting sites. The LA Act specifies that in all cases of land acquisition, no
award of land can be made by the government authorities unless all
compensation has been paid.
3.2.2 FUNDING AGENCIES
For POWERGRID, mandatory requirements vis-a-vis Funding Agencies are
comprehensive Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) guidelines and an
entitlement framework as per World Bank Operational Directives 4.30 (OP-4.12)
and 4.20 and ADB's Operations Manual OM-F2/BP.
*     World Bank OD 4.30 (OP-4.12): Involuntary Resettlement:
This directive describes Bank Policy and procedures on involuntary resettlement
as well as conditions that borrowers are expected to meet during operations
involving resettlement of affected groups. It requires a entitlement framework
aimed at restoration, replacement and participation of affected groups. A
detailed social assessment and development of an action plan having list of
measures for betterment/restoration of lost assets/income is required to be
submitted to bank before start of project work. However where only a few people
(e.g. about 100-200 individuals) are to be relocated at a particular location,
appropriate compensation for assets, logistical support for moving and a
relocation grant may be the only requirements but the principle on which
compensation is to be based will remain same as for larger groups.
*     World Bank OD 4.20: Indigenous People (IP):
This directive describes World Bank policies and procedures for projects that
affect indigenous people. The objective is to ensure that development benefits
are socially and culturally compatible and that the IPs are consulted. Thus, the
Indigenous People Development Plan/Tribal Development Plan is to be
prepared as a prerequisite. POWERGRID will not only incorporate the IP
15



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
component whenever necessary, but will also pay attention to marginalized
groups such as women, children, etc.
ADB Operations Manual -F2/BP: Involuntary Resettlement:
The OP describes Bank Policy and procedures on involuntary resettlement as
well as conditions that borrowers are expected to meet during operations
involving resettlement. Its objective is to avoid such resettlement as far as
possible if unavoidable measures like assistance to affected persons for
restoration of their assets/livelihood as would have been in the absence of
project. It also classified project into three categories like category-A where
resettlement is significant and involve physical displacement of more than 200
persons, which require a detailed resettlement plan. Category-B where
resettlement is not that significant and requires a short resettlement plan.
Category-C where no resettlement of peoples are foreseen and neither require
neither resettlement plan nor a resettlement framework.
POWERGRID emphasizes that displacement is not an issue with transmission
projects because land below tower/line is not acquired and only a small piece of
land is required for substations. However, all affected persons/families shall be
provided compensation and rehabilitation assistance along with other measures
as per POWERGRID's social entitlement framework which is based on these
directives/manuals and National R&R Policy to restore income/livelihood of all
affected persons.
3.2.3 PRESCRIPTIVE FRAMEWORK (NATIONAL)
*  Constitutional Guarantees
*   National and State-wide Laws and Policies Relating
to Land Acquisition and Issues of R&R
* Madhya Pradesh Pariyojana Ke Karan Visthapit Vyakti (Punsthapan)
Adhiniyam, 1985
* Maharashtra Project Affected persons Rehabilitation Act, 1986
3.2.4 RELEVANT POLICIES
*  The Orissa Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons
Policy, 1994 (water resources projects)
*   Resettlement & Rehabilitation Policy - NTPC
16



SECTION-IV
POWERGRID APPROACH FOR
ROUTE SELECTION



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
SECTION-IV: POWERGRID APPROACH FOR
ROUTE SELECTION
4.0 ROUTE SELECTION - (ASSESSMENT & MANAGEMENT PROCESS}
At the system planning stage itself one of the factors that govern the evolution of
system is the possible infringement with the forest. Wherever such infringements
are substantial, different alternative options are considered. The route/ site selection
criteria followed by POWERGRID is detailed below:
While identifying the transmission system for a generation project or as a part of
National Power Grid, preliminary route selection is done by POWERGRID based on
the topo sheets of Survey of India and Forest Atlas (Govt. of India's Publication).
Further optimization is done during detailed survey using GIS/GPS. During route
alignment all possible efforts are made to avoid the forest area involvement
completely or to keep it to the barest minimum, whenever it becomes unavoidable
due to the geography of terrain or heavy cost involved in avoiding it.
4.1 STUDY OF ALTERNATIVES
Environmental Criteria for Route selection
For selection of optimum route, the following points are taken into consideration:
(i)   The route of the proposed transmission lines does not involve any human
rehabilitation.
(ii)  Any monument of cultural or historical importance is not affected by the route
of the transmission line.
(iii)  The proposed route of transmission line does not create any threat to the
survival of any community with special reference to Tribal Community.
(iv)  The proposed route of transmission line does not affect any public utility
services like playgrounds, schools, other establishments etc.
(v)  The line route does not pass through any sanctuaries, National Park etc.
(vi)  The line route does not infringe with area of natural resources.
In order to achieve this, POWERGRID undertakes route selection for individual
transmission lines in close consultation with representatives from the Ministry of
Environment and Forests and the Department of Revenue. Although under National
law POWERGRID has right of eminent domain yet alternative alignments are
considered keeping in mind the above-mentioned factors during site selection, with
minor alterations often added to avoid environmentally sensitive areas and
settlements at execution stage.
* As a rule, alignments are generally cited 10-15 km away from major towns,
whenever possible, to account for future urban expansion.
17



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
* Similarly, forests are avoided to the extent possible, and when it is not possible, a
route is selected in consultation with the local Divisional Forest Officer, that causes
minimum damage to existing forest resources.
* Alignments are selected to avoid wetlands and unstable areas for both financial and
environmental reasons.
In addition, care is also taken to avoid National parks and sanctuaries and any other
forest area rich in wild life.
Keeping above in mind the routes of proposed line under this transmission System
has been so aligned that it takes care of above factors. As such different
alternatives were studied with the help of Govt. published data like Forest atlas,
Survey of India topo maps etc. to arrive at most optimum route which can be taken
up for detailed survey using GIS/GPS and assessment of environmental & social
impacts for their proper management.
18



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  W
4.2    Evaluation of alternatives Route Alignment of 400 KV D/C Durgapur
-Jamshedpur Transmission line
Three different alignments (Map-4) were studied with the help of published data/maps
and walkover survey to arrive at most optimum route for detailed survey. The
comparative details of these three alternatives are as follows:
SI.No.         Description        Alternative-I      Alternative-lI  Alternative-lIl
1       Route Particulars
i.      Length(Kms)               170.08             177.00         178.00
ii.     Terrain
a       Hilly/Plain(Kms)          2.2/167.88         2.2/174.8      2.2/175.8
b       Wet/Marshy
c       Estuarine
d       Other type of land
2       Environment Details
i.      Name of district/district details  Burdwan, Bankura,  Burdwan,  Burdwan, Bankura,
(through which transmission  Purulia (WB) and  Bankura, Purulia  Purulia (WB) and
line pass)                 Poorv Singhbum,   (WB) and Poorv  Poorv Singhbum,
Paschim           Singhbum,       Paschim
Singhbhum         Paschim         Singhbhum
(Jharkhand)       Singhbhum       (Jharkhand)
(Jharkhand)
ii.     Town in alignment (Near By)  Durgapur,       Durgapur,      Durgapur, Bankura,
Bankura,          Bankura,        Jamshedpur
Jamshedpur        Jamshedpur
iii.    Forest in Km/Ha.          3.773 Kms/         12.900 Kms/    18.870 Kms/
17.36Ha.          59.34Ha.        86.8OHa.
(including 1.25 Km  (3.75 Km wild  (4.00 Km wild life)
wild life)        life)
iv.     Type of Forest
Reserved/protected/mangrov     Protected        Protected        Protected
el
Wild life area/biosphere
reserve/any other
environment
v.      Density of forest                0.4              0.5              0.4
vi.     Type of Fauna & Flora      Palash,Khashi,    Palash,Khashi,  Palash,Khash
Arjun, Siris etc and  Arjun, Siris etc  Arjun, Siris etc and
fox, jackal,      and fox, jackal  fox, jackal elephant
elephant etc.     elephant etc.   etc.
vii.    Endangered species if any        Nil               Nil              Nil
viii.   Historical/Cultural monument     Nil               Nil              Nil
ix.     Any other relevant
information
3       Compensation Cost
i)      Crop                      Rs.62.03 lacs      Rs.61.209 lacs  Rs.59.36 lacs
fi)     Forest                    Rs.1 65.48 lacs    Rs.565.63 lacs  Rs.827.38 lacs
4.      No. of Crossing
i)      Railway                           6                6                6
jii)     Power Line                       18               18               18
iii)    River Xingetc                     1                1                1
5.      Construction problem      Approachable,      Difficult to   Difficult to
roads are available  approach     approach
6.      O&M problem               Not anticipated    Due to difficult to  Due to difficult to
approaches,     approaches,
I_construction   construction
19



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  -
problem         problem anticipated
anticipated
7.      Overall Remarks            1. Easily         Poor            Poor
approachable      communication   communication
2.1nvolvement of  facilities for  facilities for
less forest area  construction of  construction of
EHV             EHV transmission
transmission line  line
It may be seen from above that Alternative-I is the most optimum route as the line
length is shorter than Alt. II & Ill. Alt-I involves less forest and less wild life area (1.25
Kms) in comparison than 11 (3.75 Km Wild life area) & III (4.0 Km Wild life area). Alt. I is
approachable. Hence Alternative-I has been found to be most optimum and
recommended for detailed survey.
4.3 Evaluation of alternatives Route Alignment of 400 KV D/C Jamshedpur-
Baripada Transmission line
Three different alignments (Map-5) were studied with the help of published data/maps
and walkover survey to arrive at most optimum route for detailed survey. The
comparative details of these four alternatives are as follows:
SL.N   DESCRIPTION        ALIGNMENT-I       ALIGNMENT-Il      ALIGNMENT-Ill
0.
01     Route particulars
i.     Length(in Kms)     133.5             137               138
ii.    State
ii.    Terrain
a.     Hilly/Plain in (Kms)  Hilly-NIL      Hilly - 4.35      Hilly - NIL
b.     Agriculture        118.260 km        110               109
c.     Wet/marshy
d.     Estuarine
e.     Other type of land
02     Environmental
Details
i      Name           of Seraikela-         Seraikela-        Seraikela-Kharswan
district/District  Kharsawan         Kharswan          (Jharkahand)       East
details  (Through  (Jharkahand) East (Jharkahand) East singhbhum   (Jharkahand)
which transmission  Singhbhum        singhbhum         Mayurbhanj (Orissa)
line pass)         (Jharkahand)      (Jharkahand)
Mayuibhanj        Mayurbhanj
(Orissa)          (Orissa)
.ii    Town in Alignment Jamshedpur         Jamshedpur        Jamshedpur
(Near By)          Jadugoda          Jadugoda          Jadugoda
Ghatshilla        Ghatshilla        Ghatshilla
Baharagora        Baharagora        Baharagora
Baripada          Baripada          Baripada
iii.   House within ROW   NIL               NIL               NIL
iv.    Forest in Km./Ha   1.5/6.9           1.5/6.9           3.0/13.8
v.     Type of forest     PF/RF- NIL)       PF/               PF/RF
Reserve protected/
Mangrove/Wild life
area    /Biosphere
reserve / any other
environment
20



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
sensitive area
vi.    Density of forest  < 0.6             < 0.6             < 0.7
vii.   Type of Fauna      Sal, Kondu, Malwa  Sal, Kondu, Malwa  Sal, Kondu, Malwa
viii.  Flora              Fox, Wolf,        Fox, Wolf,        Fox, Wolf,
Reptiles, Monkey  Reptiles, Monkey  Reptiles, Monkey
ix.    Endangered species NIL               NIL               NIL
if any
x.     Historical/Cultural  NIL             NIL               NIL
monument
f)     Any other relevant NIL               NIL               NIL
information
03     Compensation
cost__                _ _ _ _ _ _  _
i.     Crop.              Rs.49.236 lacs    Rs.50.54 lacs     Rs.53.36 lacs
ii.    Forest & NPV       Rs.65.70 lacs     Rs.65.70 lacs     Rs.131.54 lacs
04     No. of Crossing
i      Railway            06                06                03
ii     Power line         09
iii    River Xing etc.    (132   KV    and
above             10                10
04
05     Construction       Very less as rnost Comparatively    Fewe problems as there is
Problem            of the   part is more problem   as  no hilly terrain
approachable and  approach      is
near to  National difficult for many
Highway           parts
06     O&M Problem        Very less as most Comparatively     Less  problems  as this
of the   part is more problem   as  consists   of    mainly
approachable and  this  consists  of agricultural land
near to  National hilly terrain  and
Highway           approach      is
difficult
It may be seen from above that Alternative-I is the most optimum route as the line
length is the shorter than Alternative I&l11. Alt-I involves less forest in comparison than
Alt. 111. Forest density is also less in comparison than Alt. 11 and Alt. 111. It passes near to
National Highways and easily approachable in comparison to other alternatives. Hence,
Alternative-I has been found to be most optimum and recommended for detailed
survey.
4.4 Evaluation of alternatives Route Alignment of 400 KV, D/C
Baripada-Mendhasal Transmission line
Three different alignments (Map-6) were studied with the help of published data/maps
and walkover survey to arrive at most optimum route for detailed survey. The
comparative details of these four alternatives are as follows:
SL.N    DESCRIPTION         ALT - I            ALT - Il               ALT - IlIl
1    Route
Particulars
i.   Length (in Kms)       267.51             313.00                 265.39
ii.  IState          I_I
ii.  Terrain             Hilly & Plain      Hilly & Plain          Hilly & Plain
21



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  4
2    Environment
Details
i.   Name        of     Mayurbhanj     Mayurbhanj Balsore    Mayurbhanj Balsore
district/District  Balsore Bhadrak  Bhadrak Jaipur     Bhadrak Jaipur Cuttack
details (Through  Jaipur Cuttack    Cuttack Khurda           Khurda
which                Khurda
transmission line
pass)
ii.  Town in             Baripada,     Baripada, Anadapur,   Baripada, Anadapur,
alignment           Anadapur,          Bhadrak,       Balasore, Soro,Bhadrak,
(Nearby)        Balasore, Bhadrak,   Bhubaneswar         Jaipur, Panikoli,
Jaipur, Cuttack,                       Chandikhol,Cuttack,
Bhubaneswar.                             Bhubaneswar
iii.  House within          Nil                2                     11
ROW
iv.   Forest in Km/Ha  27.295 Km/1 25.58  71.295 km/328.03   67.745 km/ 311.69 Ha
Ha.                Ha.              (Wild life path)
(Including 120   (Including 1.30Km
meter wild life )    Wild life)
v.   Type of forest    Revenue forest,    Revenue forest,  Wild Life Zone, Protected
village forest     village forest   forest, Revenue forest,
village forest, Similipal
Biosphere
vi.  Density of forest     0.15               0.22                  0.3
vii.  Type of flora   Sal, Kendu, Mahua  Sal, Kendu, Mahua  Sal, Piasal, sandalwood,
etc.              etc.               Kendu, Herbal plant etc.
viii  Type of fauna   Fox,       Wolf, Fox, Wolf, Reptiles, Fox,  Wolf,   Reptiles,
Reptiles, Monkeys, Monkeys, Elephant  Monkeys, Elephant
Elephant
ix   Endangered             Nil               Wolf         Tiger, Elephants, Peacock
species if any                                                 etc.
x    Historical/Cultural   NIL                NIL           03 No. of Old Temples
monuments
xi.   Any other                                             Naxlalite dominated area
relevant                                              and may create problem
information, if                                          during construction
any
3    Compensation
Cost
(Rs. In Lakhs)
i) Crop/Trees     Rs.89.596 lacs     Rs.90.156 lacs        Rs.73.72 lacs
ii) Forest and   Rs.1 197.02 lacs   Rs.3126.78 lacs       Rs.2971.02 lacs
NPV
4    No. of Crossing        28                37                    20
i)   Railway                5                  5                     5
ii)   Trans. Line           13                 13                    7
iii)  River crossing         4                 6                     6
etc.
5.   Construction    1. Easily approach  1. Vehicle movement  1. Heavily populated patch;
Problem              to line.     for transporting the  may create ROW problem
2. Well connectivity  construction material  during construction.
through pacca   shall be very difficult.  2. House within ROW.
road & moron road  2. House with ROW    3. Wildlife Sanctuary
involves.
4. 03 no. of old temples are
in ROW.
6.   O&M Problem     1. Easily approach  1. Very remote area.  1. Modferate approach
22



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
to TL       2. Vehicle movement    road available.
2. Well connectivity  may be restricted
through pacca    during monsoon
road & moron road     season.
It may be seen from above that Alternative-I is the most optimum route as the line
length is the shorter than Alternative II and longer than Alt-Ill. Alt-I involves less forest
(including wild life area 120 meters) in comparison than Alt. II (involve 1.30 Km wild life
area) & Alt. Ill. Forest density is also less in comparison than Alt. II and Alt. Ill. It
passes near to National Highways and easily approachable in comparison to other
alternatives. Hence, Alternative-I has been found to be most optimum and
recommended for detailed survey.
23



SECTION-V
SCREENING OF POTENTIAL IMPACT
&
MITIGATIVE MEASURE



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
SECTION-V: SCREENING OF POTENTIAL
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, EVALUATION
AND ITS MANAGEMENT
5.0  Impact Due to Project Location and Design
Environmental impact of transmission line projects are not far reaching and are mostly
localized to ROW. However, transmission line project has some affects on natural and
socio-culture resources. These impacts can be minimized by careful route selection. In
order to get latest information and further optimization of route modern survey
techniques/tools like GIS, GPS aerial photography are also applied. Introduction of
GIS and GPS in route selection result in access to updated/latest information, through
satellite images and further optimization of route having minimal environmental impact.
Moreover, availability of various details, constraints like topographical and geotechnical
details, forest and environmental details etc. help in planning the effective mitigative
measures including engineering variations depending upon the site situation/location.
In the instant project also these techniques are used. All possible measures have been
taken during the finalization of route alignment for the proposed transmission system
but due to peculiarity of terrain and demography of the area where project is being
implemented, some environmental impacts may be there. The explanations in brief with
regard to specific environment review criteria based on preliminary survey are as
follows:
(i) Resettlement
As described earlier all measures are undertaken by POWERGRID at line routing stage
itself to avoid settlements such as cities, villages etc. It may be seen from the above
description of proposed route alignment and also keeping in mind that no land is
acquired for tower foundation as per existing law, the project does not require any
resettlement of villagers.
The proposed project does not envisage construction of any new substation and only
extension of bays at existing substation is involved. Land for such extension is already
available for proposed bays in these existing substations. Hence no fresh land
acquisition or R&R issues are involved in the proposed projects.
(ii} Land value depreciation
Based on past experience land prices are generally expected to rise in the areas
receiving power. Further, transmission lines generally pass through uninhabited area,
agriculture fields and forests, where the land-use is not going to change in foreseeable
future. Therefore, the value of land will not be adversely affected to a significant
degree.
24



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
(iii) Historical/cultural monuments/value
As per the POWERGRID's policy of route selection only that route alignment is
finalized this avoids all the historical and cultural monuments. As per the preliminary
assessment carried out during finalization of route alignment in consultation with State
revenue authorities and Archeological Survey of India (ASI), no such monuments are
coming in the proposed route alignment.
(iv) Encroachment into precious ecological areas
As already explained all precautions have been taken to avoid routing of line through
forest and ecological sensitive areas and National park/Sanctuaries. However,
complete avoidance of forest area and wild life area was not possible in Durgapur-
Jamshedpur and Baripada-Mendhasal transmission lines and wildlife area is not
involved in Jamshedpur-Baripada line though some forests are involved. The routes of
proposed transmission line are so finalized that it affects minimum forest area and
wildlife area in consultation with forest department. Out of total transmission lines
length of about 571 Kms about 33 Kms ( 5.78%) length shall pass through forest
land consisting of 148 Ha. forest area in the states of West Bengal, Jharkhand
and Orissa.
Durgapur-Jamshedpur transmission line shall pass (about 1.25 Kms) through Dalma
Wild life Sanctuary. In this portion this line would be accommodated on multi ckt. Tower
in the existing Right Of Way (ROW) of Maithan -Jamshedpur line. Existing tower of
Maithan-Jamshedpur line would be replaced by multi circuit tower and no fresh land
would be required in the wild life area. Baripada -Mendhasal line encounters 120
meters stretch of Chandaka Wild life sanctuary (near Mendhasal) i.e. wildlife corridor.
This would be crossed overhead with about 400m span and with increased tower
height for more ground clearance due to safe movement of wildlife animal if there is
any. As such no tower shall be constructed/ installed in this portion of wildlife sanctuary
except crossing overhead. Prior approval of GOI/MOEF shall be obtained for affected
forest under Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 after detail survey and finalization of route
through forest area in consultation with local forest authorities. Most of the forests to
be traversed by the lines are already heavily degraded and the wildlife species
present are those who have been adapted to open or disturbed habitat.
Therefore with provision of Compensatory Afforestation the overall forest status will
in many cases improve. Nonetheless, to mitigate losses to existing forests, clearing
of the transmission line Right-of-way will be done under supervision of Forest
Department, and some low canopy seed trees and shrubs may be kept intact if
they do not interfere with tower erection and line installation. The wood will be sold
by the Forest Department, who will also retain the sale proceeds. Three-meter wide
strips of land under each conductor will be cleared and maintained as maintenance
rows, but the remaining land will be allowed to regenerate. Lopping of trees to maintain
line clearance will be done under the direction of Forest Department. POWERGRID will
provide construction crews with fuel wood or alternative fuels as a precaution against
collection of fuel wood from nearby forest.
Transmission lines can serve as new access routes into previously inaccessible or
poorly accessible forests, thereby accelerating forest and wildlife loss. In such cases,
25



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
POWERGRID cannot take action itself, but local Forest Department personnel will
normally assess the dangers and take appropriate action, such as establishing guard
stations at the entrance to the forest etc. cost of which is borne by POWERGRID and is
included in the compensatory afforestation scheme. Given the already easy access and
degraded conditions at the proposed projects sites, this problem is not expected to be
encountered. Nonetheless, POWERGRID staff will report to the Forest Department
any noticeable encroachment induced by the Projects.
Budget provision of Rs.1428 lakhs has been kept in the cost estimate to meet the
requirement of Compensatory Afforestation and Net Present Value (NPV).
(v)  Encroachment into other valuable lands
Impacts on agricultural land will be restricted to the construction phase and when large-
scale maintenance measures are required. Some stretch of the line will pass through
Agricultural fields. Agricultural land will be lost at the base of the tower, which is
estimated to be 0.2-1 sq. m per average farm holding (Fig-1). It is estimated that for
Durgapur-Jamshedpur 400 KV D/C line of 170 Km a total of 510 towers shall be
required which may impact land area of 0.0510ha. and for Jamshedpur-Baripada 400
KV line of 133 Km a total of 399 towers are required resulting in loss of 0.0399 ha. In
case of Baripada-Mendhasal 400KV transmission line of 268 Km a total of 804 towers
shall be required which may impact land area of 0.0804 ha. The total land loss
estimated to be about 0.1713ha. which is negligible and will not adversely affect the
land holding.
In areas where lines will traverse agricultural land, compensation will be paid to owners
for any crop damage incurred as a result of construction activities. POWERGRID field
staff will consult affected villagers and local revenue department and apprise him about
the project and tower location, which shall be erected in the agricultural land, for
compensation. Revenue department, after evaluating the loss due to construction
activity and productivity of land, arrives at the compensation cost that is paid to farmer.
Agricultural activities will be allowed to continue following the construction period. If
bunds or other on-farm works are disturbed during construction or maintenance, they
will be restored to the owner's satisfaction following cessation of construction or
maintenance activities. In the event that private trees are felled during construction or
maintenance operations, compensation will be paid to the owner in an amount
determined by the estimated loss of products from the tree over an eight year period
(for fruit bearing trees) and for other trees compensation is finalized in consultation with
local forest authorities. Agricultural lands under private ownership will be identified, and
in accordance with normal POWERGRID procedures compensation will be paid to the
affected villagers. Budgetary provision Rs. 200.36 lakh is made in the cost estimate to
meet these expenses.
(vi) Interference with other utilities and traffic
As per regulations enacted by Government of India, it is mandatory for POWERGRID
to  seek  clearance  prior to  construction  from  department of  Railways,
Telecommunications and wherever necessary from aviation authorities that are likely to
be affected by the construction of transmission lines. The transmission lines affect
nearby telecommunication circuits by causing electrical interference.  A standing
committee -- Power Telecom Co-ordination Committee (P.T.C.C.) has been constituted
by Government of India to plan and implement the mitigating measures for the induced
26



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
voltage which may occur to nearby telecom circuit and suggest necessary protection
measures to be adopted. The committee suggests measures like rerouting of the
telecom circuits, conversion of overhead telecom circuits into cables etc. to minimize
the interference.
The cost of such measures is determined by the Committee and is shared by
POWERGRID and Telecom Department on the basis of prevailing norms and
guidelines. Though the exact cost to mitigate the impacts of induction in neighboring
telecom circuits would vary from case to case, the cost on an average works out to be
Rs.50000/- per km for POWERGRID. Provision to meet these expenses has been
made in the cost estimate for the same.
Wherever transmission line crosses the railways, clearance is taken from that
department. In general, the system is planned and executed in such a way that
adequate clearance is maintained between transmission lines on the one hand, and
railways, civil aviation and defense installations on the other.  Wherever the
transmission lines pass by the airports the towers beyond specified height are painted
in alternate orange and white stripes for easy visibility and warning lights are placed
atop these towers.
(vii) Interference with drainage pattern
As the transmission lines are constructed aerially and the blockage of ground surface is
limited to area of tower footings, which is very small, there is little possibility of affecting
drainage pattern. In the infrequent instances where the drainage is affected, flow will
be trained and guided to safe zones.
5.1   Environmental Problems Due to Design
(i)  Escape of polluting materials
The equipments installed on lines and substations are static in nature and do not
generate any fumes or waste materials.
(ii) Explosion/fire hazards
During the survey and site selection for transmission lines and sub-stations, it has been
ensured that these are kept away from oil/gas pipelines and other sites with potential
for creating explosions or fires.
Fires due to flashover from lines can be a more serious problem in forest. However,
adequate safety measures shall be taken to avoid such incidence besides this forest
authorities also incorporate measures like making fire lines to prevent spreading of fire
in the affected forest area.
(iii) Erosion hazards due to inadequate provision for resurfacing of exposed area
Adequate measures are taken to re-surface the area where excavation works are done.
Topsoil disturbed during the development of sites will be used to restore the surface of
27



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
the platform. Infertile and rocky material will be dumped at carefully selected dumping
areas and used as fill for tower foundations.
(iv) Environmental aesthetics
Since spacing between the towers in case of 400 KV lines is approx. 330-400 meters
these will not affect the visual aesthetics of the localities particularly when it is ensured
to route the lines as far away from the localities as possible. POWERGRID takes up
plantation of trees to buffer the visual effect around its substations and to provide better
living conditions. Wherever POWERGRID feels it appropriate, discussions will be held
with local Forest Department officials to determine feasibility of planting trees along
roads running parallel to transmission lines to buffer visual effect in these areas. In
addition, towers may be painted grey or green to merge with the background.
(v) Noise/vibration nuisances
The equipment installed at sub-station are mostly static and are so designed that the
noise level always remains within permissible limits i.e. 85 dB as per Indian standards.
The noise levels reported during normal operating conditions are about 60 to 70 dB at 2
m. distance from the equipment. To contain the noise level within the permissible limits
whenever noise level increases beyond permissible limits, measures like providing
sound and vibration dampers and rectification of equipment are undertaken.  In
addition, plantations of sound absorbing species like Casuarinas, Tamarind, and Neem
are raised at the sub-stations that reduce the sound level appreciably. It is reported that
93 m3 of woodland can reduce the noise level by 8 dB. Actual noise levels measured
at perimeters of existing Substations are 20 to 30 dB.
(vi) Blockage of wildlife passage
The lines are passing through mostly agricultural, wasteland and forests. Durgapur-
Jameshedpur line will be accommodated in existing Right of Way of Maithan-
Jameshpur line in Dalma wildlife sanctuary with multi-circuit tall towers. Additional
corridor will not be involved. Baripada - Mendhasal line will cross Chandaka wildlife
sanctuary (120 Meter) near Mendhasal. No tower will be constructed within Chandaka
wild life sanctuary area and this stretch (120 Meter) shall be crossed overhead with a
span of 400meter approx. with tall tower. Hence possibilities of disturbance to wildlife
are remote.
5.2  Environmental Problems during Construction Phase
(i)  Uncontrolled silt runoff
The Project involves only small scale excavation for tower foundations at scattered
locations that are re-filled with excavated material therefore uncontrolled silt run off is
not expected.
28



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
(ii) Nuisance to nearby properties
As already described in preceding paras, during site selection due care is taken to keep
the transmission line and substations away from settlements. Further, all the con-
struction activities will be undertaken through the use of small mechanical devices e.g.
tractors and manual labour therefore nuisance to the nearby properties if any, is not
expected.
(iii) Interference with utilities and traffic and blockage of access way
Access to the site will be along existing roads or village paths; minor improvements to
paths may be made where necessary, but no major construction of roads will be
necessary either during construction or as a part of maintenance procedures.
As and when a transmission line crosses any road/ railways line, the terminal towers
are located at sufficient distance so as not to cause any hindrance to the movement of
traffic. Stringing at the construction stage is carried out during lean traffic period in
consultation with the concerned authorities and angle towers are planted to facilitate
execution of work in different stages.
(iv) Inadequate resurfacing for erosion control
The proposed lines are to be constructed in plain area where erosion problem is not
anticipated. However, if due to terrain at some points transmission towers may be
placed on slopes and erosion prone soils internationally accepted engineering practices
will be undertaken to prevent soil erosion. This will include cutting and filling slopes
wherever necessary. The back cut slopes and downhill slopes will be treated with
revetments. As explained above adequate steps shall be taken to resurface the area
after construction. Wherever sites are affected by active erosion or landslides, both
biological and engineering treatment will be carried out, e.g. provision of breast walls
and retaining walls, and sowing soil binding grasses around the site. Furthermore,
construction is generally undertaken outside the rainy season.
(v) Inadequate disposition of borrow area
As mentioned earlier the transmission tower foundations involve excavations on small
scale basis and the excavated soil is utilized for back filling. In case of substations
generally the sites are selected in such a manner that the volume of cutting is equal to
volume of filling avoiding borrowing of the area.
(vi) Protection of Worker's health/safety
The Safety Regulations/Safety Manual published by POWERGRID, and included in
tender documents will guide provisions for workers' health and safety. Various aspects
such as, work and safety regulations, workmen's compensation, insurance are
adequately covered under the Erection Conditions of Contract (ECC), a part of bidding
documents.
29



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
In addition training is imparted to the workers in fire fighting and safety measures.
Safety tools like helmet, safety belt, gloves etc. are provided to them in accordance to
the provisions of Safety Manual. First aid facilities will be made available with the
labour gangs, and doctors called in from nearby towns when necessary. The number
of outside (skilled) labourers will be quite small, of the order of 25-30 people per group.
The remaining workforce of unskilled labourers will be comprised of local people.
Workers are also covered by the statutory Workmen (Compensation) Act.
POWERGRID has a dedicated unit to oversee all health and safety aspects of its
project  under  the  Operation  Service  Deptt.  POWERGRID     has  framed
guidelines/checklist for workers' safety as its personnel are exposed to live EHV
apparatus and transmission lines. These guidelines/checklist include work permits and
safety precautions for work on the transmission lines both during construction and
operation (Annexure-l) and is monitored regularly by site in-charge and corporate
Operation Services.
5.3  Environmental Problems Resulting from Operation
(i)  O&M Staff/Skills less than acceptable resulting in variety of adverse effects
The O&M program in POWERGRID is normally implemented by sub-station personnel
for both, the lines as well as sub-stations. However in respect of the long distance
transmission lines there are monitoring offices that are located at various points en-
route. Monitoring measures employed include patrolling and thermo-vision scanning.
The supervisors and managers entrusted with O&M responsibilities are intensively
trained for necessary skills and expertise for handling these aspects.
A monthly preventive maintenance program will be carried out to disclose problems
related to cooling oil, gaskets, circuit breakers, vibration measurements, contact
resistance, condensers, air handling units, electrical panels and compressors. Any sign
of soil erosion is also reported and rectified. Monitoring results are published monthly,
including a report of corrective action taken and a schedule for future action.
POWERGRID is following the approved international standards and design, which are
absolutely safe. Based on the studies carried out by different countries on the safety of
EHV lines in reference to EMF affect POWERGRID have also carried out such studies
with the help of PTI, USA and CPRI, Bangalore on their design. The studies inferred
that the POWERGRID design are safe and follow the required international standard.
Because of issues relating to need to ensure health and safety relating to the line such
as fire safety, safe voltages on metallic parts of buildings, and safety clearances to
avoid flashover, the transmission lines will not pass directly over any residential
properties and as such the potential for EMF effects to occur will be further diminished.
Given that it will be necessary to ensure that there are no properties in the ROW
beneath and to the sides of the overhead line, automatic mitigation against EMF will be
provided between the source of potentially high strengths (the transmission line) and
the residential properties.
Poly Chlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) due to its high heat capacity, low flammability and
low electrical conductivity was extensively used as insulating material in capacitors and
30



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
transformers. But after the finding that these PCBs are non-biodegradable and has
carcinogenic tendency, its use in electrical equipments as insulating medium has been
banned all over the world long back. However, it has been reported in some studies
that chances of contamination of oil with PCB is possible. Keeping that in mind,
POWERGRID has taken all possible steps in association with NGC, UK and setup
Regional testing laboratories for testing of existing oil for PCB traces and results of this
suggests that PCB contamination is not an issue with POWERGRID. The World Bank
has also made following comments after a detailed study on Management of PCBs in
India:
"Power Grid was the most advanced in testing for PCBs of the organizations
visited for this project. They have established a procedure for identification of
the presence of PCBs in transformer oil and more detailed analysis for positive
identification sample. To date no significant concentrations of PCBs have been
detected. Power Grid does not appear to have any significant issues regarding
PCB management and have initiated a testing program. The experience &
laboratories of Power Grid could be used to provide a national PCB auditing
service".
5.4  CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CRITERIA
(i) Loss of irreplaceable resources
The transmission projects do not involve any large scale excavation and land is lost to
the extent of 0.2-1 sq m only for each foundation. As only 5.78 % of the lines in the
subject project are passing through forest area and the said forest is degraded, the
problem of losing natural resources in this project is not envisaged. Moreover, on the
other hand with the provision of raising compensatory afforestation on double the area
getting affected will increase the forest cover.
(ii) Accelerated use of resources for short-term gains
The project will not be making use of any natural resources occurring in the area during
construction as well as maintenance phases. The construction material such as tower
members, cement etc shall come from factories while the excavated soil shall be used
for backfilling to restore the surface. Thus the project shall not cause any accelerated
use of resources for short term gains.
(iii) Endangering of species
No endangered species of flora and fauna exist in the project area. There is no
possibility of endangering/causing extinction of any species.
(iv) Promoting undesirable rural-to urban migration
The project will not cause any submergence or loss of land holdings that normally
trigger migration. It also does not involve acquisition of any private land holdings.
Hence, there is no possibility of any migration.
31



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I A
5.6  PUBLIC CONSULTATION
Public consultation/information is an integral part of the project implementation. Public
is informed about the project at every stage of execution. During survey also
POWERGRID's site officials meet people and inform them about the routing of
transmission lines. During the construction, every individual, on whose land tower is
erected and people affected by ROW, are consulted.
Apart from this, public consultation using different technique like Public Meeting, Small
Group Meeting, informal Meeting  as  per  Environmental Social Policy  &
Procedures of POWERGRID (ESPP) shall also be carried out during different
activities of project cycle. During such consultation the public will be informed about the
project in general and in particular about the following:
* complete project plan (i.e. its route and terminating point and substations, if any, in
between);
* POWERGRID design standards in relation to approved international standards;
* Health impacts in relation to EMF;
* Measures taken to avoid public utilities such as school, hospitals, etc.;
* Other impacts associated with transmission lines and POWERGRID's approach to
minimizing and solving them;
* Land acquisition details, proposed R&R measures and compensation packages in
line with POWERGRID's policy;
* Trees and crop compensation process.
Apart from organising many informal group meetings in different villages (Table-5.1)
public meeting were also organised in the routes of transmission lines. To get the
maximum participation during the Public consultation Program a notice was served well
in advance to the villagers is enclosed as Annexure-l1. The details of lines and its
importance were explained to the villagers. Photographs of public consultation are
enclosed as Plate-1. The program was arranged in interactive way and queries like crop
compensation, route alignment etc. were replied. Most of the participants were small
farmers and were worried about their land through which the line will pass. They were
informed that POWERGRID will not acquire their land for construction of transmission
lines. Only towers will be spotted in their fields where they can do farming without any
fear because the tower height is very high and even tractor can pass below the tower.
Moreover, there is no risk of passing current from the above line as there is foolproof
system of earthing for tower. The consultation process was appreciated by the
villagers. They were happy to know about the transparent policy of POWERGRID for
execution of the project and promised to extend their cooperation during construction of
the line. The process of such consultation and its documentation shall continue during
project implementation and even during O&M stage.
32



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Table 5.1
Informal Group Meeting
Si.   Name of         Date of      No. of      Name of village   Remarks
No.   transmission    meeting      villagers
line                         attended
1.       Durgapur-    04.09.02     30          Nachan            The people from all
Jamshedpur                                                sphere of life such as
400 KV D/C                                               farmers, teachers,
05.09.06                 Ballavpur         servicemen etc.
11.09.06     25         Kenjakura          attended the meeting
12.09.06     35         Tarapur
20.09.06     20          Puncha
-                  =   21.09.06     27         Ragma
10.10.06     30         Katjore
11.10.06     24          Pendrabera
2.    Jamshedpur-     10.01.07     07          Jhargobindpur     Village panchayat
Baripada 400 KV                                            representatives,
D/C line                                                   teachers, villagers
02.        -do-       10.01.07     09          Ramasa            were contacted and
03.        -do-       10.01.07     12          Rajgaun           explained regarding
04.        -do-       11.01.07     09          Brindabanpur      this project during
05.        -do-       11.01.07     08          Hitku             these consultations.
06.        -do-       14.01.07     10          Ulda
07.        -do-       14.01.07     09          Jagannath khunta
08.        -do-       14.01.07     12          Kendudiha
3.       Baripada-    20.10.06     10          Ambadubhi         Free electricity, road
Mendhasal 400                                              path during
KV D/C                                                 construction and
2.         -do-       23.10.06     11          Naripur           O&M stage,
3           -do-      28.10.06     12          Dulapatna         Compensation for
4           -do-      02.11.06     9           Gedama            Crop/tree were main
5           -do-      07.11.06     12          Mantir            concerned which was
6           -do-      08.11.06     9           Alian             clarified during the
7           -do-      10.11.06     7           Chandaka          meetng
8           -do-      12.11.06     8           Bajabati
9           -do-      19.11.06     6           SanaMunduli
33



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
5.7  Conclusions
From the above discussion, it would seem that the area is rich in physical resources.
But careful route selection has minimized involvement of forest area to the extent
possible but could not be completely avoided due to terrain and other physiographical
reasons. Thus, routes selected for detailed survey are the most optimum alignment
and involved minimum forest and no R&R issues are anticipated as no fresh land
acquisition is involved and only extension of existing substations within the existing
boundary is involved. The existing tower of Maithan -Jamshedpur transmission line
would be upgraded to multi Ckt tower in Dalma Wild Life sanctuary. The proposed
Durgapur - Jamshedpur transmission line would be accommodated on upgraded multi
ckt tower in Dalma wild life area. No extra/fresh wild life area/forest area would be
required for construction of transmission line in wild life area. In case of Baripada-
Mendhasal line no tower would be constructed in wild life area as it is only 120 meter
wide strip which would be crossed aerially with tall towers (2 nos.-400 meters apart).
Hence, based on the criteria agreed with The Bank the project is coming under the B
category or non sensitive as only 5.78% of total length is passing through forest, which
is already degraded in nature and no major impact on wild life is envisaged as the
forest is not the habitat of any endangered or endemic sp. of fauna and flora. The
infrastructural constraints are very real and pose a limiting factor on the development of
the area.  The above facts while on the one hand underline the need for
implementation of the project for overall development of the area and on another hand
suggest that a detailed E.I.A. may not be necessary.
34



SECTION-VI
MONITORING
AND'
ORGANISATIONAL SUPPORT
STRUCTUR



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-!
SECTION-VI: MONITORING AND ORGANISATIONAL
SUPPORT STRUCTURE
6.0   ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM IN POWERGRID:
Monitoring is a continuous process for POWERGRID projects at all the stages be it the
site selection, construction or maintenance.
The success of POWERGRID lies in its strong monitoring systems. Apart from the site
managers reviewing the progress on daily basis regular project review meetings are
held at least on monthly basis which is chaired by Executive Director of the region
wherein apart from construction issues the environmental aspects of the projects are
discussed and remedial measures taken wherever required. The exceptions of these
meetings are submitted to the Directors and Chairman and Managing Director of the
Corporation. The progress of various on-going projects is also informed to the Board of
Directors. Following is the organization support system for proper implementation and
monitoring of Environmental & Social Management Plan:
6.1  Corporate Level
An Environmental Management Cell at corporate level was created within
POWERGRID in 1992 and subsequently upgraded to an Environment Management
Department (EMD) in 1993 and in 1997 it has been further upgraded to Environment &
Social Management Deptt. (ESMD) by incorporating social aspect of project. Briefly,
the ESMD's responsibilities are as follows:
*     Advising and coordinating RHQs and Site to carry out environmental and
social surveys for new projects.
*     Assisting RHQs and site to finalize routes of entire power transmission
line considering environmental and social factors that could arise enroute
*     Help RHQs and Site to follow-up with the state forest offices and other
state departments in expediting forest clearances and the land acquisition
process of various ongoing and new projects
*     Act as a focal point for interaction with the MOEF for expediting forest
clearances and follow-ups with the Ministry of Power.
*     Imparts training to POWERGRID's RHQs & site Officials on environment
and social issues and their management plan.
6.2  Regional Level
At its Regional Office POWERGRID has a Environmental and Social Management cell
(ESMC) to manage Environmental and Social issues and to coordinate between
ESMD at the Corporate level and the Construction Area Office (CAO). The key
functions envisaged for ESMC are:
35



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I W
*     Advising and coordinating field offices to carry out environmental and
social surveys for new projects envisaged in the Corporate Investment
Plan
*    Assisting the ESMD and CAO to finalise routes of entire power
transmission lines considering the environmental and social factors that
could arise en-route
*    To follow-up forest clearances and land acquisition processes with state
forest offices and other state departments for various ongoing and new
projects
*     Acting as a focal point for interaction with the ESMD and CAOs on
various environmental and social aspects.
6.3   Site Office
At the Site level , POWERGRID has made the head of the CAOs responsible for
implementing the Environmental and Social aspect of project and are termed as
Environmental and Social Management Team (ESMT) . Key functions of the ESMT
are:
*     Conduct surveys on environmental and social aspects to finalise the route
for the power transmission projects
*     Conduct surveys for the sites to being considered for land acquisition
*     Interact with the Forest Departments to make the forest proposal and
follow it up for MOEF clearance.
*     Interact with Revenue Authorities for land acquisition and follow it up with
Authorised Agencies for implementation of Social Management Plan
(SMP).
*     Implementation of Environment Management Plan (EMP) and SMP
*     Monitoring of EMP and SMP and producing periodic reports on the same.
It may be noted that POWERGRID is well equipped to implement and monitor its
environment and Social Management plans.
As regards monitoring of impacts on ecological resources particularly in Forest,
Sanctuary or National Park , it is generally done by the concerned Divisional Forest
Officer, Chief Wildlife Warden and their staff as a part of their normal duties. A
monitoring system (done by the Forest Department) is also in place for compensatory
forests established as part of the Project. A detailed Environment Management Plan
(EMP) including monitoring plan for all possible environmental and social impact
and its proper management has been drawn (Table- 6.1) and will be implemented
during various stage of project execution.
Environmental Review: Periodic review by corporate ESMD and higher management
including review by POWERGRID's CMD of all environmental and social issues is
under taken to ensure that EMP and other measures are implemented at site. Besides
it annual review by independent Auditor under ISO: 14001 shall also be undertaken for
compliance of agreed policy and management plan.
36



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Table-6.1 Environment Management Plan
Project activity  Potential    Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
.                  measure                               frequency
Pre-construction
Location of     Exposure to    Setback of dwellings Tower location and  Setback  POWERGRID     Part of tower
transmission    safety related  to overhead line  line alignment   distances to                siting survey
towers and      risks          route designed in  selection with   nearest                     and detailed
transmission line              accordance with   respect to nearest  houses - once             alignment
alignment and                  permitted level of  dwellings                                   survey and
design                         power frequency                                                 design
and the regulation
of supervision at
sites.
Equipment       Release of     PCBs not used in  Transformer design  Exclusion of  POWERGRID   Part of tender
specifications  chemicals and  substation                          PCBs in                     specifications
and design      gases in      transformers or                      transformers                for the
parameters      receptors (air,  other project                     stated in                   equipment
water, land)  facilities or                        tender
equipment.                          specification -
once
Processes,         Process,         Exclusion of  POWERGRID     Part of tender
equipment and      equipment and    CFCs stated in              specifications
systems not to use  system design   tender                      for the
chlorofluorocarbons                  specification -            equipment
(CFCs), including                   once
halon, and their use,
if any, in existing
37



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  t
Project activity  Potential   Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact         mitigation            monitored         and       responsibility schedule
measure                              frequency
processes and                       Phase out                  Part of
systems should be                   schedule to be             equipment and
phased out and to                   prepared in                process design
be disposed of in a                 case still in
manner consistent                   use - once
with the
requirements of the
Government
Transmission line Exposure to  Transmission line  Electromagnetic  Line design  POWERGRID    Part of detailed
design          electromagnetic design to comply  field strength for  compliance             alignment
interference  with the limits of  proposed line   with relevant              survey and
electromagnetic   design            standards -                design
interference from                   once
overhead power
lines
Location of    Impact on      Consideration of  Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID  Part of tower
transmission    water bodies  tower location at  line alignment   with local                 siting survey
towers and      and land      where they could be selection (distance  authorities and       and detailed
transmission line             located to avoid  to water bodies.  avoiding tower             alignment
alignment and                 water bodies                        foundation in              survey and
design                                                            water bodies               design
Social        Careful route      Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID  Part of detailed
inequities    selection to avoid  line alignment  with local                 tower siting and
existing settlements  selection (distance  authorities and     alignment
to nearest       land owners -               survey and
dwellings or social  once                    design
institutions)
38



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential   Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact          mitigation           monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Minimise need to  Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID   Part of detailed
acquire agricultural  line alignment  with local               tower siting and
land              selection (distance  authorities and         alignment
to agricultural land) land owners -          survey and
once                       design
Encroachment    Loss of       Avoid encroachment Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID  Part of detailed
into precious   precious      by careful site and  line alignment  with local                 siting and
ecological areas  ecological  alignment selection  selection (distance  forest                alignment
values/ damage                   to nearest        authorities to             survey /design
to precious                      designated        avoid/minimize
species                          ecological        forest
protection area)  involvement -
once
Transmission line Deforestation  Avoid encroachment Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID  Part of detailed
through         and loss of   by careful site and  line alignment  with local                 siting and
forestland      biodiversity  alignment selection  selection (distance  authorities -         alignment
-                  to nearest        once                       survey/design
Minimise the need  protected or     Consultation
by using existing  reserved forest)  with local
towers, tall towers                 authorities and
and RoW, wherever                   design
possible                            engineers -
once
Obtain statutory   Statutory approvals Compliance
clearances from the  from Government  with
Government                          regulations -
once for each
subproject L
39



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential    Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Encroachment    Loss of        Use existing tower  Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID  Part of detailed
into farmland   agricultural  footings/towers    line alignment    with local                  alignment
productivity   wherever possible  selection        authorities and             survey and
design                      design
engineers -
once
Avoid siting new   Tower location and  Consultation             Part of detailed
towers on farmland  line alignment   with local                 siting and
wherever feasible  selection         authorities and            alignment
design                      survey /design
engineers -
once
Farmers            Design of        Consultation                Prior to
compensated for   Implementation of  with affected              construction
any permanent loss  Crop             parties - once             phase
of productive land  Compensation     in a quarter
(based on affected
area)
Farmers/landowners  Design of       Consultation                Prior to
compensated for   Implementation of  with affected              construction
significant trees that Tree compensation  parties - once        phase
need to be trimmed/ (estimated area to  in a quarter
removed along      be
RoW.              trimmed/removed)
40



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential   Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage          impact        mitigation            monitored         and      responsibility schedule
measure                              frequency
Statutory approvals Compliance               Part of detailed
for tree trimming  with                     sitting and
/removal          regulations -              alignment
once for each              survey /design
subproject
Interference with  Flooding   Appropriate siting of Tower location and  Consultation  POWERGRID  Part of detailed
drainage       hazards/loss of towers to avoid  line alignment   with local                 alignment
patterns/Irrigation agricultural  channel interference selection (distance  authorities and  survey and
channels       production                       to nearest flood  design                     design
zone)             engineers -
once
Construction
Equipment layout Noise and    Construction      Construction     Construction  POWERGRID     Construction
and installation  vibrations  techniques and    techniques and   techniques    (Contractor   period
machinery selection  machinery      and machinery through
seeking to minimize                creating      contract
ground disturbance.                 minimal      provisions)
ground
disturbance -
once at the
start of each
construction
phase
Physical       Disturbed      Construction      Timing of start of  Crop       POWERGRID    Construction
construction   farming activity  activities on  construction     disturbance -  (Contractor  period
cropping land timed                 Post harvest  through
to avoid disturbance                as soon as   contract
of field crops (within              possible but  provisions)
41



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential   Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                              frequency
one month of                        before next
harvest wherever                    crop - once
possible).                          per site
Mechanized      Noise, vibration  Construction  Construction      Complaints    POWERGRID    Construction
construction    and operator  equipment to be   equipment -       received by   (Contractor  period
safety, efficient well maintained.  estimated noise  local      through
operation                        emissions         authorities -  contract
every 2 weeks  provisions)
Noise,        Turning off plant not Construction  Complaints    POWERGRID     Construction
vibration,    in use.            equipment -       received by  (Contractor   period
equipment                        estimated noise  local         through
wear and tear                    emissions and     authorities -  contract
operating         every 2 weeks provisions)
schedules
Construction of  Increase in  Existing roads and  Access roads,   Use of        POWERGRID     Construction
roads for       airborne dust  tracks used for   routes (length and  established  (Contractor  period
accessibility   particles     construction and   width of new     roads         through
maintenance access access roads to be  wherever   contract
to the line wherever  constructed)  possible -    provisions)
possible.                           every 2 weeks
Temporary       Overflows,    Temporary         Temporary fill    Absence of fill POWERGRID   Construction
blockage of     reduced       placement of fill in  placement (m3)  in sensitive  (Contractor  period
utilities       discharge     drains/canals not                   drainage     through
permitted.                          areas - every  contract
4 weeks       provisions)
Site clearance  Vegetation    Marking of         Vegetation marking Clearance   POWERGRID     Construction
vegetation to be  and clearance     strictly limited  (Contractor  period
removed prior to  control (area in m2) to target  through
42



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential   Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact         mitigation            monitored         and       responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
clearance, and strict               vegetation -  contract
control on clearing                 every 2 weeks  provisions)
activities to ensure
minimal clearance.
Trimming/cutting  Fire hazards  Trees allowed   Species-specific  Presence of   POWERGRID    Construction
of trees within               growing up to a   tree retention as  target species  (Contractor  period
RoW                           height within the  approved by     in RoW        through
RoW by maintaining  statutory authorities following  contract
adequate clearance  (average and    vegetation    provisions)
between the top of  maximum tree    clearance -
tree and the      height at maturity,  once per site
conductor as per  in meters)
the regulations.
Loss of       Trees that can     Species-specific  Presence of  POWERGRID     Construction
vegetation and  survive pruning to  tree retention as  target species  (Contractor  period
deforestation  comply should be  approved by      in RoW        through
pruned instead of  statutory authorities following  contract
cleared.                            vegetation    provisions)
clearance -
once per site
Felled trees and  Disposal of cleared  Use or     POWERGRID     Construction
other cleared or  vegetation as     intended use  (Contractor  period
pruned vegetation  approved by the  of vegetation  through
to be disposed of as statutory authorities as approved  contract
authorized by the  (area cleared in  by the       provisions)
statutory bodies.  mi2)             statutory
authorities -
_ once per site
43



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  h
Project activity  Potential   Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact          mitigation           monitored          and       responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Wood/vegetation  Loss of      Construction       Illegal wood      Complaints by  POWERGRID   Construction
harvesting      vegetation and  workers prohibited  /vegetation   local people or (Contractor  period
deforestation  from harvesting   harvesting (area in  other evidence through
wood in the project  m2, number of  of illegal    contract
area during their  incidents reported)  harvesting -  provisions)
employment, (apart                  every 2 weeks
from locally
employed staff
continuing current
legal activities).
Surplus         Runoff to cause Soil excavated from  Soil disposal  Acceptable   POWER        Construction
earthwork/soil  water pollution, tower footings  locations and     soil disposal  GRID        period
solid waste    disposed of by    volume (m3)       sites - every 2  (Contractor
disposal       placement along                     weeks        through
roadsides, or at                                  contract
nearby house                                      provisions)
blocks if requested
by landowners.
Tower           Waste disposal  Excess fill from  Location and     Appropriate fill POWERGRID  Construction
construction -                tower foundation   amount (m3)of fill  disposal   (Contractor   period
disposal of                   excavation disposed disposal        locations -    through
surplus                       of next to roads or                  every 2 weeks contract
earthwork/fill                around houses, in                                  provisions)
agreement with the
local community or
landowner.
Storage of      Contamination  Fuel and other    Location of       Fuel storage in POWERGRID  Construction
chemicals and   of receptors   hazardous materials hazardous material appropriate  (Contractor  period
44



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  -
Project activity  Potential    Proposed            Parameter to be   Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation             monitored          and       responsibility schedule
measure                                frequency
materials       (land, water,  securely stored    storage; spill    locations and  through
air)           above high flood   reports (type of  receptacles -  contract
level.             material spilled,  every 2 weeks  provisions)
amount (kg or m3)
and action taken to
control and clean
up spill)
Construction    Noise nuisance  Construction      Timing of          Daytime       POWERGRID     Construction
schedules       to neighbouring  activities only  construction (noise  construction  (Contractor  period
properties     undertaken during  emissions, [dB(a)])  only - every 2  through
the day and local                    weeks          contract
communities                                         provisions)
informed of the
construction
schedule.
Provision of    Contamination  Construction       Amenities for      Presence of   POWERG RID    Construction
facilities for  of receptors   workforce facilities  Workforce facilities  proper  (Contractor   period
construction    (land, water,  to include proper                     sanitation,   through
workers         air)           sanitation, water                     water supply  contract
supply and waste                     and waste      provisions)
disposal facilities.                 disposal
facilities - once
each new
facility
45



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  -
Project activity  Potential    Proposed            Parameter to be   Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation             monitored          and       responsibility schedule
measure                                frequency
Encroachment    Loss of        Use existing access  Usage of existing  Complaints  POWERGRID     Construction
into farmland   agricultural   roads wherever     utilities         received by   (Contractor    period
productivity   possible                             local people  through
Ensure existing    Status of existing  /authorities -  contract
irrigation facilities  facilities    every 4 weeks  provisions)
are maintained in
working condition
Protect /preserve  Status of facilities
topsoil and reinstate (earthwork in m3)
after construction
completed
Repair /reinstate  Status of facilities
damaged bunds etc  (earthwork in m3)
after construction
completed
Social         Compensation for   Implementation of  Consultation  POWERGRID     Prior to
inequities     temporary loss in  Crop compensation  with affected               construction
agricultural       (amount paid,     parties - once
production         dates, etc.)      in a quarter
Uncontrolled    Soil loss,     Need for access    Design basis and   Incorporating  POWERGRID    Construction
erosion/silt runoff downstream  tracks minimised,  construction      good design   (Contractor   period
siltation;     use of existing    procedures        and            through
roads.             (suspended solids  construction  contract
Limit site clearing to in receiving waters; management  provisions)
work areas         area re-vegetated  practices -
46



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  t
Project activity  Potential    Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Regeneration of   in m ; amount of  once for each
vegetation to      bunds constructed  site
stabilise works    [length in meter,
areas on completion  area in m2, or
(where applicable)  volume in m3])
Avoidance of
excavation in wet
season
Water courses
protected from
siltation through use
of bunds and
sediment ponds
Nuisance to     Losses to      Contract clauses  Contract clauses  Incorporating  POWERGRID    Construction
nearby properties neighbouring  specifying careful                 good          (Contractor   period
land uses/     construction                        construction  through
values         practices.                          management    contract
practices -   provisions)
once for each
site
As much as         Design basis and  Incorporating
possible existing  layout            good design
access ways will be                  engineering
used.                                practices -
once for each
site
47



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  -ir
Project activity  Potential   Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Productive land will  Reinstatement of  Consultation
be reinstated     land status (area  with affected
following completion  affected, m2)  parties - twice
of construction                     - immediately
after
completion of
construction
and after the
first harvest
Social         Compensation will  Implementation  of Consultation  POWERG RID  Prior to
inequities     be paid for loss of  Tree/Crop      with affected              construction
production, if any.  compensation   parties - once
(amount paid)    in a quarter
Health and safety Injury and  Contract provisions  Contract clauses  Contract   POWERGRID     Construction
sickness of    specifying minimum  (number of      clauses      (Contractor   period
workers and    requirements for  incidents and total  compliance -  through
members of the construction camps  lost-work days  once every   contract
public         Contractor to     caused by injuries  quarter     provisions)
prepare and       and sickness)
implement a health
and safety plan.
Contractor to
arrange for health
and safety training
sessions
48



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential    Proposed           Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Inadequate      Likely to     Training of        Training schedules  Number of   POWERGRID     Routinely
construction    maximise       POWERGRID                           programs                    throughout
stage monitoring  damages      environmental                       attended by                 construction
monitoring                          each person -               period
personnel                           once a year
Implementation of  Respective       Submission of
effective          contract checklists  duly
environmental     and remedial      completed
monitoring and     actions taken    checklists of
reporting system  thereof.          all contracts
using checklist of all              for each site -
contractual                         once
environmental
requirements
Appropriate contact  Compliance report  Submission of
clauses to ensure  related to       duly
satisfactory       environmental    completed
implementation of  aspects for the  compliance
contractual        contract          report for each
environmental                       contract - once
mitigation
measures.
Operation and Maintenance
Location of     Exposure to    Setback of dwellings Compliance with  Setback     POWERGRID     During
transmission    safety related  to overhead line  setback distances  distances to              operations
towers and      risks          route designed in  ("as-built"      nearest
transmission line              accordance with   diagrams)         houses - once
alignment and                  permitted level of                  iri quarter
49



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastem Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  i
Project activity  Potential    Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation            monitored          and       responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
design                         power frequency
and the regulation
of supervision at
sites.
Oil spillage    Contamination  Substation         Substatio bunding  Bunding (Oil  POWERGRID    During
of land/nearby  transformers located (Oil sump)     sump)                       operations
water bodies   within secure and  ("as-built"       capacity and
impervious sump    diagrams)         permeability -
areas with a storage                 once
capacity of at least
100% of the
capacity of oil in
transformers and
associated reserve
tanks.
Inadequate     Injury and      Careful design     Usage of          Preparedness  POWERGRID     Design and
provision of    sickness of    using appropriate  appropriate      level for using              operation
staff/workers   staff /workers  technologies to  technologies (lost  these
health and safety              minimise hazards   work days due to  technologies
during operations                                 illness and injuries) in crisis - once
each year
Safety awareness   Training/awareness Number of
raising for staff.  programs and     programs and
50



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I
Project activity  Potential   Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional   Implementation
/stage          impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Preparation of fire  mock drills    percent of staff
emergency action                    /workers
plan and training                   covered -
given to staff on                   once each
implementing                        year
emergency action
plan
Electric Shock  Injury/mortality  Careful design  Usage of         Preparedness  POWERGRID     Design and
Hazards        to staff and    using appropriate  appropriate     level for using              Operation
public        technologies to    technologies      these
minimise hazards   (number of injury  technologies
incidents, lost work in crisis - once
days)             a month
Security fences    Maintenance of   Report on
around substations  fences          maintenance -
Barriers to prevent  Maintenance of  every 2 weeks
climbing           barriers
on/dismantling of
transmission towers
Appropriate warning  Maintenance of
signs on facilities  warning signs
Electricity safety  Training        Number of
awareness raising in /awareness     programs and
project areas      programs and     percent of total
mock drills for all  persons
concerned parties  covered -
once each
year
51



Initial Environment Assessment Report of Eastern Region System- Strengthening Scheme-I  u
Project activity  Potential   Proposed            Parameter to be  Measurement Institutional  Implementation
/stage         impact         mitigation            monitored          and      responsibility schedule
measure                               frequency
Equipment       Release of    Processes,         Process,         Phase out     POWERGRID     Operations
specifications  chemicals and  equipment and     equipment and    schedule to be
and design      gases in      systems using      system design    prepared in
parameters     receptors (air,  cholofluorocarbons                case still in
water, land)  (CFCs), including                    use - once in
halon, should be                    a quarter
phased out and to
be disposed of in a
manner consistent
with the
requirements of the
Government.
Transmission line Exposure to  Transmission line  Required ground  Ground       POWERGRID     Operations
maintenance     electromagnetic design to comply  clearance (meters)  clearance -
interference   with the limits of                  once
electromagnetic
interference from
overhead power
lines
Noise related   Nuisance to   Substations sited  Noise levels     Noise levels at POWERGRID   Operations
neighbouring   and designed to   (dB(a))           boundary
properties     ensure noise will not               nearest to
be a nuisance.                      properties and
consultation
with affected
parties if any -
once
52



ANNEXURE-I
HEALTH & SAFETY CHECKLIST



HEALTH AND SAFETY CHECKLIST
Safety Related Check List during Construction of Transmission Lines
Region: ..... Name of DHQ/GHQ: .............. Date of Safety Audit          ........
Name  of Tr. Line: .......................................................................................................................
Loc. NoLevel: ...............
N am e  of Contractor:  ................................................................................................................
Nam e  of Sub  Contractor:  ........................................................................................................
A. DURING TOWER FOUNDATION:
SN                        Description of Activity                      Feedback     Remarks
I) EXCAVATION:
1.    Dumping of Excavated soil. (Minimum 1.5 Mts. or half the depth of
the pit which ever is more)                                      Yes / No.
2.    Whether angle of repose of soil as per design in the foundation is
maintained or not.                                               Yes / No.
3.    De watering arrangement is available ( If necessary)             Yes / No.
4.    Working area has been protected properly to avoid against fall of
passerby or animal in the excavated pit.                         Yes / No.
5     Shoring & Shuttering to protect the loose rock / soil against fall
exists.                                                          Yes / No.
6     Arrangement of illumination at construction site is available. (if
required )                                                       Yes / No.
7     Check proper/adequate arrangement is made for extension of
electric supply. (Proper size of cable, Use of fuse, No loose    Yes / No.
connection for De-watering Pumps/ Illumination / Electric
compressors etc. if applicable).
8     Check for damage / Uneven settlement of foundation.              Yes / No.
9     Ensure   Life  saver  arrangements  have   been   made   during
construction of well foundation in river bed. (Where necessary)  Yes / No.
10    Check that the adequate arrangement is made for the storage of
blasting material at safe place. (if required)                   Yes / No.
11 Check that the blasting materials is handled with due care at site. ( If
required)                                                        Yes / No.
12    Check that during blasting operation, Labour / Workmen / Passerby
are at safe places and arrangement is made to inform public by   Yes / No.
caution markings (Red Flag) / Public Notices.
13    Check that the Blaster is holding the proper license issued by the
appropriate authority. as per the Indian Explosive Act.          Yes / No.
14    Check that the length of the fuse wire used during blasting operation
is adequate.                                                      Yes / No.



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
is adequate.                                               Yes / No.
15   Ensure Laying of temporary cable used for operation of Machines
used during construction should not cause any danger for Yes / No.
electrocution of workmen.
16   Check that PPEs i.e. Safety helmets, Safety Shoes, is used by blaster
and their gang members during blasting.                    Yes / No.
17   Ensure that Shuttering and timbering has been made as detailed in
I:S: 3764.                                                 Yes/No.
18   Ensure that before undertaking excavation, the soil has been tested
and in case of availability of any explosive / dangerous gas, Yes / No.
necessary arrangement must be made to remove / dilute such gases.
19   The positions of underground installations such as sewers, water
pipes and electrical cables have been verified and in case of their Yes / No.
existence, they must be isolated.
20   Arrangement shall be made to prevent external vibrations due to rail
/ road traffic (If required).                              Yes / No.
21   Safety is ensured during the construction of Tr. Lines for buildings,
structures etc. whicht are coming in the vicinity of the excavated  Yes / No.
area from collapse. ( If required )
22   Check that sufficient strong ladder of suitable length is available for
ingress / outgress of persons in the pit                   Yes / No.
23   Lone worker should not be allowed to work in the excavated area
beyond shoulder level.                                     Yes / No.
24   Check for any possibility of seepage of water from nearby pond /
river should be estimated and taken care of.               Yes / No.
25   After excavation the work has been completed speedily and back
filling done at the earliest.                              Yes / No.
II) CASTING OF FOUNDATION / CONCRETING:
1    Check construction materials are stacked at safe place and also does
not cause any danger. (Away from pit by 1.5 Mtrs. Or half the depth  Yes / No.
of pit, which ever is more. )
2    Check arrangement of illumination at Construction Site. (If
required).                                                 Yes / No.
3    Ensure life saver arrangements have been made during construction
of Well foundation in River Bed.                           Yes / No.
4    Check that the Concreting Mixer machine is placed at a safe place.
(Not very near to pit.)                                    Yes / No.
5    Check proper / adequate arrangement is made for extension of
electric supply. (Proper size of cable, Use of fuse, No loose  Yes / No.
connection for De watering Pumps / Illumination / Electric
compressors etc. if applicable).
6    Check that laying of temporary cables used during construction  Yes / No.
activities should not cause any danger for electrocution to workmen.
7    Inspection of excavations shall be made by a Competent Person
every day. In case, possible cave in or slide is apparent, all working  Yes / No.
in the excavation shall be seized until the necessary precautions



SN                      Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
have been taken to safeguard the possible cave in or slide.
8    Jacks and vertical supports shall be positioned in such a manner that
the vertical loads are distributed equally and do not exceed the  Yes / No.
capacity of the jacks and the jacks are placed away from pit edge
etc.
9    Proper Jacking arrangement is made to take the entire load of
template.                                                   Yes / No.
10   In case of long template in stub setting, more jacks have been
provided and check that the Jacks are placed on levelled and hard  Yes / No.
surface to avoid the unbalancing and fallen.
11   Wire mesh rolls shall be secured in order to prevent dangerous
recoiling action.                                           Yes / No.
12   Lone worker should not be allowed to work in the excavated area.  Yes / No.
13   Check that sufficient strong ladder of suitable length is available for
ingress / outgress of persons in the pit                   Yes / No.
B. TOWER ERECTION:
SN                      Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
1    Check proper communication facility is available at site during
Tower erection. (If required)                               Yes / No.
2.   Check damages or uneven settlement of foundation.           Yes / No.
3.   Ensure the derrick used before tower erection has been checked for
adequate strength/ size. Ensure for copy of test certificate for all the  Yes / No.
lifting machines and tackles.
4.   Ensure that the pulleys used before tower erection has been checked
for adequate strength / proper size (diameter). Also in case of open  Yes / No.
type pulleys proper locking arrangements like providing of Safety
Pin is made. Ensure for copy of test certificate for all the lifting
machines and tackles.
5.   Ensure that the ropes used before tower erection has been checked
for adequate strength / physical condition (Free from break of Yes / No.
strands and knots etc.
6.   Check that the lifting tools and tackles i.e. Winch Machine, Chain
Pulley Block, Trifor, D - Shackle etc. are in healthy condition and  Yes / No.
has been tested periodically. (Attach copy of test certificate).
7.   Ensure that permission has been obtained from Aviation Authority
for erection of special towers. (Where necessary).          Yes / No.
8.   Ensure that permission has been obtained form Aviation Authority
for erection of towers which comes in the vicinity of flying zone. Yes / No.
(Where necessary)
9.   Check that the safety measures has been taken before undertaking
for the Road / Rail / River Xing jobs involving like wise stretches.  Yes / No.
10.  For rail or road crossing check whether written working plan is
available at site with specific reference to safety e.g. local earthing, Yes / No.
skilled & experience manpower, proper T&P, strength and height of
scaffolding to maintain the required clearance etc.



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
11.  Ensure that all the members and proper size of Nuts and Bolts of
lower section are fitted properly before erection of the upper section  Yes / No.
of tower is taken up.
12.  Check that the anti climbing devices are provided in the tower after
erection job.                                              Yes / No.
13.  Check that the danger plates have been provided.           Yes / No.
14.  Check that only erection team members are allowed to stand near
the tower while erection is in process and should wear the safety  Yes / No.
helmet / Safety Shoes.
15.  Working area of the tower has been demarcated during erection.  Yes / No.
16   Check that proper guying arrangement has been made. And also to
see that proper size of the crow bars has been used which has been  Yes / No.
fixed at hard surface in case of sandy soil or loose soil.
17   Check that proper arrangement is made while lifting the tower
members and fixing them at height i.e. Proper size and strength of Yes / No.
the hook used for lifting the tower members.
18   Check sufficient numbers of guys are made while lifting the
assembled cross arm and also avoiding use of single sheeve pulleys Yes / No.
while lifting the assembled cross arm / heavy load.       |
C. CONDUCTOR STRINGING:
SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
1.   All drivers and plant operators are holding the valid driving license.  Yes / No.
2.   Check that the permit has been obtained from the Competent
Authority for stringing of conductor while crossing through Road / Yes / No.
Rail / River / Venerable areas etc. ( Where necessary )
3.   Check that required painting has been made on tower falling in the
vicinity of aviation zones. (Where necessary.)             Yes / No.
4.   Check that all safety measures have been taken during stringing of
conductor crossing the EHV / HV / LT lines (Earthing of existing  Yes / No.
lines etc.)
5.   Ensure that proper size of Nuts and Bolts is rigidly tightened and
punching / tacking / tack welding is done in towers before  Yes / No.
undertaking stringing job.
6.   Ensure that proper scaffolding arrangements made during stringing
of conductor ( While Road Xing / Power Line Xing etc.      Yes / No.
7.   Ensure that all members are fitted in tower before undertaking
conductor stringing work.                                  Yes / No.
8.   Check that the back filling of the foundation has been done as per
specification.                                             Yes / No.
9.   Ensure that the discharge rod is electrically tested before use.  Yes / No.
10.  Stringing Machine / Tension pullor Machine are properly earthed.  Yes / No.
11.  Check the brake arrangement of the TSE Machines is working.  Yes / No.
12.  Ensure that the pulleys used before conductor stringing has been
checked for adequate strength / proper size (diameter), also in case  Yes / No.
of open type pulleys proper locking arrangements like providing of
Safety Pin is made Ensure for copy of test certificate for all the



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
lifting machines and tackles.
13.  Ensure the ropes used before conductor stringing has been checked
for adequate strength / physical condition (Free from break of Yes / No.
strands and knots etc.
14.  Check that the lifting tools and tackles i.e. Winch Machine, Chain
Pulley Block, Trifor, D - Shackle etc. are in healthy condition and  Yes / No.
has been tested periodically. (Attach copy of test certificate).
15.  Check for the brake arrangement of the Drum reel of conductor
during laying / paying out of conductor.                   Yes / No.
16.  Check that proper communication facility is available at site during
of stringing of conductor ( If required )                  Yes / No.
17.  Whether the tower has been permanently earthed.            Yes / No.
18.  Check that Sag Board is provided at two locations.         Yes / No.
19. Check that the Sag Board arrangement is made by the experienced /
trained persons.                                           Yes / No.
20.  Check approved Sag tension chart is available and followed at site.  Yes / No.
21.  While clamping of conductor / EW to be done, check for earthing.  Yes / No.
22.  Ensure sending signal to puller to stop when last layer of conductor
/ EW being pulled.                                         Yes / No.
23.  Check tension applied on the dynamo meter dial and check values
with approved data.                                        Yes / No.
24.  Before stringing starts check that the villagers do not come
underneath the job of the concerned section.               Yes / No.
25.  Only nylon or polypropylene ropes should be used during conductor
stringing in vicinity of live overhead lines.              Yes / No.
26.  Ensure that PTW has been taken from the concered authoity.  Yes / No.
27.  Ensure that Winch, Pulleys etc. are properly earthed.      Yes / No.
28.  For LT lines, whether special persons are posted at each point of
isolation till return of permit (PTW).                     Yes / No.
29.  Whether the network of LT lines has been thoroughly checked and
precautions taken Against inadvertent charging.            Yes / No.
30.  Check that proper arrangement is made / available for development
and use of a Portable Earthing and Short - Circuiting Devices which  Yes / No.
can be engaged and disengaged to and from the LT lines, keeping
away from the LT lines, until all operations on the same are
completed and all men and materials are removed from LT lines.
31.  Check the provision and proper positioning for the guying and back
staying (Where necessary).                                 Yes / No.
32.  Check demarcation of feeder is done for D/c Line.          Yes / No.
33.  Ensure that all the insulator strings are thoroughly checked for
availability and proper fixing of cotter / split pins before hoisting the  Yes / No.
same.



General Points common for all activities during Excavation, Casting of Foundation
A. ERECTION OF TOWER AND STRINGING OF CONDUCTOR:
SN                      Description of Activity                  Feed back   Remarks
1.   Check whether the contractor had procured required quantity of
PPEs considering maximum numbers of erection gangs deployed at Yes / No.
one time.
2.   Supervisors/ Workmen have been provided with required healthy
PPEs, like Safety helmet / Safety Belts / Safety Shoes / Gum Boot Yes / No.
etc. as applicable.
3.   Availability of First Aid Box with required medicines at site.  Yes / No.
4.   Instruction register is available at site.                  Yes / No.
5.   Ensure that Supervisor / Gang Leader always issues instruction to
the Workmen before start of work.                           Yes / No.
6.   Ensure that supervisory staff from Power Grid is available at site
during construction.                                        Yes / No.
7.   All driver and plant operators are holding valid driving license.  Yes / No.
8.   Check the vehicle for rescue is available at site.          Yes / No.
9.   Ensure engaged labour are aware of the job.                 Yes / No.
10.  Check that the unskilled labourers are not engaged in skilled job.  Yes / No.
11.  Ensure that supervisor / workmen engaged in the field are aware of
First Aid Techniques ( Such as in case of Electric Shock, Fall from  Yes / No.
the height, Snake bite and the person rescued from buried under the
debris etc.
12.  Check for nearby Hospital / Doctor in case of emergencies arises.  Yes / No.
13.  While transporting heavy consignment of conductor / EW drums
from central store to site by the use of Cranes, Truck, and Tractor. Yes / No.
The safety aspect for construction and failure of brake system of
moving machinery is to be checked.
14.  At least one dry powder type of portable fire extinguisher shall be
provided especially where explosive or blasting agents are used for Yes / No.
excavation.
15. Check the competence (Qualification / Experience) of supervisor /
gang leader of contractor.                                  Yes / No.
REMARKS IF ANY:
Signature                   Signature                     Signature
Name:
Designation:                Name:                         Name:
Representative of          Designation:                   Designation:
Contractor                  Power Grid Rep. from Site.    Power Grid Rep. from RHQ.



Safety Related Check List during Construction of Sub - Station
Region: ....... Name of DHQ / GHQ: ............................ Date of Safety Audit:.........
Name  of Sub  Stn. / Switching  Stn.: ...............................................................................................
Name of Contractor: ..................................................................................................................
Contractor License / Registration No.:      ...................... Validity............
Name of Sub Contractor   : .........................................................................................................
A. SUB STATION CIVIL WORKS:
SN                        Description of Activity                      Feed back     Remarks
1): SAFETY DURING EXCAVATION:
1.   Check Sub station area has been protected by constructing boundary
wall all around the sub station to avoid entry of passerby / Yes i No.
unauthorized person or animal in the sub station.
2.    De watering arrangement is available ( If necessary)             Yes / No.
3.    Check proper / adequate arrangement is made for extension of
electric supply. (Proper size of cable, Use of fuse, No loose    Yes / No.
connection and no naked wire connection to Pumps / Illumination /
Electric compressors etc. if applicable).
4.    Check arrangement of illumination at construction site is available.  Yes / No.
5.    Check dumping of Excavated soil (Minimum 1.5 Mts. Or half the
depth of the pit which ever is more from the edge of the pit.)   Yes / No.
6.    Check Shoring & Shuttering to protect the loose rock / soil against Yes / No.
fall. (if required).
7.    Check lone worker is not be allowed to work in the excavated area.  Yes / No.
8.    Ensure Laying of temporary cables used for operation of Machines  Yes / No.
used during construction should not cause any danger for
electrocution of persons / animals.
9.    Ensure that before undertaking excavation, the soil has been tested
and in case of availability of any explosive / dangerous gas, Yes / No.
necessary arrangement must be made to remove / dilute such gases.
10.   The positions of underground installations such as sewers, water
pipes and electrical cables has been verified and in case of their  Yes / No.
existence, they must be isolated before further excavation works to
ensure Human Safety.
11.   Check that the scaffolds are not overloaded in any case. Scaffolds  Yes / No.
are to be erected and supported properly.
12.   Stability of the soil of the excavated pit for safe working is to be
checked and certified by a competent person daily before start of  Yes / No.
work. A register at site is maintained where competent person can
certify accordingly. No manhole should remain uncovered during
night & off days.



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
13.  Check the provision of sufficient strong ladder of suitable length is  Yes /No.
available near the working place during excavation.
14.  Check if any permission is required from local statutory body before
excavation.                                                Yes /No.
15.  Check for No undercutting / toe cutting in soil.           Yes / No.
16.  Check after excavation the work should be speedily completed  Yes /No.
Iwithout delay and back filling done at the earliest.
17.  Check for any possibility of seepage of water from nearby pond /  Yes / No
river has been estimated and taken care of.
18.  Check to avoid slide / collaps of side walls of excavated pit, the  Yes /No.
excavation is to be done in trapezoidal cross - section.
II): SAFETY PRECAUTION DURING STORAGE, HANDLING AND USE OF BLASTING MATERIAL:
1    Check that the adequate arrangement is made for the storage of
blasting material at safe place. (Temporary Magazine is to be  Yes / No.
installed observing all norms) as per Indian Explosive Act.
2.   Check that the blasting materials is handled by licensed blaster with  Yes / No.
due care at site. (If applicable)
3.   Check smoking is prohibited in the vehicle carrying explosives.  Yes / No.
4.   Check that the Blaster is holding proper license issued by the Yes / No.
appropriate authority. As per Indian Explosive Act.
5.   Check that the length of the fuse wire used during blasting operation  Yes / No.
is adequate.
6.   Check while transportation, no unauthorized person is allowed in  Yes / No.
vehicle carrying explosives.
7.   Check that the loading and unloading of explosives is being done  Yes / No.
carefully.
8.   Check explosives and detonators or blasting caps is not being  Yes / No.
transported in the same vehicle.
9.   Check while transportation the detonators and explosives are not Yes / No.
carried loose or mixed with other materials.
10   Check surplus explosives shall not be stacked near working area Yes / No.
during loading / unloading.
11.  Check explosives shall not be held in hands when lightening the  Yes / No.
fuse.
12.  Check that blasting in the open has been carried out during the fixed  Yes / No.
hours every day or on fixed days in the week so that the public at
large should know about this.
13.  Check that arrangement has been made to display sufficient Yes / No.
warnings / sign board to enable the people to get out of the blasting
area to get off the danger zone
14.  Check that the danger zone has been suitably cordoned off.  Yes / No.
15.  Check during blasting operations begin / after the firing of
explosives shall follow the loud siren.                    Yes / No.
16.  Check that during blasting operation, Labour / Workmen / Passerby
are at safe places and arrangement is made to inform public by  Yes / No.



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
caution markings ( Red Flag ) / Public Notices etc.
---C
17.  Check that PPEs i.e. Safety helmets, Safety Shoes, is used by blaster
and their gang members during blasting and also the persons Yes / No.
supervising the blasting operations.
18.  For covered blasting ensure placement of cover plates of proper
thickness and sufficient numbers of sand filled bags.      Yes / No.
19.  Ensure that permission for blasting has been obtained from the
appropriate authority.                                     Yes /No.
1II) SAFETY DURING CASTING OF FOUNDATION / CONCRETING:
1.   Check construction materials are stacked at safe place and also does
not cause any danger. (Away from pit) i.e. 1.5 Mtrs. or half the  Yes / No.
depth of the pit which ever is more.)
2.   Check proper arrangement of illumination at Construction Site of
Sub station is available.                                  Yes / No.
3.   Check that the Concreting Mixer/ Vibrator machines etc are placed
at a safe place (Not very near to any pit at least 1.5 Mtr. from the  Yes / No.
edge of the pit) to avoid transfer of vibrations and should be
operated by skilled persons.
4.   Check proper / adequate arrangement is made for extension of
electric supply. (Proper size of cable, Use of fuse, No loose  Yes / No.
connection for De watering Pumps / Illumination / Electric
compressors etc. if applicable).
5.   Check for laying of temporary cables used during construction
activities should not cause any danger for electrocution to persons / Yes / No.
animals.
6.   All bracing, struts and shuttering in excavations shall be adequately
secured so as to prevent their accidental displacement.    Yes / No.
7.   Ensure Shuttering and timbering has been made as detailed in I:S:
3764 for protecting the loose rock / soil against fall.    Yes / No.
8.   Check for proper placing of Hydraulic jacks with stability and
constant watch of these instruments (which are continuously loaded) Yes / No.
to avoid any danger of displacement causing sever accident.
B. SAFETY DURING STRUCTURE, EQUIPMENT ERECTION & CABLE LAYING ETC.:
SN                   Description of Activity               Feedback      Remarks
1.   Check Back filling done prior to erection activity.   Yes / No.
2.   Check the derrick used before structure erection has been       Test certificate is
checked for adequate strength / size and no joints are Yes / No.  required  apart
permitted.                                                      from       visual
inspection.
3.   Check that the pulleys used before structure erection /         Test certificate is
Equipment Erection has been checked for adequate strength / Yes / No.  required  apart
proper size (diameter), also in case of open type pulleys       from       visual
proper locking arrangements like providing of Safety Pin is     inspection.



SN                   Description of Activity               Feedback       Remarks
made Safe working load should be punched.
4.   Check the ropes used before structure erection / Equipment       Test certificate is
Erection has been checked for adequate strength / physical Yes / No.  required  apart
condition (free from break of strands and knots etc.             from      visual
inspection.
5.   Check that the lifting tools and tackles are in healthy          Test certificate is
condition and has been tested periodically.           Yes / No.  required   apart
from       visual
inspection.
6.   Check permission has been obtained from Aviation Authority
for erection of Lightning Mast which comes in the vicinity of Yes / No.
flying zone. (Where necessary )
7.   Check that all Nuts and Bolts are fitted in the structure before
undertaking the job of other section of the structure and are Yes / No.
tightened.
8.   Check area has been cordoned off to prevent injuries to
unauthorized  persons  from  hitting  against structural Yes / No.
component or falling in the excavated pits.
9.   Check that danger plates are available on all the equipment &
structures in the switchyard.                         Yes / No.
10.  Check demarcation of feeder is done for Double Circuit Line.  Yes / No.
11.  Check only erection team members are allowed to stand near
the structure / Equipment while erection is in process and  Yes / No.
should wear the safety helmet / Safety Shoes.
12.  Check proper guying arrangement has been made while
lifting structure / Equipment, if necessary.          Yes / No.
13.  Check that proper arrangement is made while lifting the
structure members and fixing them at height i.e. Proper size  Yes / No.
and strength of the hook used for lifting the structure
members.
14.  Check sufficient numbers of guys are made while lifting the
assembled structure / heavy loads and also avoiding use of Yes / No.
single sheeve pulleys while lifting the assembled structure /
heavy load.
15.  Check   arrangement has   been  made' for   equipment
identification.                                       Yes / No.
16.  Check that required painting made on tower falling in the
vicinity of aviation zones. (Where necessary.)        Yes / No.
17   Check no live wires nearby. Take shut down if necessary.  Yes / No.
18.  Check the structure has been permanently earthed.     Yes / No.
19.  Check crane are preferably be used for erection of pipe
structure in the sub station building works ( if required.)  Yes / No.
20.  Check all safety procedures for erection work like use of
safety helmets, Safety belts, use of guy wires, lowering / Yes / No.
lifting of tools by rope etc. are strictly adhered to during
structure erection works is in progress in the switchyard.
21.  Check that correct size of spanner (Box or ring type) as well



SN                   Description of Activity               Feedback      Remarks
as DE spanners is being used.                         Yes / No.
22.  Check working area of the structure has been demarcated
during erection.                                      Yes / No.
23.  Check heavy structures are lifted with crane with proper Yes / No.
safety.
24.  Only polypropylene ropes are to be used to tie the aluminium
tube / Bus bar since this is soft material and will not damage  Yes / No.
aluminium tube / Bus bar during erection.
25.  Ensure that R clips in insulator caps are fixed properly to
avoid disconnection of insulator discs.               Yes / No.
26.  Ensure that all the necessary security pins (split pins) are
fixed.                                                Yes / No.
27.  Check all nuts of jumper fittings are properly tightened and
live  metal clearance  have  been  maintained  as per Yes / No.
POWERGRID specification.
28.  In case of tension fitting dead end joint dimensions before &
after the compression are checked and recorded.       Yes / No.
29.  No damaged component of any hardware fitting should be
used on works.                                        Yes / No.
30.  Length of jumpers has been measured properly to give it a
parabolic shape. No sharp bend should exist.          Yes / No.
31.  Check surge counter erection facilitates proper reading and
that earthing is done with minimum bends.             Yes / No.
32.  Check Surge monitor has been earthed by connecting it to
main earth mat with (G I Flat 75 x 12 mm) and earth pit Yes/No.
separately as per drawing.
33.  Check the alignment of earth switch with isolator, earth
switch of isolator is put into operation and the contacts are  Yes / No.
cleaned. After completion of pre commissioning checks and
formats are dully filled and signed.
34.  Ensure that the rubber beedings are kept in good condition.  Yes / No.
35.  Check CT has been placed on the support structure very
carefully and all nuts have been tightened. Earthing is done as Yes / No.
per drawing.
36.  Ensure the lattice structure of CT has been earthed at two
points.                                               Yes / No.
37.  Check the marshalling box in the switchyard has proper
illumination arrangement.                             Yes / No.
38.  Check the capacitor unit is short circuited & earthed, until
erection and commissioning works are being done on CVT. Yes / No.
(The capacitor get charged by the electrical fields in the
vicinity and they keep these charges for a long time, which
can be dangerous to human life. Hence the shorting of
capacitor unit is necessary). It should be removed before tests
/ use.
39.  Check Fuses in the marshaling box are OK.             Yes / No.



SN                   Description of Activity              Feedback       Remarks
40.  Check proper earthing of CVT tank has been done.      Yes / No.
41.  Check all housing accessories, mounting stools including
bolts / Nuts for fixing Line Trap and insulators are of non  Yes / No.
magnetic material.
42.  Check H.F. point of CVTs on which the coupling device is
not mounted has been earthed.                         Yes / No.
43.  Check the remaining CVTs have been earthed thro' coupling
device.                                               Yes / No.
44.  Cable drums after visual inspection should be stored
preferably in the covered area. Cable ends should be clamped. Yes / No.
45.  Ensure each cable and conduit run should be tagged with
cable identity numbering as per the approved that appear in  Yes / No.
the cable and conduit schedule.
46.  The tag should be of aluminium plate with ID number
punched on it and securely attached to the cable conduit by  Yes / No.
not less than two turns. Cable tags should of rectangular
shape for power cables and of circular shape for control
cables.
47.  Check underground cable markers should project 150 mm
above ground and spaced at an interval of 30 Mts. They shall Yes / No.
be located on both sides of road and drain crossing and also at
every change in direction.
48.  Check cable tags should be provided inside the switchgear,
motor control centres, control and relay panels etc. wherever Yes / No.
required for cable identification, where a number of cables
enter together through a gland plate.
49.  The cable (power and control) between LT stations, Control
room, DG set building and fire fighting pump house should  Yes / No.
be laid in the buried cable trenches. In addition to the above,
for lighting purpose also, buried cable trench can be used in
outdoor area.(as per Technical specification of specific
contract )
50.  Cable route and joint markers and RCC warning covers
should be provided wherever required. The voltage grade of Yes / No.
cables should be engraved on the marker.
51.  Tray Identification Number on each run of trays at an interval
of 10 Mtrs should be painted.                         Yes / No.
52.  In case the outer sheath of a cable is damaged during handling
/ installation, the same should be repaired to the satisfaction Yes / No.
of the site. In case any other part of a cable is damaged, the
same should be replaced by a healthy cable. Power cables
should be at the top most layers. The armor of control cable is
to be earthed.
53.  All cable termination should be appropriately tightened to
ensure secure and reliable connections. All the exposed parts Yes / No.
of cable lugs should be covered with tape, sleeve or paint.
54.  Power and control cables are laid on separate cable trays  Yes / No.



SN                  Description of Activity               Feedback      Remarks
55.  Co-axial cable is laid separately from power cable.  Yes / No.
56.  All cable trays, racks and metallic ducts have been grounded
by connecting each to earth / mat. ( As per Scheme )  Yes / No.
57.  Check sections of cable trays have been bridged by copper
jumpers/ G I to retain continuity of earthing. (As per Scheme)  Yes / No.
58.  Check earthing of panel is done by the erection contractor for
connecting it with switchyard earth mat. ( As per Scheme)  Yes / No.
59.  Auxiliary bus wiring for AC and DC supplies, Voltage
Transformer circuits, annunciation circuits and other common  Yes / No.
services is provided near the top of the panels running
through out the entire length of the panels.
60. All internal wiring to be connected to external equipment is
terminated on terminal blocks, preferably vertically mounted  Yes / No.
on the side of each panel.
61.  Check whether Mimic Diagram is available preferably made
of anodized aluminium or plastic of approved fast colour Yes / No.
material and screwed on to the panel that can be easily
cleaned.
62.  Check the panels all equipment mounted on front and rear
side as well as equipment mounted inside are provided with  Yes / No.
individual name plates with equipment designated engraved.
63.  Check on top of each panel on front as well as rear side, large
and bold name plates are provided for circuit / feeder Yes / No.
designation.
64.  Check all front mounted equipments are provided at the rear
with individual name plates engraved with tag numbers Yes / No.
corresponding to panel internal wiring to facilitate easy
tracing of the wiring.
65.  Check the name plates mounted directly by the side of the
respective equipments should not be hidden by equipment Yes / No.
wiring.
66.  Check availability of 240V single phase 50 HZ, AC socket
with switch suitable to accept 5 Amps and !5 Amps pin round  Yes / No.
standard plug, is provided in the interior of each cubicle with
ON-OFF switch for connection of hand lamps.
67.  Check that panels are provided with a fluorescent lighting
fixture rated with 240 Volts single phase, 50 Hz supply for Yes /No.
the interior illumination of the panel during maintenance. The
fittings are complete with switch fuse unit and switching of
the lighting is controlled by the respective panel door switch.
Adequate lighting with fuse unit is also provided for the
corridor in control panels.
68.  Check   control panels  are  provided  with  necessary
arrangements for receiving, distributing, isolating and fusing Yes / No.
of DC and AC supplies for various control, signalling,
lighting and space heater circuits. The incoming and sub
circuits are separately with switch fuse units.



SN                   Description of Activity              Feedback       Remarks
69.  Check panels are provided with a space heater rated for 240
V, single phase, 50 Hz, AC supply for the internal heating of Yes / No.
the panel to prevent condensation of moisture.
70.  Check all panels are equipped with an earth bus securely
fixed                                                 Yes / No.
71.  Check when several panels are mounted adjoining each other,
the earth bus is made continuous with necessary connectors Yes / No.
and clamps for this purpose.
72.  Check provision is made for extending the earth bus bars to
adjoining panels on either side.                      Yes / No.
73.  Check provision is made on each bus bar of the end panels for
connecting earthing grid.                             Yes / No.
74.  Check all metallic cases of relays, instruments and panel
mounted equipment including gland plates are connected to  Yes / No.
the earth bus by copper wires of specified size.
75.  Check the colour code of the earthing wire is green.  Yes / No.
76.  Check that earthing made with equipment is with Nuts and
Bolts i.e. For such connection lugs should be pressed and  Yes / No.
tightened to the terminals through Nuts and Bolts.
77.  Check that no equipment is mounted on the panel doors.  Yes / No.
78.  Check each switch should bear clear inscription identifying its
function.                                             Yes / No.
79.  Check those who have sufficient knowledge of steel structural
job have been employed in steel structural works only.  Yes / No.
80.  Check necessary instruction has been communicated by
supervisor before start of the day's works to workmen under Yes / No.
his control.
81.  Storing of equipments is to be made properly to avoid any
accident during handling.                             Yes / No.
82.  Check all Nuts and bolts are properly raised or lowered
preferably using closed loop pulleys and gully bags / hand  Yes / No.
bags tied at the end for carrying nuts and bolts.
83.  Check that Fire resistant sheets are used before entrance of
control cable in control room.                        Yes / No.
84.  Check air compressor tubing properly tightened.       Yes / No.
85.  Check all carrying connectors / clamps properly tightened.  Yes / No.
0
C. CONDUCTOR LAYOUT DURING CONSTRUCTION STAGE:
SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
1.   Check all members are fixed in structure and ensure proper size of
Nuts and Bolts are rigidly tightened and punching / tacking / tack  Yes / No.
welding is done in towers / structures before undertaking conductor
laying job.
2.   Ensure proper scaffolding arrangements made during laying of



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
conductor (While Power Line crossing etc).                 Yes / No.
3.   Ensure that all members are fitted in structure before undertaking
conductor laying work.                                     Yes / No.
4.   Ensure that the discharge rod is electrically tested before use.  Yes / No.
5.   Ensure whether the structure is properly earthed.          Yes / No.
6.   Only nylon or polypropylene ropes should be used during conductor
laying in vicinity of live overhead lines.                 Yes / No.
7.   Ensure that PTW has been taken from the concerned authority when
extension of existing sub station is under execution.      Yes / No.
8.   Ensure that Winch, Pulleys etc. are properly earthed.      Yes / No.
9.   For LT lines, check whether special persons are posted at each point
of isolation till return of permit (PTW) if positioning of person is Yes / No.
not possible then it is to be seen that all the point of isolation has
been kept in the locked position till the work is in progress.
10.  Whether the network of LT lines has been thoroughly checked and
precautions taken against inadvertent charging.            Yes / No.
11. Check that proper arrangement is made / available for grounding LT
lines coming across during conductor laying. (This can be done by  Yes / No.
way of portable earthing and short circuiting devices which cab be
engaged to and disengaged from LT lines, keeping away from the
LT lines until all operations on the same are completed and all man
and materials are removed from the LT lines).
12.  Check the provision and proper positioning for the guying and back
staying (Where necessary).                                 Yes / No.
13.  Check working of hydraulic crimping machine.               Yes / No.
14.  Check before and after crimping, dimensional changes in clamps
and are in accordance with the drawings and specifications.  Yes / No.
D SWITCHYARD EARTHING DURING CONSTRUCTION STAGE:
SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
1.   Check that while earthing conductor crossing the road is laid 300
mm below the road or at greater depth depending upon the site  Yes / No.
conditions.
2.   Check that while laying the Earthing conductor in outside area is
buried at least 600 mm below the furnished ground level.   Yes / No.
3.   Check that the earthing pads have been provided for the apparatus /
equipments at accessible position.                         Yes / No.
4.   Check all steel columns, metallic stairs are connected to nearby
earthing grid conductor by two earthing leads.             Yes / No.
5.   Check of earthing of lightening fixtures, receptacles switches,
junction boxes lighting conduits has been done by a separate  Yes / No.
earthing conductor.
6.   Check that the railway tracks within switchyard area has been



SN                     Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
clearance maintained etc. Permission to be obtained from concerned
authority if required. "Impact recorder on the equipment like
Reactor / Transformer must be installed during transportation"
18.  Check that the adequate and safe means of access and aggress has
been provided for all work places as far as reasonably practicable  Yes / No.
and is being used by the workers.
19.  Check proper illumination is provided at the work places and their
approaches including passage ways.                         Yes / No.
20.  Check that the lamps have been protected by suitable guards where
necessary to prevent danger, in case the lamp breaks.      Yes / No.
21.  Check loose materials which are not required for use shall not be
placed or left so as dangerously to obstruct work places or passage  Yes / No.
ways.
22.  Check all projected nails has been removed or bent over to prevent
injury.                                                    Yes / No.
23.  Check scrap, waste and rubbish has not been allowed to
accommodate on the site or the scrap materials has been stored at Yes / No.
the isolated place.
24.  Check that the worker while working at height scaffold materials,
waste materials and tools are not being thrown by them to cause  Yes / No.
injury to any person.
25.  Check whether contractor has procured required quantity of PPE
considering maximum number of erection gangs deployed at one  Yes / No.
time. Check the quantity of PPEs.
26.  Check that the PPEs required by the workmen are being utilized by
them always.                                               Yes / No.
27.  Check the worker is under constant surveillance by the other person
while working at height.                                   Yes / No.
28.  Check construction site has been barricaded for unauthorized
persons / animals.                                         Yes / No.
29.  Check that lifting appliances and machines and vehicles used on the
construction site is of sound material and good quality and is free  Yes / No.
from patent defects and is strong enough to with safely the load and
stresses to which they will be subjected.
30.  Check structures and equipment is being used only for the purpose
for which they were intended.                              Yes / No.
31.  Check equipment has been operated by the competent person.  Yes / No.
32.  Check portable ladders shall not exceed 9 Mts. in length, other wise  Yes / No.
may cause danger while climbing of person and back legs shall be
equally braced.
33.  Check unskilled labour are not utilized for skilled jobs and only
experience persons are deployed for erection.              Yes / No.
34.  Check a well planed and documented procedure for the entire
Construction works of Sub station shall be prepared by contractor Yes / No.
and get approved from Power Grid for distribution to Contractors'
field staff and Power Grid for follow up.
35.  Check no metallic measuring tapes are being used during expansion



SN                      Description of Activity                  Feed back    Remarks
of charged bays.                                            Yes / No.
36.  Check metal ladders are not being used in the vicinity of exposed
live electrical equipment.                                  Yes / No.
37.  Check one bore well is available for water supply in case Municipal
Construction supply is not available                        Yes / No.
38.  Check charged area of a yard should be properly fenced off.  Yes / No.
39.  Check ladders / lengthy articles / lengthy equipments etc. should
always be carried in horizontal position.                   Yes / No.
40.  Check insurance by contractor for the labour to provide adequate  Yes / No.
coverage for any accident etc.
REMARKS IF ANY:
Signature                        Signature                        Signature
Name:                            Name:                            Name:
Designation:                     Designation:                     Designation:
Power Grid Rep.                  Rep. from Contractor             Rep. from



*BUDGET ESTIMATE FOR EMP
Mitigation measures
Total line length:- 571.09 Kms.
A.    Compensation
1.   Compensation towards Forest area  including Net present value  - Rs. 14.28 lakhs
2.    Compensation towards Crops                              - Rs.200.935 lakhs
3.    Compensation for PTCC (538.52 Kmx Rs. 50,000/-)          - Rs. 252.97 lakhs
4    .Cost towards    implementation   of   EMP (Contractor's Scope)
ii) Existing Sub-stations (0x0)                           = Nil
a) Sub Total          = Rs.1881.91 lakhs
B.   Implementation Monitoring & Audit
i)    Man-power involved for EMP implementation
& Monitoring in entire route of Transmission lines
(Rs.10, 000/-x 571 Km)           =Rs. 57.1 lakhs
ii)  Independent Audit (LS) 1                            = Rs. 5.0 lakhs
b) Sub Total              =Rs. 62.1 lakhs
Total a+b                          Rs. 1944.01 lakhs
C.   Contingent cost 3% (a+b)                              = Rs.   58.32 lakhs
Total Cost (A+B-C)              =  Rs. 2002.36 lakhs
Note: '*' Budget estimate is only indicative
1 Only for external Agency



*BUDGET ESTIMATE FOR EMP
Mitigation measures
Total line length:- 571.09 Kms.
A.    Compensation
1.   Compensation towards Forest area  including Net present value  - Rs. 14.28 lakhs
2.    Compensation towards Crops                              - Rs.200.935 lakhs
3.    Compensation for PTCC (538.52 Kmx Rs. 50,000/-)          - Rs. 252.97 lakhs
4    .Cost towards    implementation   of   EMP (Contractor's Scope)
ii) Existing Sub-stations (OxO)                           = Nil
a) Sub Total          = Rs.1881.91 lakhs
B.   Implementation Monitoring & Audit
i)    Man-power involved for EMP implementation
& Monitoring in entire route of Transmission lines
(Rs.10, 000/-x 571 Km)           =Rs. 57.1 lakhs
ii)  Independent Audit (LS) 1                            = Rs. 5.0 lakhs
b) Sub Total              =Rs. 62.1 lakhs
Total a+b                          Rs. 1944.01 lakhs
C.   Contingent cost 3% (a+b)                              = Rs.   58.32 lakhs
Total Cost (A+B+C)              =   Rs. 2002.36 lakhs
Note: '*' Budget estimate is only indicative
1 Only for external Agency



ANNEXURE-II
NOTICE AND
PUBLIC CONSULTATION



Report on Public Consultation Programme at villages along the
proposed 400KV Double Circuit Jamshedpur-Baripada
Transmission line.
During survey and tower spotting of the proposed 400 KV D/C
Jamshedpur-Baripada transmissions line formal and informal
public meeting were organized in various villages en route of
the line by POWERGRID officials. During the meeting people
were informed about details of proposed line. They were
informed about the route of the line, length of the line, starting
and termination point of the line etc. People were very curious
about the line and asked many questions like health hazard
from the line, effect of the line on environment, compensation
procedure for damage of their tree & crop during construction
etc. People were informed in detail about the impact of line on
health and environment, Compensation procedure for tree and
crop compensation, Compensatory afforestation plan of
POWERGRID etc in a lucid manner. Direct and indirect benefit
of the line were also explained. Their queries were replied to
their satisfaction. They were happy about the project and most
of them assured to extend their full support in construction of
the line. Pamphlets in English and Hindi were distributed
giving detailed information about Project.



Details of public meeting held, are as follows
SI.  Name of      Date    of No. of     Name of village  Remarks
No. transmission  meeting    villagers
line                    attended
01. Jamshedpur-     6.03.06      8      Srirampur        Photographs of
Brpd400                                           public
02. K     aV D/C 1ne  6.03.06   07      Barahariharpur   consultations at
KVD/ lie   ________various villages,
03.                 9.03.06     08      Chotahariharpur  list of
participant and
04.                 14.03.06    09     Dugdha            their signatures
05.                 17.03.06    07      Barkatand        and copies of
05.                                       the pamphlets
06.                22.03.06     08      Barjuri          as distributed
._                are enclosed.
07.                 25.3.06     09     Tamakpal
08.                28.03.06     12      Udaipur
X--



MAP-1
FOREST COVER MAP OF WEST BENGAL



MAP-1 FOREST COVER IN WEST BENGAL
NEPAL    SIKKIM
BHUTAN
,  -ASSAM
%-''
JHARKHAND
Rrhum-,~ .
BANGLADESH
Pv   .     . A
iuruA                    Mdin.pur  ,h
ORISSA                               Ncl For'V
- .-.............             BAY OF BENGAL   -             ,,1fl',
Forest Cover
Moderately Dense
Very Dense  Forest       t
Forest    4.2%   Ope Fores
Non-Forest
86.1%



MAP-2
FOREST COVER MAP OF JHARKHAND



MAP- 2 FOREST COVER IN JHARKHAND
-)RADESH   Dj Dgrv
C,H* iATTIS                            WvEST BENGAL
Proje tAArea
Forest Cover
Very Dense
Forest   Moderately Dense
3.2%        Forest
11.5%
Open Forest
Non-Forest                   13.8%
71 5%



MAP-3
FOREST COVER MAP OF ORISSA



MAP-3 FOREST COVER IN ORISSA
JHARKHAND
Project area  <                             WEST BENGAL
CHHATTISGARH
*   L.   . ;  .   .
Po+,,  A n   , *.,,lamal  (-    -.N
. >" -BAY OF BENGAL
ANDHRA PRADESH
VVZb'i!  LXS
Forest Cover
Very Dense
Forest    Moderately Dense
0.2%         Forest
17.9%
Open Forest
Non-Forest                       13.0%
68.9%



MAP-4
&
MAP-5
AL TERNA TI VE ROUTE ALIGNMENTS
OF
DURGAPUR-JAMSHEDPUR 400 KV D/C
TRANSMISSION LINE
&
JAMSHEDPUR-BARIPADA 400 KV D/C
TRANSMISSION LINE



MAP-5
AL TERNA TI VE ROUTE ALIGNMENTS
OF
JAMSHEDPUR-BARIPADA 400 KV DIC
TRANSMISSION LINE



MAP-6
A L TERNA TI VE ROUTE A L IGNMEN TS
OF
BARIPADA-MENDHASHAL 400 KV D/C
TRANSMISSION LINE



FIG URE-I
PLAN OF TRANSMISSION LINE FOOTINGS



TYPICAL PLAN OF TRANSMISSION -ANE TOWER FOCTINC.
N
aL
TI
M
N
N,  S
-        -' *--.
ACTUAL P0SIT0 XON GROUC  l
INDICATIVE MEASURES
a.  3O0.- 450 :irn



