                                            Document o f

                                        The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 31884-IN




                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                        PROPOSEDLOAN

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$400MILLION

                                             TO THE

                     POWERGlUD CORPORATIONOF INDIA LIMITED

                 (WITH THE GUARANTEEOF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA)

                                               FORA

                      POWERSYSTEMDEVELOPMENTPROJECT - I11


                                        December 15,2005




Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 1,2005)


                                         Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
                                               Rs.43.0 = US$1


                                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                               April 1    - March31

                                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABT     Availability BasedTariff                        IMS           IntegratedManagement System
ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank                           IPMCS         IntegratedProjectManagement and Control System
APL     Adaptable ProgramLending                        IPPS          IndependentPowerProducers
ARCS    Audit ReportsCompliance System                  LD&C          Load Dispatchand Communication
BOOT    Built- Own - Operate - Transfer                 M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
CAG     Comptroller and Auditor General                 MIS           Management Information System
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     MoF           Ministry of Finance
CEA     CentralElectricity Authority                    MOP           Ministry of Power
CERC    CentralElectricity RegulatoryCommission         MoU           Memorandumof Understanding
CPM     Critical Mean Path                              NACAS         National Advisory Committee on Accounting
                                                                      Standards
CTU     CentralTransmissionUtility                      NGO           Non-GovernmentalOrganisation
DFC     DevelopmentFinance Institution                  NHPC          National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
DISCOMs Distribution Companies                          NTPC          National Thermal PowerCorporation
DPR     DetailedProject Report                          PAPS          ProjectAffected Persons
EA      Electricity Act                                 PCN           Project Concept Note
EAMP    EnvironmentalAssessment& Management Plan        PERT          PerformanceEvaluation ReviewTechnique
EAR     EnvironmentalAssessmentReport                   PFC           PowerFinanceCorporation
ERR     EconomicRate of Return                          PIP           ProjectImplementationPlan
                                                        POWERGRID     Power Grid Corporationof India
EMP     Environment Management Plan                     PPAs          PowerPurchase Agreements
ESCOs   Energy Service Companies                        PPP           Public PrivatePartnership
ESMC    Environmentaland SocialManagement Cell          PRM           ProjectReview Meeting
ESMD    Environment and SocialManagementDepartment      PSU           Public Sector Undertaking
ESPP    Environment and SocialPolicy and Procedures     PTC           PTC IndiaLimited
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return               RAP           ResettlementAction Plan
F M     Financial Management                            RLDC          Regional LoadDispatchCenter
FMR     Financial Management Report                     ROE           Returnon Equity
FMS     Financial Management System                     RoW           Right o fWay
GIS     GeographicalInformation System                  SBD           StandardBidding Documents
Go1     Governmentof India                              SEB           State Electricity Board
GPS     GeographicalPositioning System                  SEBI          Securitiesand Exchange Board of India
GSS     Grid Substations                                SIL           Specific InvestmentLoan
HVDC    High Voltage Direct Current                     SLDC          State Loan Dispatch Center
IAD     Internal Audit Department                       TA            TechnicalAssistance
ICB     InternationalCompetitiveBidding                 UI            UnscheduledInterchanges
IEAR    Initial EnvironmentalAssessment Report          WB            World Bank


                                         Vice President:    Praful Pate1
                          Country Managermirector:          Michael F. Carter
                                        Sector Manager:     Penelope J. Brook
                                    Task Team Leader:        SunilK.Khosla

                                                             INDIA
                    POWER SYSTEMDEVELOPMENT PROJECT .I11

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................  1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................               1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                    2
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                3

B
.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .................................................................................................   3
 1.  Lending instrument.............................................................................................................             3
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                              3
 3.  Project components.............................................................................................................             4
 4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                              5
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                            5

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                 ..........................................................................................................     6
  1. Partnership arrangements ....................................................................................................                6
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................                             6
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results ..................................................................                            7
 4.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.................................................................                           8
 5.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants.................................................................................                         9

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                         .................................................................................................     10
  1. Economic and financial analysis .......................................................................................                     10
 2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................        11
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................       12
 4.  Social................................................................................................................................. 13
  5. Environment......................................................................................................................           14
 6.  Safeguard policies ........................................        ..
                                                                         .................................................................... 15
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                       15

FOROFFIcI[AEUSEONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                                               L i s t of Annexes

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                             .........................................................       16

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                   .................21
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................        23

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................         25

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................         32

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................        33

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                          .....................................    35

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................         41

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 .............................................................................        52

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................         58

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................       67

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File               .................................................................................        68

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................        69

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................         73

Annex 15: Implementation of OpenAccess Regime and Development of Power Trading                                                              ..75

                                           INDIA

                     POWER SYSTEMDEVELOPMENT PROJECT -111

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                         SOUTH ASIA

                                            SASE1

Date: December 15, 2005                         Team Leader: Sunil Kumar Khosla
Country Director: Michael F. Carter             Sectors: Power (100%)
Sector ManagedDirector: Penelope J. Brook       Themes: Infrastructure services for private
                                                sector development (P);Regulation and
                                                competition policy (S)
Project ID: PO86414                             Environmental screening category: Full
                                                Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguard screening category: Limited impact

[XI Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 400.00
Proposed terms: V S L

                 Source                         Local           Foreign             Total
BORROWER                                         223.00           420.00             643.OO
INTERNATIONALBANKFOR                               0.00           400.00             400.00




Borrower:
Power Grid Corporation o f India Ltd.
B-9, Qutab Institutional Area
Katwaria Sarai
New Delhi
Delhi - 110016
India
 -Fax: 91(11)26560054

Responsible Agency:
Power Grid Corporation o f India, Ltd.
India

IFY                        Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
                2006      2007      2008      2009      2010     2011       0         0        0
 Annual          0.00     40.00     90.00    120.00   110.00     40.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
 Cumulative      0.00     40.00    130.00    250.00   360.00    400.00    400.00   400.00   400.00




 Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                       [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                       ]Yes [ IN0
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
 Re$ PAD C.5                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
 Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

 Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
 The objective o f the Project is to strengthenthe transmission system inorder to increase reliable
 power exchanges between the regions and states o f India.

 Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
 Annex 4
 The Project would support POWERGRID's investment program o f system strengthening inthe
 various regions and developing inter-regional transmission links to enhance the power exchange
 capacities, eventually helping enhance the national power grid.

   Component A: Transmission system strengthening schemes:
   This component will include strengthening o f the intra and inter-regional transmission systems
 for greater energy security, system reliability and to enhance inter-regional power exchanges.
 Technical assistance will be considered for enhancing inter-regional power exchange capacities
 and buildinga data base o f the system.

   Component B: Completion o f balance works o f the PSDP-I1project:
   This component will finance the completion o f some o f the investment schemes financed under
 Second Power System Development Project (loan 4603-IN) after its closing date.

 Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 Following safeguard policies are triggered
   Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01)
   Natural Habitats(OPA3P 4.04)
   Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
   Forests (OP/BP 4.36)

 Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:

Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:


Loadcredit effectiveness:
Creation o f the necessary pari passu arrangements for the negative lien requirement o f the Bank
loan.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
1.Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, POWERGRIDshall take all necessary steps to
maintain its accounts receivable at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to the proceeds o f
its transmission and other services for the precedingthree months.
  2. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, POWERGRIDshall not incur any debt, ifafter the
incurrence o f such debt, the ratio o f debt to equity shall be greater than 4 to 1.
  3. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, POWERGRIDshall take all necessary measures to
produce, each year, funds from internal cash generation equivalent to not less than 20 percent o f
its capital expenditures (three-year moving average).
  4. POWERGRID shall furnish to the Bank,not later than six months after the end o f each fiscal
year, certified copies o f its audited financial statements and Special Account Audit, and its
auditors' reports o f such scope and insuch detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
  5. POWERGRID shall furnish, not later than December 31o f each year, its ten-year financial
projections, includingits investment program and financing plan, for Bank review and
comments.
  6. POWERGRID shall maintain an appropriate organizational structure for implementing its
Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures, and unless the Bank otherwise agrees, shall not
waive, amend, modify, abrogate or repeal these Procedures.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

The Government o f India (GoI) has identifiedthe power sector as key to achieving its goals o f
highand sustainable economic growth and accelerated poverty alleviation. However, the sector
is currently inadequately positioned to support these goals. One critical constraint for growth
and poverty alleviation i s a deficit inpower sector capacity. India continues to face severe
power shortages: peak load shortages o f 12.1percent and energy shortages o f 7.2 percent' that
translate into substantial losses to the economy. Inaddition, giventhe current low level of
electricity access (According to 2001 census, 44.2 percent o f households lack access), the Go1
goal o f universal access by 2012 will require sizable additions to generation, transmission and
distribution capacity. The capacity constraint i s compounded by highlevels o f technical and
commercial losses2. While these losses are concentrated at the distribution level, their impact on
the sector i s pervasive; poorly performing state-level utilities poseboth a severe fiscal drain and
a limit on the financing and sustainability o f rapid system expansion.

Inrecent years, the Go1hastaken anumbero fkey steps to reformthe power sector. These
include the enactment in2003 o f a comprehensive and reform-focused Electricity Act (EA
2003), the institution o f commercial discipline on payments by the states to the central power
companies, and the implementation o f bulk power tariff reforms. These reforms, once fully
implemented,would provide a soundbasic framework for realizing the goals o fthe Go1for the
sector.

The capacity and efficient operation o fthe transmission sub-sector i s critical to the success of
broader sectoral reforms. The principal responsibility for grid strengthening and increases in
inter-state power transmission capacity rests with POWERGRID,the government-owned central
transmission utility. While there i s some private sector interest ingeneration and distribution,
private sector finance i s taking time to enter the transmission sector inIndia.
                                                                                                                         ~




The large distance between generating stations and load centers, andthe seasonal and daily
variation o f load demand across the regions, necessitate large power transfers across the country
and a strong transmission network. The existing transmissionnetwork is overloaded inmany
areas, leading to poor voltages and the potential for grid collapse. Although power trading is
increasing rapidlybetween the Indian state utilities and the generators, it i s currently still at a low
2.1% o f the total energy generation.

Key actions at the transmission level towards improvingoverall systemefficiency include the
implementation o f bulkpower tariffreforms, the enforcement o f griddiscipline, the facilitation
o f inter-state and inter-regional power transfers and trading, and the provision o f open access3to

 ' Source:Ministry of Power Annual Report 2004-2005.
   Transmissionand Distribution losses (T&D Losses) in 2002-03 stood at 32.54% (Source: Ministry of Power Annual Report2004-2005)
   'Open access' is definedunder the EA 2003 as non -discriminatory provision for the use of transmission lines or distribution systemor
associatedfacilities with such lines or system by any licensee or consumer or a person engaged in generation inaccordancewith the regulations
specifiedby appropriate commission.



                                                                        1

generators and users spread beyond state boundaries. Important improvements ingrid discipline
and the enforcement o f merit order dispatch have already been achieved by the implementation
o f the bulk power tariff reforms referred to as Availability Based Tariff (ABT). The ABT
includes frequency-linked pricing for unscheduled interchanges (UI). This tariff system provides
improved incentives for efficient generation, dispatch and off-take. The ABT, incombination
with the provisions o fthe EA 2003 mandating open access to transmission, provides a good basis
for the development o f a power trading market inIndia, andthus more efficient and effective use
of available power resources (See Annex 15).

As noted above, the viability o f system expansion and reinforcement depends critically on
performance at the state, and particularly the distribution, level. The EA 2003 provides a
framework for reform at the state level, and a number o f the States are now implementing
reforms includingthe unbundlingo f their power sector utilities, the establishment o f state
electricity regulators, and initial steps towards the implementation o f open access at the state
level. Traditionally the state power utilities have beenseen as a high credit risk for central power
sector entities based on a history o f poor payment. However, the recent central government
scheme to securitize past dues and incentivize current payments has significantly improvedthe
payment position and the prospective financial viability o f the central utilities.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank has been actively involved inthe reform o f the transmission sector inIndia, and
specifically inthe creation and development o f POWERGRID4. Inthe context o f its
engagements with POWERGRID,the Bank has dialogued actively with Go1on national-level
sector reforms. Key activities supported by the Bank include the establishment and operation o f
modem load dispatch centers, the establishment o f the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission (CERC) to regulate the interstate power sector, the implementation o f bulk power
tariff reforms to improve grid discipline and encourage efficient use o f generating capacity, steps
towards private participation inthe transmission sector, and improvement incommercial
discipline inthe sector.

The passage o f the EA 2003 and the announcement by the Go1o f ambitious goals for system
expansion have created new and complex challenges for the transmission sector. These
challenges provideboth the context and the rationale for continued Bank involvement. In
particular, Bank involvement can:

     a) help reduce the risk posed by delays inthe improvement o fpower infrastructure for
          India's sustainable economic development,by financing specific transmission system
          expansion and strengthening investments, and helping POWERGRIDto leverage funds
          for their broader system expansionplans;

     b) assist POWERGRIDand the Go1instrengthening ongoing reforms to enforce
          commercial discipline inthe sector, and inintroducing the second-generation reforms
          enacted inthe EA 2003, includingthe introduction o f open access, facilitating an increase


 Total Bank support to date amounts to US$1.9 billion under Ln.4603-IN, 3577-IN, and transmission components of earlier loans and credits to
India which were transferred to POWERGRIDfrom original executing agencies.



                                                                    2

       inpower trading, the development ofprivate sector participation inthe sector, andthe
       development o f transmission and bulk power pricing; and

    c) mobilize international experience to assist POWERGRIDinachieving international good
       practice standards inthe areas o f safeguards, financial management andprocurement
       systems, inline with POWERGFUD's objective o f maturing into an internationally
       competitive transmission company.

3. Higher level objectivesto which the projectcontributes

The proposed support for transmission comprises investments aimed at improvingthe outcome-
orientation and service delivery o f POWERGRID,by: (i)      facilitating more economic use o f
available generation resources; (ii)  providing greater grid stability; (iii)
                                                                           establishing the open
access regime for transmission mandated inthe EA 2003; and (iv) facilitating development o f a
power trading market within the country. This will helpthe power sector support growth in
Indianeconomy rather than constraining as it is a t the moment. This i s inline with the CAS
[8/26/2004] for India.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project is designed as a specific investment loan (SIL) using a time slice approach: the loan
will have the flexibility to finance POWERGRID'Sinvestment priorities duringthe identified
timeperiod, based onpre-defined criteria. The first year's investments have beenidentified and
are under preparation. After the first year, POWERGRIDwill choose project investments
according to its investment priorities and the pre-defined criteria. The borrower has chosen to
denominate the loan inU S dollars, considering the longer tenure available for such loans and to
meet the foreign exchange requirements o f international contracts. POWERGRIDhas decided to
continue with the variable spread option for this loan also.

2. Project developmentobjectiveand key indicators

The objective o f the project is to strengthenthe transmission systeminorder to increase reliable
power exchanges between the regions and states o f India.

Inorder to achievethis objective, the project is designedto focus on (i)    strengthening the
transmission system inthe power deficit regions and increasing inter-regional transmission
capacity, and (ii)developing the institutional capacity o f POWERGRIDto facilitate the
implementation o f open access and inter-regional trading.

The `Growth inPower Exchanges between the Regions' will be used as the key indicator to
measure the performance inachieving the development objectives o f the project (see Annex 3).




                                                  3

3. Projectcomponents

The table below shows the components o f the project and the estimated costs. Annex 4 provides
further details on each major component.

                      Component                           Indicativecost          BankFinancing
                                                              (US$M)                  (US$M)
 1. Transmission system strengthening                            968                    325
       schemes (Core Schemes)
  2. Completion o f balance works o f the PSDP-                  75                      75
      I1project ( Ln.4603-IN)
                           Total                                1043                    400


A description o fthe project bycomponent isprovidedbelow:

a) Transmissionsystemstrengtheningschemes
For more efficient operation o f the overall power system, inter-regional links need to be
established and the transmission network within the regions needs to be strengthened. The
proposed loanwill finance a part o f the next five-year time slice o f POWERGRIDinvestments to
achieve this level o f grid integration. The eligibility criteria for identification andplanning o f the
least-cost technical and economic options for each o f the investments inthis time slice have been
agreed with POWERGRID.These criteria also includes steps that POWERGRIDneed to follow
for adequate social and environmental safeguards. Using these criteria, POWERGRIDhas
identified three investment schemes aimed at strengthening the Western and Northernregion
systems (estimated cost U S D 968 million). These have been termed as "Core Schemes" under
this loan. Preparatoryworks have commenced, andthe schemes would start implementation in
the first year after loan effectiveness. Inaddition, a number o f "Candidate" Schemes have been
tentatively identified(or may be identified inthe future), and will be eligible for Bank financing
provided the project implementation plans submitted by POWERGRID establish that `these
schemes meet the eligibility criteria for financing under this project, as set out inAnnex 4. It i s
envisioned that by the time this loan i s fully committed, a follow-up loan will be considered to
continue funding the transmission development program, which could take over disbursements
under contracts awarded under this loan following Bank's procurement guidelines and
procedures.

This component will also include the technical assistance necessary for the implementation o f
these investments. Activities requiring expert advice, currently planned by POWERGRID,
include support for enhancing inter-regional power exchange capacities, mechanization o f
construction techniques to enhance efficiency and minimize environmental impacts and the
establishment o f a database o f system components. The Bank will assist POWERGRID in
identifying additional areas where assistance mayberequired to implement its responsibilities
underthe EA 2003. The detailed selection o ftechnical assistance to be financed under the
present loan will depend on the availability o f alternative grant finance for some activities, an
option preferredby POWERGRID and the Government.




                                                   4

b) Completion of balanceworks of the PSDP-I1Project(Ln. 4603-IN)
This component would provide the balance o f funds necessary for the completion of: (a)
National Load Dispatch and Control center; and (b) Transmission lines, Substations and other
procurements, taken up under PSDP-I1loan (4603-IN) after its closing date o f June 30,2006.
This component would also fund balance payments, if any, from other schemes under PSDP-11,
which may have completed before June 30,2006 but where these payments became due after the
closing date (such as contract retentions).

4. Lessons learnedand reflectedin the projectdesign

Over the last decade, the Bank has provided support inIndia to central government entities for
generation, transmission and renewable investments, and to selected State Electricity Boards
(SEBs) for investments associated with sectoral reform. The IFC has also been engaged in
supporting private participation ingeneration and transmission.

The results o f this engagement have been mixed. While central generation and transmission
engagements have generally yielded satisfactory results, the pace o f implementation has
dependedcritically on the institutional and operational strength o fthe partner entities. Inthese
cases, the development o f close partnerships between the Bank and the entities has been critical
inachievingtimelyresults onthe ground.

State-level engagements have proved more challenging. While some positive results have again
beenachieved, there i s now broad agreement that initialproject development objectives were
relatively ambitious given the political economy o f the sub-sector, and that careful attention i s
required to the difficult transitional issues involved inreform at the distribution level. A review
o fthe state-level reform experience conducted in 2002-03, and discussed extensively with both
the Go1and state-level partners, has resulted ina re-thinking both o f key reform steps and o f
Bank rules for engagement instate-level reforms. These rules o f engagement are reflected inthe
2004 CAS.

Key lessons for the present loan from these earlier engagements are that:

    a) a focus on the institutional viability and operational practices o f the implementing agency
        i s critical for solid and sustainable results on the ground; and

    b) State-levelproblems remain critically relevant to the financial health o fcentral entities
        like POWERGRID.Payments discipline by state utilities to POWERGRIDneeds to be
        closely monitored during implementation o f the project.

5. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

The following alternatives options were considered for this operation:

a) Conventional large investment operation: The Go1has requestedthe Bank to consider
lending for the transmission sector inthe order o f US$1 billion over the 2004 CAS period.
Processingo f a single conventional investment operation inresponse to this request would



                                                     5

require detailed identification and appraisal o f investments prior to loan approval. This
alternative i s seen as offering insufficient flexibility for aligning transmission schemes with
progress in generation projects. Runningone very large loan would also impose a greater burden
on India interms o f commitment charges.

b) Adaptableprogram lending (APL): An APL could have been an attractive option were it
possible to identify definitively in advance clear priorities and milestones for sector reform, and
to assure that such milestones were both meaningful and reasonably within the control o f the
implementing agency. These conditions do not hold inthe case o f reforms affecting
transmission under the EA 2003, which are still evolving. Accordingly, an APL i s seen as a
relatively risky option.

c) Time-Slice Lending: Given the nature o fPOWERGRID's operations as a transmission service
company, part o f its investment program i s linked to evolving generation projects inthe public
sector as well as inter-state and/or inter-regional mega projects developed by Independent Power
Producers (IPPs) and the growth inload demand. Accordingly, both the size and the
composition o f the investment program will inevitably undergo changes, depending on the speed
at which generating stations come on line and the timings o f load growth. A time-slice lending
approach would provide the necessary funding flexibility to respond to changes inits investment
program, more inline with commercial financing. On balance, the time slice approach was
considered superior to the alternatives because o f the operational flexibility it provides for
POWERGRIDand the Bank.

It is envisaged that the Bank will consider further financial support to POWERGRID's
investment program beyond this project, as needed, on the same time-slice basis, inaccordance
with India's continued progress insectoral reforms at the national level, and POWERGRID's
institutional development and growth.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

That part o f the investments not financed by the Bank will be funded from equity and local debt
finance. As with previous loans, ADB is implementinga project with POWERGRIDinparallel
to the proposed Bank funded operation. There are no overlaps between the two projects, and the
investments under each project have been confirmed as being complementary. POWERGRID is
comfortable with the financing and implementation arrangement for these parallel partnerships
and is endeavoring to harmonize the monitoring, reporting and evaluation requirements o f the
distinct operations.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

POWERGRID has over the last decade acquired and developed the skills required to
successfully plan and implement large transmission schemes (up to 765 kV AC and 500 kV
HVDC systems). Most o fthe schemes envisagedunder this operation would be designed,
engineered and implemented by POWERGRID.The assistance o f reputed international



                                                    6

consultants is likely to be required for more technically complex schemes, e.g. HVDC systems
with voltage level higher than 500kV. Local and foreign contractors engaged through
international competitive biddingwill carry out supply, installation and erection works.

Implementation arrangements will include the use o f the practices institutionalized under the
previous loans including the institutional oversight by the Ministry o f Power (MOP)and the
Ministryo fFinance (MoF). The CentralElectricity Authority (CEA) isresponsible, inter alia,
for sector planning and the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) i s responsible for
tariff formulation and notification as well as sectoral regulation. Boththese agencies will follow
their usualprocedureswith respect to the project investments.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

POWERGRIDwill provide to the Bank quarterly progress and financial managementreports,
quarterly information on progress on key entity and sectoral performance indicators andon
billingand collection, audited financial statements (within six months o fthe end o f each
financial year), and such other information as the Bank may reasonably require. These
arrangements are working ina satisfactory manner under the ongoing operations and will
continue under the proposed project. POWERGRTD will carry out a mid-termreview and report
its findings and conclusions to the Bank two and a half years after effectiveness, and will review
these with the Bank. Annex 3 sets out the key performance indicators for the project, which are
a subset o f a larger set o f indicators prepared by POWERGRID.The Bank will field
implementation review missions two to three times per year, as with previous operations, and
will continue observing POWERGRID's institutional growth and development and the GoI's
policies for power sector development.

Sustainability
The principal issue o f sustainability for this project is the GoI's and POWERGRID's continued
commitment to India's ongoing program o f power sector restructuring, and particularly the
implementation o f the mandate o f the EA 2003. The GoI, CERC and POWERGRIDhave
reaffirmed their commitment to the implementation o f the Act, including following the change o f
Government in2004. POWERGRID's commitment i s also evidenced intheir performance inthe
implementation o f ongoing Bank-supported projects.

One o f the most significant threats to POWERGRID'Ssustainability has beenthe historical
failure o f its state utility customers to pay their bills infull and on time. The securitization
mechanism introduced by Go1has done muchto resolve this situation and payment discipline
has substantially improved. When defaults have taken place, POWERGRIDhas enforced supply
regulation as per the terms o f securitization mechanism. Continued adherence to these strict
credit policies and enforcement o f collection mechanisms will require concerted efforts by
POWERGRIDandthe GoI. To ensure the continuation o fthese improvements, the covenant on
the level o f accounts receivable used inthe PSDP I1loan will be repeated under this loan, with
further tightened norms, to reflect the progress madeto date.




                                                     7

4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

Risksfor the achievement o fthe project objectives are primarily linked to the continued
commitment o f the Go1to its power sector reform goals. The Government has publicly
announced these goals and is actively pursuingthem. .

                                                                                     RiskRating
             Risk                            RiskMitigation Measure                      after
                                                                                      Mitigation
To development objective:
Financial performance      -   POWERGRID's financial performance has                 Low
POWERGRID's financial          improved consistently, and it meets all the financial
performance deteriorates.      covenants. Continued Bank involvement i s
                               expected to assist POWERGRIDinaccessing
                               commercial sources at better terms o f financing on
                               its own strength.
Tar$@   - Tariffs inthe        Investment costs are highinthe North East as the      Lowmedium
North-East Region are          investments are built allowing for expansion given
kept below cost recovery       the large future generation plans for that area and
and as a result                the restricted rights o f way. CERC and MOP are
POWERGRIDdoes not              well aware o f this problem and are working on
get adequate tariffs from      methods o f ensuring that POWERGRIDi s provided
the North East to justify      adequate tariffs to recover the cost o f its
investments in system          investments. The Bank will assist with this process
strengthening or               and will also work with POWERGRIDin
interconnections.              developing cost-effective ways o f buildingand
                               pricing transmission capacity.
Institutional development      The Bank i s helping POWERGRIDstrengthen              L o w
- Adequate attention i s not itself through a benchmarking exercise with
paid to continued              international utilities inthe areas o f financial
institutional develoument.     management, procurement safeguards.
Commercial aspects       - The POWERGRIDhas been implementing the                    Lowmedium
commercial discipline in       provisions o f the Tripartite Agreement', and as a
force as a result o f          result, its receivables are well within the covenant.
securitization deteriorates,   The Bank will continue to support POWERGRID
and arrears beginbuilding inits efforts to maintain the pressure on timely
up again.                      payments.
                               As open access leads to more large consumers
                               directly contracting, additional emphasis will need
                               to be placed on contract provision and their
r                              enforcement since this will be outside the Tripartite
                               Agreement.
Open access    -               The Bank and POWERGRIDhave been discussing            Medium
POWERGRIDis                    the uolicies on oDen access with Go1and CERC. in


5See details inthe section D.1


                                                    8

mandated to make                order to ensure that open access does not lead to
investments for open            either losses for POWERGRIDor redundant
access for which it i s not     investments inthe system.
adequately compensated          As noted above, tariffpolicy i s expected to be
or which prove to be            reviewed inlight o f ensuring incentives and
technicallv inefficient.        financial sustainabilitv o f investments.
To component results:
Delays inimplementation         Advance procurement action i s being taken for the    Low
o f key investments.            investments inthe first year of the project.
                                POWERGRIDhas demonstratedits ability to plan
                                and implement even complex investments on time
                                and to cost.
Inadequate                      POWERGRID has already institutionalized these         L o w
implementation o f social       policies inits environmental and social policy
andenvironmental                framework, and takes advance action on
safeguards policies             implementing these policies inall its investments.
                                The Bank will continue to monitor the
                                implementation o f these policies infuture
                                investments.
Overall rating                                                                        Low/Medium

Controversial aspects:-
No controversial aspects related to this operation have been identified. Inparticular, no major
social or environmental issues are anticipated inPOWERGRID's operations.

5. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Standard Bank legal requirements (guarantee agreement between the Government and
POWERGRIDineffect, legal opinions onthe Government/ POWERGRIDagreements with the
Bank).

Security arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. Some o f POWERGRID'stransmission assets are
subject to liens. The Bank therefore also requires liens, which will rankparipassu with other
lienholders, insuch form as the Bank may reasonably require.

POWERGRIDshall furnishto the Bank,not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, certified copies o f its audited financial statements and Special Account Audit, and its
auditors' reports o f such scope and insuch detail as the Bank may reasonably request.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, POWERGRIDshall take all necessary measures to
produce, each year, funds from internal cash generation equivalent to not less than 20 percent of
its capital expenditures (three-year moving average).

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, POWERGRID shall not incur any debt, if after the
incurrence o f such debt, the ratio o f debt to equity shall be greater than 4 to 1.




                                                     9

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, POWERGRIDshall take all necessary steps to
maintain its accounts receivable at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to its billing for
transmission and other regulated services for the preceding three months.

The Go1shall take all necessary steps to allow POWERGRIDto maintain its accounts receivable
at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to its billing for transmission and other regulated
services for the preceding three months.

POWERGRID shall furnish, not later than December 31o f each year, its ten-year financial
projections, including its investment program and financing plan, for Bank review and
comments.

POWERGRIDshall prepare a detailed Project lmplementation Planfor each Investment Scheme
presentedto the Bank for approval.

POWERGRIDshall carry out the project inaccordance with satisfactory technical specifications
and standards, and the Environmental and Social Policies andProcedures, includingplans to
mitigate adverse impacts prepared under such Procedures.

POWERGRIDshall provide monthly reports on collection andbilling and quarterly reports on
the progress o fthe project. The mid-term review o f the project shall be carried out by December
31, 2008.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analysis

POWERGRID's current financial performance i s satisfactory. The regulatory framework is
designedto provide tariffs to enable the company to obtain a returnon equity (ROE)o f 14%.
Financial projections (summary table at Annex 9) demonstrate that, subject to tariff adjustments
inlinewith current regulatory framework, POWERGRID's financial performance will remain
adequate to support its investments.

Reduction intechnical losses has been used as one physical measure o f project benefits.
POWERGRIDhas estimatedthis reduction inlosses to be about 438 MW under peak load
conditions, which represents an annual reduction o f 2033MUwith implementation o f the core
schemes.

Inorder to calculate the Economic Rate o fReturn (ERR)ofthe project, the losses havebeen
valued usingthe generation cost o f recently commissioned thermal plants, which was Rs 3.62 per
kWh. This assumptionis a more conservative estimate comparedwith the avoided cost o f diesel
generation (Rs 5.70 per kWh) used by CERC to value such reductions.




                                                 10

The ERRs for the core schemes are higher than the opportunity cost o f capital o f 12%. The ERRs
are inthe range o f 14.83% to 15.96% inthe base case and 10.46% to11.06% inthe most adverse
case6.

The financial appraisal o f the project has beencarried out usingthe Returno f Equity as an index,
since the cost o f debt is a pass through inthe tariff. The ROEfor the core schemes are
satisfactory and inthe range o f the estimated cost o f equity for POWERGRIDo f 12% to 14%.
See Annex 9.

Government o f Indiai s planning to divest a small portion o f its equity inwell performing public
sector entities through a public sale, to recover some o f its investments for other priority sectors
and also allow wider public participation inthe ownership o f such companies. This exercise
would not significantly dilute the Go1ownership structure as the proportion sold will be small.
NTPC was the first central public sector to make a public offering inthe power sector and there
is a possibility that POWERGRIDcould be one o f the entities considered inthe future. We have
assessedas part o f our review the impact o f any such sales and conclude that such move is
unlikelyto have any negative impact on the financial scenarios or POWERGRID'sability to
service the Bank loan.

POWERGRID's main financial risk is the risk o f non-payment by off-taking state utilities, which
was a significant problem for many years, but this risk has been largely addressed through the
securitization o fpast debts established inthe Tripartite Agreement o f 2003. Under this
arrangement, satisfactory payment discipline has been maintained over the last year. Currently,
POWERGRID's accounts receivable stand at 2.02 months o f sales as on August 31, 2005, and
collections are currently inthe region o f 98% each month.

The proposed three financial covenants (accounts receivable, debt to equity and self financing
ratios) are the same as POWERGRID'sexisting covenants except that the accounts receivable
covenant i s now set at three months o f sales rather than the four months usedunder PSDP 11,
reflecting the improvements incollection efficiency noted above. Annex 9 presents the key
financial statements, showing forecast compliance with proposed financial covenants for the next
ten years, and the assumptions used inthe projections.

2. Technical

The project does not pose any particular technical risks, given POWERGRID's demonstrated
capabilities intransmission system development and the use o f proven technologies and
implementation practices. POWERGRIDselects and designs schemes inits investment program
based on comprehensive planning and system studies, and after obtaining technical clearances
from the Standing Committee constituted by the CEA. POWERGRIDhas demonstrated the
capacity to implement Bank-financed schemes within agreed costs and time schedules.

As o fMarch31,2005 POWERGRIDoperated about 51,000 circuit kmo ftransmission lines,
comprising 765 kV A C lines and 500 kV H V D C back to back and long distance transmission


6 This case assumes a reduced ROEof13%0,an implementation delay of2 years, a cost escalation of 10%and foreign
exchange rate reduction by 10%. However, this scenario i s very unlikely, given POWERGRID's track record.


                                                       11

systems with a total installed transformation capacity o f about 50,000 MVA distributed over 85
substations. The schemes successfully completedby POWERGRIDinclude a 1387-km H V D C
bi-pole link from Talcher to Kolar interconnecting Eastern and Southern regions, a 937-km
765kV single circuit transmission lines from Kishenpur to Moga and from Tehn to Meerut in
Northern region, and three regional multi-hierarchical load dispatch centers.

3. Fiduciary

POWERGRIDhas an adequate financial management systemand framework for carrying out the
functions assigned to it under the project, including accounting and reporting for project
resources and expenditures. POWERGRID's financial managementperformance under previous
loans has been satisfactory.

Project funds will be disbursed initially under traditional procedures, with an option o f
converting to a reports-based disbursement. POWERGRIDhas been maintaining its equity
contribution' at 30 % o f the total cost inall the schemes. As such, the overall Bank loan share in
any scheme would bemaximum 70% o fits total cost, while disbursement under the Bank loan
would be made upto 100% for the contracts which have followed the World Bank guidelines for
procurement.

POWERGRID's systems are well equipped to generate quarterly FMRs (which will report on the
fullproject costs) inthe agreed formats detailed inthe PIP. To meet the fiduciary requirements,
the Bank will receive (i) a project audit report and (ii) entity audit report of POWERGRID
                                                           the
within 6 months o fthe endo fthe fiscal year. The project (all components) will be auditedby an
independent firm o f chartered accountants, acceptable to the Bank, under agreed terms o f
reference. The internal audit department o f POWERGRIDwill carry out an internal audit o f the
concerned Region (including IBRD financed project) and will ensure that operational,
 accounting, payment and procurement procedures are followed inimplementation o f the project.

Procurement for the project will be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004 and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y
2004.

 Goods to be procured under "Supply Contracts" for the core schemes identified under this loan
will include 765 kV and 400 kV Conductor and Insulators for transmission lines and 500 kV
H V D C Conductor and Insulator packages. These will be procured inabout 20 lots/packages.
The value o f contract packages for goods to be procured on "supply" contract basis will range
 from about USD 1million to USD 14 million.

Further goods and equipment for transmission systems will beprocured under "Supply and
Install" contracts. Such goods and equipment will be procured inabout15 lots / packages. The
value o f contract packages for goods to be procured on a "Supply and Install" contract basis will


'CERCallows
~~




              POWERGRID a return o f 14% on equity up to a maximumof 30% equity inany scheme, and
POWERGRID has beenmaintaining its equity contribution inall the schemes at this level.


                                                   12

range from about USD 2 to 383 million. The largest package i s for the procurement o f H V D C
Terminal at Balia and Bhiwadi.

Allprocurement o f goods under "Supply" and "Supply and Install" contractswill follow the
International competitive biddingprocedures o f the Bank.The procurement o f goods will be
carried out usingthe Bank's Standard BiddingDocument (SBD) for the Goods and the Bank's
SBD for "Supply and Installation o f Plant and Equipment" as a base and as agreed with the
procurement unit inthe Bank's New Delhi Office. Similarly, the Bank's Standard RFP will be
used as a base for procurement o f all consultancies under the project.

4. Social

As the project includes strengthening o f transmission lines and establishing grid substations
(GSS), which could involve land acquisition, it can be expected to have some social impacts.
POWERGRIDplans to reduce adverse social impacts through: (i)         avoidance o f transmission
routes involving human displacement; (ii)    ensuring that routes do not threaten the survival of any
community (with particular reference to tribal groups); and (iii)  ensuring that routes do not
adversely affect public utility services. Although no physical displacement is envisaged,
constructing GSS may involve land acquisition affecting economic livelihoods. POWERGRID
has made significant efforts to reduce its demand for land. As a result, GSS currently require 15-
40 hectares o f land as against earlier requirements inthe order o f 20-60hectares, depending on
voltage level.

POWERGRIDhas beenaddressing social issues associated with transmission schemes through
the application o f its Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures (ESPP), agreed with the
Bank in 1998, which has beenrevised inMarch,2005 based on the experience of the past six
years implementation (See Annex 10). The ESPP i s applicable to all schemes implemented by
POWERGRID, irrespective o f sources o f funding. On social aspects, the revised ESPP
specifically includes a resettlement/Rehabilitation entitlement framework and a strategy to
address the issues and concerns o f vulnerable groups, including tribal groups, etc., associated
with any investmentprogram. POWERGRIDhas undertaken social impact assessments andhas
preparedResettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for each o f the first-year investments (Wardha, Balia
and Bhiwadi grid substations). These R A P s have been reviewed by the Bank.

At the corporate level, POWERGRIDhas established a strong Environment and Social
Management Division (ESMD) headedby a General Manager, and supported by seven
environment and social specialists under the overall control o f an Executive Director (Corporate
Planning). Ineach o f the seven regions o f POWERGRID,there i s one separate unit headedby a
DeputyGeneral Manager /Chief Manager responsible for managing social and environmental
activities and ensuring coordination with ESMD inthe corporate office.

POWERGRIDwill continue monitoring social and environmental issues through a monitoring
mechanism established at the corporate, regional and field levels. Evaluation o f social action
planswill be undertakenthrough external agencies. POWERGRIDhas constituted a committee
of experts, with bothnational and international experience, to review the planning and




                                                 13

implementation o f social and environmental management plans. Inaddition, the Bank will
supervise the social and environmental components o f the projectjointly with POWERGRID.

5. Environment

Transmission schemes are generally environmentally clean and non-polluting in nature. Their
impact on the environment i s generally restricted to rights o f way (ROW). The schemes
implemented by POWERGRID typically do not involve disposal o f any pollutant in land, air or
water, nor any large-scale excavation that may result in soil erosion.            Given the large
geographical spread o f the transmission system (voltages above 400 kV and relatively large
substations), and given the assumption that some o f the project transmission lines may pass
through forested areas, the project has been assigned a safeguard category "A". Accordingly,
safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment OP4.01 and Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04 have
beentriggered.

The following are the key features o f the POWERGRID'SESPP as regards environmental issues,
which i s applicable for all projects, irrespective o f financing source:

a) Environmental Assessment processfor schemes - The environmental clearance process for
schemes will include environmental assessment intwo stages. Duringthe first stage
POWERGRID will prepare an initial environment assessment report (IEAR) based on the
available GIS survey for fixing line routes and sensitive areas such as reserved forests, wild life
sanctuary, national park, protected areas supported by public consultation and ground survey,
particularly with reference to sensitive areas and other important points, ifany. The IEAR is
expected to capture all significant environmental issues supported by an environmental
management plan, includingbudget provisions. The second stage will produce a final
environmental assessment report, to be submitted after completion o f a detailed survey o f the
entire route and minor site specific changes. This will also include a socio-economic survey
conducted by a thirdparty in consultation with affectedpeople, after the selected landi s notified
underthe Land Acquisition Act. The Environmental Assessment reports for each scheme will
include a set o f indicators and a mitigation planto be supervised during the implementation
stage. The details o f this process are outlined inAnnex 10.

b) Route selection: POWERGRIDwill increase the use o f scientific tools such as GIS/GPS for
route alignment and finalization o f locations o f substations, supported by ground truthing,
following the principle o f avoiding human rehabilitation and impacts on natural resources such
as national parks and biosphere and eco-sensitive zones. POWERGRIDwill continue to use
engineering design interventions to avoidminimize environment and social impacts, such as
adopting innovative tower design (e.g. multi-circuit and very tall towers) to protect wildlife and
trees inecologically sensitive areas.

c) Management System: POWERGRIDhas adopted a certified comprehensive "Integrated
Management System" (IMS) comprising International Management System viz. ISO: 14001for
Environment Management, OHSA: 18001for Occupational Health & Safety and I S 0 9001 for
Quality management. This will enhance the effectiveness o f ESPP implementation. As a




                                                   14

requirement o f retaining certification, POWERGRIDhas engageda thirdparty, internationally
accredited organization to regularly audit the effectiveness o f its IMS.

d) Institutional arrangements: These are the same as those described for social matters, under the
ESMD.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                              [XI                     [I
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [XI                     [I
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [I                     [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [XI                     [I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                 [XI                     [I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   [XI                     [I
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            [I                     [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [I                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                     [XI




7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

N o policy exceptions have been sought.

POWERGRIDhas started preparing the investment schemes, andhas developed a project
implementation plan that indicates the status o f various actions for the core schemes.
Environment and Social management plans have been prepared, and detailed plans for the
implementation o f the first year activities have also beenprepared. POWERGRIDhas already
obtained investment approval for the three core schemes from GoI. Inparallel, POWERGRID
has startedpreparation o f technical specifications and bidding documents. POWERGRIDhas
already issued "Invitation for Bids (IFB)" for major packages valued at about US$440 million,
following the M a y 2004 Bank procurement guidelines for supply and installation packages.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputed areas



                                                            15

                            Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                     INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    - I11

Introduction

The goal o f universal access by 2012 beingpursued by Go1will require sizeable additions to
generation, transmission and distribution capacity. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has
projected a peak load o f 157 GW in2011-12 (end o f EleventhPlan) for the country as a whole,
compared to 75 GW o f peak demand met during 2003-04, requiring an increase o f 91GW in
generation capacity.* Duringthe Tenth plan period, capacity addition o f 41 GW is envisaged (of
which, 56% would be developed by the central sector, 27% by states and 17% by private
players). Augmentation o f transmission and distribution infrastructure will need to be
commensurate with these expansions ingeneration.

Investment in India's generation and transmission capacity have been slow to materialize,
particularly with private finance, mainly because the off-taking utilities, the State Electricity
Utilities, are not creditworthy and the regulatory environment i s perceived as risky.                                             To a
significant extent, this problem will persist into the near future. Domestic and agriculture tariffs
are still far below the cost o f supply and losses (incorporating technical losses and pilferage)
continue to be high at the state transmission and distribution level.g Thus, in most States, the
power utilities are a serious drain on the state exchequer. In addition, recent actions after the
general election in 2004, particularly the introduction o f "free power" for agriculture in some
states, have pushedback the sustainability o fthe sector still further.

These problems are clearly recognized by the GoI, which i s working towards solutions. Inthis
respect, signs o f progress include the enactment o f the new Electricity Act o f 2003; the creation
o f the state and central independent regulatory commissions; improvedpayment discipline by the
states to central sector companies with agreements ("tripartite agreements" on securitization o f
past dues; introduction o f the bulk power tariff reforms and facilitation o f increased electricity
trading. This improving sector environment provides an opportunity to the Government, the
Bank and the other financers to ensure that future expansion o f investment i s based on financial
and economic sustainability, intandem with the process o f institutional reform.

GovernmentLegislation and Policies

As noted above, Go1has producednew legislation to address some o fthe sector issues. The
Electricity Act (EA2003) was notified inJune 2003," includingnotable reforms such as:


     0     the introduction o f an open access system to facilitate a more competitive power sector
           for large consumers ;
     0     the de-licensing o f generation;


 Past record of meeting projected growth inthe power sector is poor in India. Duringthe NinthPlan, a capacity addition of 40 GW was
envisaged, but only 19 GW (47% o f the target) was achieved.
 When linked with uncollected bills the aggregate technical and commercial losses can be in excess o f 50%.
lo CASalsonotesthatthereformsenvisagedintheElectricityAct2003"provide thebasisforanewpartnershipwiththeCenterandthe
  The
Bank Group to support transmission, distribution andgeneration in India".



                                                                     16

    0   actions to simplify the provision o f rural access; and
    0   further unbundling o f the sector to facilitate greater competition, such as the separation o f
        trading from transmission.

Implementing the EA 2003 has involved the formulation and then publication by Go1o f several
key policy documents. Ofthese, the National Electricity Policy and Rural Electrification Policy
have been finalized and drafts o f other policies are under discussion with various stakeholders.
Work has also progressed at CERC, POWERGRID, the state regulators and other power sector
entities inestablishing the rules, regulations and procedures for applying open access. See Annex
15 for details.

Developmentof POWERGRID

POWERGRID has been appointed by the Government o f India as the Central Transmission
Utility for the country. It operates andmaintains one o fthe largest extrahighvoltage (EHV)
transmission networks inthe world, with about 51,000 circuit k m s ofbothAC andD C
transmission network up to 765 kV voltage level and 85 sub-stations with transformation
capacity o f about 50,000 MVA". It also owns and operates the five state o f the art multi-
hierarchy regional load dispatch centers (RLDC) inthe country. About 45% o f total power
generated inthe country, more than 200 billion kWh, worth US$ 9 billion per year, i s transmitted
across the country over POWERGRID'Stransmission network. The system is now routinely
operated at 99% availability each year.

POWERGRIDhas developed into a well-respected public sector enterprise, which attracts highly
qualified staff, who are employing international standards o f design, engineering, construction
and finance. Contracts are let through a transparent Works and Procurement Policy and
Procedure, which i s well advertised and disseminated. POWERGRIDwas the first public sector
entity inIndiato adopt a corporate environment and social policy andprocedure (ESPP). This
ESPP outlines POWERGRID'Scommitment to address environment and social issues and lays
out management procedures and protocols to effectively manage and mitigate them.

POWERGRIDhas a continuing program o f development and had sought World Bank assistance
inachieving aninternational benchmark standard o fperformance. Ithas initially identified
following areas as the next focus o f its development, on each o f which it had convened a
committee o f independent experts as follows:

a) Technical Capabilities Modem survey techniques like Geographical Information System
(GIS) surveys based on satellite imageries superimposed on Survey o f Indiatopographical sheets
are already being used for transmission line planning. The high resolution (5.8 meters) helps
minimize the length o f the lines by fixing the route o f the line as near as possible to the most
direct route, reducing construction costs by avoiding difficult areas like marshy land and to
minimizing the impact on environmentally sensitive areas.           The digital tower spotting and
digitizing o f the route and tower locations, would help in reducing the time to attend the
operational emergencies as well operational costs. This system also helps in preparing accurate
engineering details for preparing contract specifications for the transmission lines.

  As o fMarch31.2005


                                                   17

POWERGRID is establishing a Center for power transmission research and applications to
further is research and development activities and ensure that it keeps pace with emerging new
technologies and procedures. It has also constituted an Expert Committee on Research and
Development, which will advise POWERGRID on new transmission technologies, equipment
life extension measures and guide research and development activities (especially in fields o f
extra highvoltage A C and D C transmission).
b) Environment and Social Safeguards. Transmission projects' environmental and social
impacts are restricted mainly to those associated with rights o f way and land for building
substations. However, given the scale o f the national grid, it i s inevitable that there i s some
impact both on natural environment and communities. POWERGRID has taken a pro-active
approach towards avoidance, minimization and mitigation o f any impact on environment and
communities. The Environment and Social Management Department (ESMD) has been staffed
to pursue this mandate and to mainstream social and environmental issues into the design,
planningand implementation process (see Annex 10).
POWERGRIDhas formed a committee o f independent experts o fnational and international
repute, to help review its ESPP, to develop measures to be taken for more effective ESA
outcomes and to advise on organizational or other adjustments needed to implement corporate
policies and adequately integrate good practice. Inaddition the processes adopted under the
recent qualification o f POWERGRID for I S 0 14001, which will be integrated with the corporate
ESPP indue course, and will help inthird party checks and feedback.
c) Financial management. In order to improve its financial management policies, systems,
procedures, and its treasuryhinancing, POWERGRID has constituted an expert committee on
Financial Management chaired by the ex-Comptroller and Auditor General o f India. Inaddition,
POWERGRIDhas begunto update its accounting manuals and introduce revised procedures for
such issues as budgeting, bond management, employee benefits, and internal audit.
POWERGRIDhas an action plan in this regard which will be followed up during the course o f
the loan. (See also Annex 7)
d) Procurementas noted above, POWERGRIDhas adoptedtransparent works and procurement
policy and procedures, which are publicly available on the website. A committee has also been
constituted, with representatives from a range o f prominent Indianagencies, which will examine
such issues as audit queries, complaints, issues pertaining to procurement, project execution and
financial aspects raisedby external agencies. This committee will also recommend
improvements to the existing systems andprocedures. (See also Annex 8)

Sector Reformand PrivateParticipationin Transmission
POWERGRIDis a keyparticipant inseveral sector reform initiatives such as the introduction o f
open access andpromotion o f private participation intransmission o f power. As the operator o f
the Regional Load Dispatch Centers, POWERGRIDhas been instrumental informulation o f
guidelines and procedures for short-term open access. It has also developed an online bidding
system for open access to constrained transmission lines (see Annex 15).
POWERGRIDwas initially giventhe mandate to promote private participation intransmission
and it successfully initiated the first joint venture inpower transmission inIndia. At the same
time it endeavored to secure the introduction o f India's first Independent Power Transmission
Company (ITPC), through promotion o f a BOOT project. However, this attracted only one bid,


                                                    18

which was not ultimately accepted by CERC, demonstrating that the private sector still perceives
there to be significant risk inthe sector. However, since then, POWERGRIDhas floated three
morejoint venture projects, inwhich there has been significant interest. There are plans,
gradually, to shift the risk involved inthe joint venture projects away from POWERGRID and
towards the private partner - the latest solicitation takes some steps towards this.

POWERGRIDhadits experience inencouraging private participation intransmission reviewed
by an international expert. While POWERGRIDno longer has the mandate to promote private
sector participation intransmission inIndia, it has, as the Central Transmission Utility, an
important role indevelopment o fpolicies and procedures inthis area. The Bank will continue to
work with POWERGRID and CERC on these issues. Results from an initial review, undertaken
by a consultant on behalf o fthe Bank, o f the private transmission projects inIndia and how they
compare to similar projects inLatin America are beingdisseminated.

Bank supportto date

The Bank has, over the last decade, supported investments inthe power sector to promote
sectoral reforms at the state as well at national level. At the national level, the focus i s mainly on
generation (renewable and thermal) and inter-state transmission. With the Bank's support, Go1
and some state governments have made significant progress inreforms inthe power sector.
Although the over all pace o freform has been much slow, significant achievements have been
made such as the establishment o f independent regulatory regimes at the state and national level
and functional unbundlingwhich has helped bring greater accountability and focus on
commercial operation, especially inthe distribution business.

Bank supportto this project

A strong transmission network is essential ina country which has such long distances between
generating stations and load centers and variation o f load demand across the states (both seasonal
and daily), necessitatinglarge power transfers across the country. The existing transmission
system needs improvement as the network i s overloaded inmany areas, leading to poor voltages
and potential for grid collapse. Giventhis, Go1has asked the Bank to assist infurther
strengthening the inter-linkages between the regions and establishing a national transmission
network.

Support for this investment and the related technical assistance provided through this loan
would:


    0   provide improved service at the transmission level and help address the system
        bottlenecks that exist as well as supporting the general development o f a national
        transmission network, sometimes requiring new and innovative solutions;
    0   helpcreate some surplus capacity to support short-term and long-term open access, thus
        helpingcreate an environment inwhich large consumers have an effective choice o f
        power provider;
    0   further improve the environment for investment since issues relating to the solicitation o f
        investments as well as the way they are remunerated through the pricing system will all



                                                   19

  have to begin to be addressed. This includes consideration of the way that transmission
  tariffs are determined; and
0 provide further opportunities for private sector participation inthe transmission system
  (this should also help create a more positive environment ingeneral for private sector
  participation inthe power sector).




                                           20

                  Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                           INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                - I11

                               WORLD BANKAIDED PROJECTSINTHE ENERGY                     SECTOR


                                 Status         Approval           IP       DO       Sector Issues
                                                Date               ratings  ratings
                                 Supervision    3 May 2001         S        S        Improvement o f Grid and power system
      Development Project- I1                                                        commercial operations. Independent
     1                                                                               Regulation
      IN: Orissa Power Project   Closed         14 May 1996        U        U        Sector sustainability problems due to
                                                                                     high losses. Independentregulation,
                                                                                     sector reforms.
      IN: Renewable Energy       Supervision    27 June 2000                         Development o f small hydro resources
      II/Energy Efficiency                                                           through private sector investments.
                                                                                     Promote Energy Efficiency investments.
      IN:UPPowerSector           Closed         25 April 2000                        Sector sustainability problems due to
      Restructuring.                                                                 high losses. Independent regulation,
                                                                                     sector reforms.
      IN:RajasthanPower          Supervision    18 January                            Sector sustainability problems due to
      Sector Restructuring                      2001                                 high losses. Independent regulation,
      Project                                                                         sector reforms.
      IN:NathpaJhakriHydro       Closed         2 March 1989                         Power Shortages, strengthen HPSEB
      Power                                                                           operations, strengthen institutional
                                                                                      capacity development o f hydropower.
      IN:Haryana Power Sector    Closed         15 January         U        U         Sector sustainability problems due to
      Restructuring Project                     1998                                  high losses. Independent regulation,
                                                                                      sector reforms.
      IN:Andhra Power Sector     Closed         18 February        S        S         Sector sustainability problems due to
      Restructuring Project                     1999                                  highlosses. Independentregulation,
                                                                                      sector reforms. Highuntargeted subsidy
     I                                         I
           Ratings: HS= Highly satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=l isatisfaci 'y; HU= ighly Unsatisfactory;


                         ASIAN DEVELOPMENT       BANKAIDED PROJECTSINTHE ENERGY                   SECTOR

PROJECT                       TYPE       Approval        Executing          Objectives and Scope
                                         Date            Agency
Uttarancha1Power Sector       Loan        2005           Uttarancha1        Expansion o f the northern grid and increase the pace
Proiect                                                  Energy and         o f economic development inless-developed regions in
                                                         Irrigation         Uttaranchal State
                                                         Department
Power Grid l'ransmnission     Loan       21December      Power Grid         Strengthen India's national transmission grid to
(Sector) Proiect                         2004            Corporationo f     improve systemreliability, facilitate power transfers
                                                         India Ltd.         and reduce losses.
Assani Power Sector           Loan        10 December    Assam State        Strengthening o f transmission and distribution
Development Program                      2003            Electricity Board  systems
(Proiect Loan')
Assam Power Sector            Loan                       Govt. o f Assam    Improvement o f financial viability o f sector, and
Development Prowam                                                          assistance in development o f legal and regulatory
                                                                            framework for sector growth.



                                                                21

State Power ReformProject   Loan      12 December      Power Finance        Line ofcredit for power sector financing.
                                      2002             Corporation Ltd.
Madhva Pradesh Pov.er SDP   Loan      6 December Madhya Pradesh            Facilitate the restructuring o f the power sector to
(Proiect Loan)                        2001             Electricity Board    improve sector efficiencies.
Madhva Pradesh Power        Loan      6 December       Government o f      Facilitate the restructuring o f the power sector to
Sector Development Program            2001             Madhya Pradesh       improve sector efficiencies.
Hvdropower DeveloDment      PPTA      6 May 2004       National             Strengthening the feasibility studies o f two


                                      23 August
Development Proarain                  2004

                                                       Uttarancha1
Assaxti Power Sector        PPTA      29 October       Assam State          Facilitate the restructunng o f the power sector to
Development Project                   2002             Electricity Board    improve sector efficiencies.
Enerav Efticiency           PPTA      2 1 June 2002    Govt. o f India      Study o f the feasibility o f developing an active market
Euhaticement                                                                for energy efficiency.
Power Sector Development    PPTA      4 October        Govt. o f Kerala     Project preparation for improvement o f sector
Program (Kerala)                      2001                                  performance, and policy and legislative reforms.


                      InternationalFinanceCorporationAided Projectsin the Energy Sector

Project              IType   Proj. Board Company                                          Objective
                             Date
AD Hydro power               24 Sept        Allain Duhangan Power Company Ltd.            To help meet peak and energy shortages
Limited                      2004           (ADPCL) will bejointly owned by               through construction o f a 192MW run-of-
                                            Rajasthan Spinning & Weaving Mills            the-riverhydroelectric power plant in
                                            Ltd., HEG Limited and Malana Power            Himachal Pradesh
                                            Company Ltd.
Tala Transmission     Loan   31 Jul2003     A joint venture betweenTata Power             Promotion o f the first public privatejoint
                                            Company Ltd. and Power Grid                    transmission project inIndia; Expansion
                                            Corporationo f India Ltd. to establish the     o f inter-regional transmission capacity
                                            Tala Transmission project.                     and evacuation o f power from the 1,020
                                                                                           MW Tala Hydroelectric Project in
                                                                                           Bhutan.
                             25 Jul2005     Dodson-LindblomHydropower Private              To develop MiniHydro Power Plants in
Lindblom                                    Limited(DLHPPL) andAscent Hydro                India
Hvdropower Private                          Projects Limited (Ascent) merged into
Limited)                                    one company, Indian Hydropower
                                            Development Corporation (IHDC).




                                                             22

                             Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                  INDIA: POWER SYSTEMDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            - I11

                                        ResultsFramework

               PDO                      OutcomeIndicators             Use of OutcomeInformation
To strengthen the transmission      o    Growth inpower exchange      To determine ifthe PDO is being
system in order to increase              between the regions          reached
reliable power exchanges                                              Measure increase inpower exchange
between the regions and states.                                       and locus o f supplyidemand,
                                                                      Identify bottlenecks and revise
                                                                      future investment plan accordingly.

     IntermediateResults             ResultsIndicatorsfor Each          Use of ResultsMonitoring
     One per Component                      Component
ComponentOne: Transmission          o    Growth intransmission        Component One:
Systemstrengthening(investments          capacity - Circuit k m s     To determine ifcomponent
and relevant technical support)      o   Growth intransformation      implementation i s being reached
                                         capacity - MVA
                                                                      L o w levels may flag either
                                                                      procurement problems, poor project
                                                                      management, etc.

ComponentTwo: Completion o f        ComponentTwo :                    Component Two:
balance works o f the schemes        o   Completion o f national load To determine ifthe PDOi s being
financed by the Bank under loan          dispatch center;             reached
4603-IN for POWERGRIDSystem                                           L o w levels may flag either
Development Project- I1beyond the                                     procurement problems, poor project
loan closing date of June 30, 2006                                    management, etc.




                                                   23

                   0




 0
 0     0
 8     0  0
       0- 0
       0  0
            c\1
 vi    00   00

~




 0
 0
 0
 W
 d



 0
 0
 0-
 hl
 d

                   bo
                   C

 0
 0     0
       0    0
            0
 2     2  8
 W     vi   W




 0
 0
 9
 vi
 W




 -
 0
 0     0  0
          0
 0-    0
       2  0"
          0
 W     vi vi

                          Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                          - I11

Background

1.      The exploitable energy resources inIndia are unevenly distributed, like coal
resources are abundant inEasternregion, while hydro resources are mainly concentrated
inNorthern andNorth-Eastern regions. As aresult, some regions do nothave adequate
natural resources for fueling power plants to meet their future requirements whereas
others have abundant natural resources. The growing and geographically dispersed
power demand calls for addition o f transmission capacity through creation o f a National
Gridfor optimal utilization o f generating resources across the country for sustainable
development.The environmental considerations also call for judicious usage o f right o f
ways for transmission corridors, necessitatingdevelopment o f a transmission network
with a focus on long time planningconsideration and creation o f `transmission super
highways'. POWERGRIDi s building a national power transmission grid to connect
power poolingpoints ineach o f the five electrical regions inIndiato wheel power from
surplusregions to deficit regions and realize the goal o f optimal utilizationo f electricity
resources across the country. The national gridwill also help more effective
implementation o f the planned open access regime inthe transmission sector, improve
grid security and reliability and stabilize frequency within the acceptable range o f grid
operation.

2.      Considering the wide variation o f electrical parameters inthe various regional
grids, initially regional connections were asynchronous. POWERGRIDhas drawn up an
ambitious planto strengthen the inter-regional connectivity with highvoltage A C (400 &
765 kV) and H V D C lines by 2012. It i s envisaged that cumulative inter-regional capacity
would be enhanced to about 30,000 MW innext about 10 years, depending upon the
speed o f implementation o f power generation projects. Currently, the inter-regional
transfer capacity has been reached 9,500 MW (partially supported by the ongoing PSDP-
I1project). PSDP-I11project would support part o fthe investments for the next phase of
enhancements to the national grid. Future loans from the Bank are planned to support
furtherinvestments byPOWERGRID.

Scope of the Project

3.      The project includes the planning, design, engineering, procurement and
implementation o f schemes to support the building o f 30,000 MW o f inter-regional
power exchange capacity (inthe next 10 years). For dispersal o f power and absorption by
the beneficiaries, inter-regional links needto be established as well as transmission
network strengthening within the region need to be undertaken to preclude certain
operational limitations. POWERGRIDhas selected the least cost technical and economic
option among the various alternatives studied for each o f the investment scheme.
POWERGRIDhas proposed investment schemes comprising of "core" and "Candidate"
schemes. "Core" investments schemes are advanced inthe implementation cycle, and



                                               25

preparatory work has begunon these schemes. These schemes would start
implementation inthe first year o f the project. "Candidate" schemes have been
tentatively identified currently or may be identified inthe future and these would be
eligible for Bank financing according to the eligibility criteria noted below. No new
power generation plants would directly linkwith the proposed investments under this
loan for evacuation o f power.

A. Project Component 1- Transmission Svstem Strengthening Schemes (Base cost-
US$ 797 million)

4. Core Schemes

i)Seoni-Bina765kVsinglecircuittransmissionlink
The objective of this scheme i s to connect a major load centre inNorthern part of the state o f
Madhya Pradeshto power poolingpoint at Seoni as well as to complete the 765 kV ring
interconnecting Eastern, Western and Northern Regions as part of development of the National
grid. This will help export of surplus power from Eastern Regionto Western andNorthern
Regions and strengthen the transmission systemwithin Western Region for secure and reliable
supply ofpower. The scheme is expected to be completed duringthe year 2010. The works
included are:

        Transmission Line
           Seoni-Bina 765 kV single circuit line (initially to be operated at 400kV) - 292
        km
        Substations
           Extension o f Seoni 400/220 kV Substation
           Extension o f Bina 400/220 kV Substation

ii)Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad400kVtransmissionlink
The objective o f this scheme is to provide adequate transmission arrangements to enable
Maharashtra to draw power reliably from a pooling point inthe central part o f Western
Region, where power imported from EasternRegion and other sources will be pooled.
Wardha (Nagpur area) i s one o fthe major load centers inthe eastern part o f Maharashtra.
At present, power to Wardha is being dispersedthrough 220 kV lines, which will not be
adequate to meet the future demand. Therefore, to meet the present as well as long-term
power requirements o f the area with reliability and security, establishment o f a new
400/220 kV substation at Wardha has become necessary. Further, this substation i s
proposed to be upgraded to 765 kV level inthe future when the injection o f power at
Seoni from EasternRegionwould increase and more power transfer capacity would be
required to Maharashtra. Accordingly, interconnection o f this substation with the power
pooling station at Seoni i s proposed through a 765kV single circuit Seoni       -  Wardha line,
which will be initially operated at 400 kV. For further dispersal ofpower towards central
part of Maharashtra, establishment of 400 kV D/C Wardha-Akola and Akola-Aurangabad
lines are also needed. These lines would enable development o f a parallel transmission
corridor for deliveryo f power with reliability and security from pooling station located in



                                                26

Madhya Pradesh towards eastern/ central part o f Maharashtra. The scheme i s expected to
be completed duringthe year 2009. The works included are:

        TransmissionLines
           Seoni  - Wardha 765 kV single circuit (initially to be operated at 400 kV) - 279
        km
           Wardha - Akola 400 kV double circuit - 181km
           Akola  - Aurangabad 400 kV double circuit - 265 km
        Substations
           Extension o f 400 kV Seoni Substation
           N e w 400/220 kV Wardha Substation (2*3 15 MVA)
           Extensions o f 400/220kV Akola and Aurangabad Substations (owned by
           Maharashtra State Electricity Board)


iii)Balia-Bhiwadi2500MWHVDCTransmissionSystem
The objective ofthis scheme is to transfer power to NorthernandWestern regionsfrom Balia
poolingpoint, which wouldinturnget power from surplus EasternRegion.2500 MW HVDC
bipolebetweenBalia andBhiwadii s requiredto meetwith the power demand for the States of
Punjab, Haryana,RajasthanandDelhiinthe westernpart ofthe Northerngnd. This HVDC
bipolewould also be usedto supply powerto WesternRegionvia Agra-Gwalior 765 kV (initially
to be chargedat 400 kV level) line through400 kV doublecircuit Bhiwadi-Agraline being
established under the NorthernRegionSystem Strengtheningscheme. The scheme i s expected
to be completed duringthe year 2010. The works includedare:
        TransmissionLines
          Balia-Bhiwadi 500kV, 2500 MW H V D C Bipole line - 803 km
        Substations
           H V D C Terminal for 2500 MW at Balia along with associated 400 kV works
           H V D C Terminal for 2500 MW at Bhiwadi along with associated 400 kV works


5. CandidateSchemes
Apart from the above "core schemes", a number of "candidate" schemes have been
tentatively identified (or may be identified inthe future), and will be eligible for Bank
financing provided the project implementation plans submittedby POWERGRID
establish that these schemes meet the eligibility criteria ( see para 6 below) for financing
under this project. The Bank has reviewed the process followed by POWERGRIDin
identification and planningo f the least-cost technical and economic options for each of
the "core" schemes inthis time slice and has evolved the above mentioned eligibility
criteria for "Candidate" schemes inagreement with POWERGRID.These eligibility
criteria also include steps that POWERGRIDneed to follow for adequate social and
environmental safeguards, while planning and implementation o f these schemes. The
following i s indicative list o f candidate schemes.



                                               27

i)WesternRegionSystemStrengtheningScheme-I1


      TransmissionLines
         Seoni-Wardha, 765 kV 2ndsingle circuit (initially to be operated at 400 kV) -
         279 km
         Wardha-Parli 400 kV double circuit (Quad) - 363 km
         Raipur -Wardha 400 kV double circuit line along with 25% fixed series
         compensation - 363 km
         Bhadravati - Parli 400 kV double circuit - 380 km
         Parli (MSEB) -Parli (POWERGRID) 400kV double circuit - 7 km
         Bina- Gwalior 765 kV 2"d single circuit line (initially to be operated at 400
         kV)-235 km
         Korba-Birsinghpur 400kV double circuit line -227 km
         Birsinghpur -Damoh400kV double circuit line - 254km
         Damoh-Bhopal 400kV double circuit -234km


      New Substations

      0  Parli 400 kV Switching Substation

      0  Pune, Pandharpur and Damoh400/220 kV Substation

      SubstationExtensionWorks

      0  Extension of Seoni, Bhadravati, Wardha, Raipur, Parli Rajgarh and Gwalior
         400 kV Substation

      0  Extension o f Parli, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Karamsad, Limbdi(Chorania),
         Ranchhodpura (Vadavi), Zerda(Kansari), Bhopal, Korba, Birsinghpur 400 kV
         Substation

      0  Extensiono f Bina 400 kV Switching Station

ii)TransmissionSystemassociatedwithdispersalofpowerfromPanarasaPooling
Point

      TransmissionLines
      0  Loop-in-Loop-out o f 400kVdouble circuit from Parbati-I1to Koldam at
         Panarasapooling point
      0 400 kV double circuit Panarasapooling point -Amritsar line

      Substations
      0  New 400kV Parbati poolingpoint GIS substation
      0  Extension o f Amritsar 400/220 kV substation




                                         28

iii)SystemStrengtheninginSouthWesternPartofNorthernGrid

       TransmissionLines
      0      Kankroli - Jodhpur 400 kV single circuit line
      0      Kota-Merta 400 kV double circuit line

      Substations
       0  Extensions o f 400/220 kV Kota, Kankroli, Merta and Jodhpur substations


iv) SystemStrengtheningSchemesinEasternRegion

    Transmissionlines
    0  Durgapur-Jamshedpur 400kV Double circuit line
    0  Jamshedpur-Baripada 400kV Double circuit line
    0  Baripada-Mendhasal400kV Double circuit line
    0  Mendhasal-Berhampur 400kV Double circuit line
    0  Berhampur-Gazuwaka 400kV Double circuit line
    0  Reconductoring o f Siliguri-Purnea 400kV Double circuit line

    Substations
    0  New 400/220 kV, 2x315 MVA substation at Berhampur

v) Developmentof high capacityTransmissionSystemassociatedwith dispersalof
power from NERpoolingpoint


    0  Pooling station inNER- Loadpoint inNR/WR + 600kV, 4000MW H V D C bi
       pole.

vi) East-WestTransmission corridor

       Transmission lines
    0  Ranchi Rourkela 400kV double circuit line.
              -

    0  Rourkela - Raigarh- Raipur 400kV double circuit line.

       Substations
    0  Extensions of Ranchi, Rourkela, Raigarh and Raipur400/220kV Substations.
    0  FixedSeries Compensator + Thyristor Controlled Series Compensator on
       Raigarh-Raipur 400 kV double circuit line.

 b) North- West Transmission corridor
       Transmissionlines
         Agra - Gwalior second circuit 765kV (to be initially operated at 400 kV)
         Kankroli - Zerda 400kV double circuit



                                           29

         Substations
           Extensionso f Agra, Gwalior, Kankroli and Zerda 400/220kV Substations

Eligibility criteria for financing the schemes.

6.       Schemes from the above list or others will be eligible for financing under the
loan, based on Project Implementation Plans submitted by POWERGRID, which
establish to the satisfaction o f the Bank that an Investment Scheme for which the Bank
approval i s sought meets the eligibility criteria set out below : -


    General Criteria
     1. The Investment scheme is technically and operationally justified and has been
    formulated after taking into account other alternative investments.
    2. The Investment scheme is based on the least cost options and i s included in the
    overall least cost Investment Program o f POWERGRID, and is economically and
     financially justified.
     3. The appropriate authorities o f the Government o f India have provided required
     clearances/approvals     for   implementing the Investment       scheme,    including
     environment and forest clearances, as applicable, prior to initiation o f construction
     o f those relevant segments o f such Investment scheme for which environmental and
     forest clearances are required.
     4. The Investment scheme has adequate financing, procurement and implementation
    plans.
     5. The Investment scheme complies with POWERGRID's Environmental and
     Social Policy and Procedures and towards that end, POWERGRIDhas carried out
     an environment impact assessment andprepared an environmental mitigation plan,
     and where applicable, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan or other development
     plan for adversely affected people, all ina manner satisfactory to the Bank.
     6. TheInvestment scheme shall be for strengtheningo f the transmission system and
     inter-regional power exchange for the National Grid.
     7. Such additional criteria as may be specified by the Bank for each additional
     investment scheme, other than the Core schemes.



Technical Assistance
7.       POWERGRID's investment program includes a provisionfor consulting
services for various institutional development and technical assistance activities.
Technical assistance will be provided for enhancing inter-regional power exchange
capacities, buildinga data base o f the system and also for conducting residual life
assessment studies o f the equipment which have already served their life. The Bank will
helpPOWERGRIDinidentifyingareas requiringstrengthening to further define and



                                               30

implement its role inthe new environment o f the Electricity Act, 2003. POWERGRID
has a planfor various technical assistance activities, some o f which will be financed
under this loan, but the exact selection o f activities will depend on the availability o f
alternative grant finance, and the finance source preferred by POWERGRID and
Government o f India for any given activity

B.      ProjectComponent2 -Completion of balance works of the PSDP-IIproject
(Loan 4603-In) - (Estimated US$ 75 million)
8.      PSDP- I11will also provide the balance o f funds necessary for the completion of:
(a) national load dispatch and control center; and (b) transmission lines, substations and
other procurements, taken up under PSDP-I1loan (4603-IN) after its closing date o f June
30, 2006. This component would also fund balance payments, if any, from other schemes
under PSDP-11, which may have completed before June 30,2006 and these payments
became due after the closing date (such as contract retentions).




                                               31

                                 Annex 5: ProjectCosts
           INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               - I11


                                                  Local   Foreign     Total
ProjectCost by Component                          us$      us$         US$
                                                 million  million     Mi11ion
1.Transmission system strengthening schemes'       147      650         797
      (Core schemes)
2. Completion o f ongoing Bank financed
schemes                                                       75         75




Total Baseline Cost                                147      725         872
 Physical Contingencies                               6       64         70
 Price Contingencies                                  6       30         36
                            TotalProject Costs     159      819         978
                    Interest during construction     64        _-        64
                                   Front end fee      --       1           1

                    Total FinancingRequired        223      820        1043



 Including engineering and administration cost.




                                              32

                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
             INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                        - I11

POWERGRIDhas over the last decade acquired skills to successfully plan, design,
engineer, procure and implement large transmission schemes ( up to 765 kV AC and 500
kV HVDC systems). The recentlycompleted schemes show abetterperformance in
terms o f completing the schemes within the budgeted cost and time schedules. The
proposed schemes would be designed, engineered and implementedby POWERGRID.
Assistance o f reputed consultants (selected through international competition), would be
sought by POWERGRID for the schemes planned with larger technical complexities
than completed till date, e.g. H V D C systems with voltage level higherthan 500 kV.
Local and foreign contractors engaged through international competitive biddingwould
carry out supply, installation and erection works.

POWERGRIDtakes advance preparatory actions to ensure timely completion o fthe
schemes, e.g. usingmodem survey techniques like Geographical Information System
(GIS) surveys based on satellite imageries superimposed on Survey o f India
topographical sheets to minimize the deviation on actual routingverses planned lengtho f
the lines. The route o fthe transmission lines is selected such that the impact on forest and
other environmentally sensitive sites is restricted to a minimum. POWERGRIDhas also
started employing techniques like digital tower spotting and digitizingthe route and
tower locations to minimize time inattending to operational emergencies, ifany, when
the line is incommercial use. This system also helps to produce the detailedbill o f
quantities for each transmission line, requiredfor preparingthe technical specifications.

Duringthe project implementation, a Project Manager at a senior levelis deployed with
complete responsibility for execution o f the scheme. Inaddition, Executive Director
(ED) incharge o fthe regionhas the overall responsibility for all the projects inhis
region. The ED i s assisted by other senior officers who co-ordinates the activities with
the help o f Contracts, Engineering and Project MonitoringDepartment at Corporate
Centre. The tendering and awarding o f the main line and substation packages, following
the international competitive biddingprocedures, are dealt with from Corporate Centre
and the ancillary infrastructural packages e.g. preliminary survey work, soil investigation,
site leveling and other civil packages are being tendered and awarded from respective
site/field office. Contract packages are designed with due consideration for simplifying
project management by optimizing the number o f packages involved.

Implementation arrangements proposed would use the practices institutionalized under
the previous loans includingthe institutional oversight providedbyMinistryo fPower
(MOP)and Ministry o fFinance (MoF), which are the two key ministries for sectoral
policies for power. The Central ElectricityAuthority (CEA) i s responsible, inter alia, for
sector planning and techno-economic project oversight and the Central Electricity
Regulatory Commission (CERC) is responsible for tariff formulation and notification as
well as sectoral regulation. Both these agencies will follow their usual procedures with
respect to the project investments.



                                              33

The equipment will be procured inaccordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
POWERGRIDhas developed in-house, an advanced and cost effective IntegratedProject
Management and Control System (IPMCS), using PERT/ C P M technique, as the basic
management tool for review o f the project implementation at different levels. The system
calls for increasing details o fplanning down the levels o f hierarchy o f functions o f
engineering, contracts, site and corresponding levels o fmonitoring and control, resulting
inthe management summary report to the top management. The management summary
report highlights the project completion trends, actions beingtakedto be taken for the
attention o f the top management on exceptional basis o f critical areas. For effective
project planning and review, three-tier level o f planning and review as explained below
has been adopted inPOWERGRID.

LEVEL-I:Planning is donebythe CorporateMonitoringGroup, a Central Planning cell,
which i s inthe form o f an overall project schedule (called Master network), for the
project which forms the basis for all subsequent planningand monitoring o fthe activities.
This covers broadly all the packages o f project and indicates activities o f engineering,
contracts, manufacturing, erection and commissioning.

LEVEL-11: Planningis done package-wise andis workedout andfinalized withthe
respective contractor/vendor duringthe pre-award stage. Level-I1 networks are made
within the milestones identified inthe project Master network (L-I).

LEVEL-111: Dealswith elaborate schedules and weekly/monthly rollingplans which
are prepared for activities o f engineering, supply (as the case may be) and field activities.
These form the basis o f implementation monitoring by the various functions.

The system envisages monthly review o fthe Level I1programs with contractors on a
regular basis. Similar to the site, monthly progress report to the head office i s having
four sections i.e.
i)Projectcompletiontrend
ii)Salientachievementsforthemonth
iii)Programfornextmonth
iv) Areas needing attention o ftop management

The P M C S envisages a total project review called Project Review Meeting (PRM)
generally held every month and even more frequently depending on project requirement.
This reviewmeeting is headed byproject manger with representatives o f all functions
viz. Contracts, Engineering, Field, Personnel, Finance, Corporate Monitoring Group, etc.
The participants discuss progress, project interface problems and project completion
trends, etc.

From the discussions held during the PRM, an exception report i s generated for perusal
o f C M D and Directors, which highlights extremely critical areas requiring immediate
attention and assistance. These discussions help inidentifyingthe critical areas and
seeking decisions for speedy project implementation.

POWERGRIDhas also developed in-house and introduced Computerized Project
Management System to help plan and monitor project implementation and facilitate
comprehensive and timely progress reporting.


                                              34

           Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
             INDIA: POWER SYSTEMDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           - I11

Summary of FinancialManagementAssessment

POWERGRIDhas a financial management (FM) systemwhich is considered adequate to
account and report for the project resources and expenditures accurately.

FMStrengths,WeaknessesandMitigatingArrangements
The project has the following strengths inthe area o f financial management: (i)     an
effective budgeting, accounting and reporting system i s operational for the entity which
will be used for accounting and generatingthe requiredfinancial reports under the
project; (ii) POWERGRIDis a current borrower o fthe World Bank and has been exposed
to WB policies and procedures for almost a decade. Its FMperformance under previous
loans has been satisfactory; and (iii)  A recent highlevel review o f `corporate governance
and financial accountability' o f POWERGRID has indicated that its FMarrangements
rank adequately amongst its peers (government-owned power sector utilities). This
review has also identified some areas (internal audit framework, role o f the audit
committee) where POWERGRIDneeds to take further action inorder to reach the levels
o f its international counterparts. An action plan for improvement has been preparedby
POWERGRIDto further develop the FMcapabilities inthese areas.

Arrangements for oversightand accountability
POWERGRIDwill be the main implementing agency o fthe project andwill be
responsible for handling the FMarrangements o f the project. The implementation
arrangement for the project, which i s well institutionalized at different levels o f
hierarchies o f the organization, i s discussed indetail at Annex 6. Besides these,
POWERGRIDshall provide the fiduciary assurance to IBRDover proper and efficient
use o f Loan proceeds. The mainstream FMsystems o f POWERGRID(housed as a part
o ftheir general accounting and financial systems) will be used to generate the financial
and other progress reports under the project.

Funds Flow and Budget
The IBRD funds from this loan, like the earlier loans, will be directly borrowedby
POWERGRID,with a guarantee from GOI. Under the project, POWERGRIDwill open
a new bank account (designated special account) ina commercial Bank to receive the
initial advance under the loan, to the extent required. Funds would be then transferred
from the special account to POWERGRID'Smainrupee bank account(s) inIndia on a
reimbursement basis. Alternatively POWERGRIDcould also seek direct reimbursements
from IBRD. The designated schemes being financed under the loan will be pre-funded
byPOWERGRIDbytransferring requisite funds to the designated accounting units
(regions and site offices) responsible for makingpayments to the contractors and
vendors. Annual budgets are prepared on the basis o f departmental/ regional work plans
(operational and administrative) that are agreed with each o f the departmental head and
the management. Funds, as per approvedbudgets, are made available to various regions



                                               35

/departments/ divisions on a periodical basis. Mid year budget reviews are conducted
where inannual budgets and work plans are revised, ifrequired.

FinancialReporting& Monitoring
The reporting framework for the project will include a quarterly Financial Management
Report (FMR) prepared by POWERGRID, in an agreed format (detailed inthe PIP)
which would give details on the project expenditure incurred till date along with
projections o f funds utilization inthe next 2 quarters, distinguishingthe requirement in
respect o f the schemes, technical assistance and other project components.
POWERGRTDhas adequate FMsystems and capacity to prepare these FMRs, which will
bepreparedfor the project every quarter and forwarded to the Bank within 45 days o fthe
end o fthe quarter. FMRswill be prepared from information generated from
POWERGRTD'sFMand MIS systems. These thenwould be consolidated and a single
report will be prepared for submission to the Project management and IBRD. The
annual project financial statements, as described inthe PIP, which would be similar to the
format o f the quarterly FMRs, would also be submittedunder the project.

Finance Manual: The operational framework o f POWERGRIDhas beenwritten up inthe
various guidelines and policy documents that govern the regular day to day operations o f
the corporation. The company has recently undertaken a large task o f reviewing and
organizing these various directives, guidelines and operational procedures into Finance
manuals containing various different sections. They are currently inthe process o fbeing
revisedto capture the evolving needs o f the business and also to meet the regulatory
framework, including CERC directives as applicable to the corporation. These finance
manuals include manuals on bonds, budget, international finance, bills, cash and bank,
gratuity fund, provident fund, pension fund, internal audit, commercial and
establishment.

Accounting Policies and Procedures
POWERGRIDhas been incorporated as a company under the Companies Act, 1956 and
hence the financial reporting (Balance sheet andthe profit and loss account) i s governed
by the provisions o fthat Act. Inaccordance with the Companies Act, POWERGRID
follows accrual/commercial system of accounting and adheres to the national accounting
standards, as issuedby the Institute o f Chartered Accountants o f India and notifiedby
GoI. As POWERGRID bonds are also listed on the stock exchange, it also has to follow
the clause 49 o f the listingagreement o f SEBI regarding corporate governance.
POWERGRID i s primarily involved intransmission o fbulk energy and construction o f
large transmission and telecom projects. It has well definedaccounting policies inplace
for revenue recognition, construction accounting and treatment o f expenditure under
construction, fixed Assets, grants-in-aid, booking o f expenditures and valuation o f
inventories and investments.

Depreciation: POWERGRIDi s also required to follow the Electricity Act, 2003 which
has an overriding effect incase o f any inconsistency with the Companies Act, 1956.
Although Electricity Act (2003) has repealed the earlier Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948,
no guidance has been issued for computation o f depreciation which was available under



                                              36

the earlier Act'*. This has caused some confusion inthe power sector with different
central power sector companies engaged insame business and using similar type of
assets, applying varied rates o f depreciation (inFY 2003-04). POWERGRIDhas applied
the rates notifiedby the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission(CERC) calculated
on the basis o f `estimated useful economic life' o f the asset, which is apt under the
matching principle as tariffs have been fixed by CERC, using the same rates. This
sectoral issue i s inthe process o f beingresolved and the office o f Comptroller and
Auditor General o f India has written to the Ministryo f Power (MOP)to provide necessary
clarification to the power sector companies to ensure consistency inapproach.

Project costs: All project costs and expenditures, includingthose related to the TA
component, will be paid for and recorded inthe books o f POWERGRIDin accordance
with its accounting policies and procedures. A trial balance i s usually drawn up for each
construction project o f POWERGRID, fiom which the balance sheet o f the project is
prepared. These are then consolidated with the corporate headquarters and other
accounting units to produce POWERGRID'Sannual accounts. The trial balance for the
project i s operated only by the designated accounting units authorized to work on the
project. Each o f the projects proposed to be financed under WB loanwould have a
separate balance sheet, which will help indistinguishingprojects financed by the
proposed World Bank loan..

Staffing-Financefunction
The project's financial arrangements would be handled by the finance staff working at
corporate headquarters, regional offices and the site office along with regular finance
work. The International finance division at the corporate headquarters would coordinate
between the Finance department and the external funding agencies.             They would be
responsible for meeting the information requirement o f the external agencies and
providing the reports inthe agreed formats to the World Bank.

 FinancialManagementand other InformationSystems
 The IT architecture o f POWERGRIDi s evolving and is currentlybased on an networked
 environment with databases mainly inOracle. POWERGRIDhas been developing a
 modernized financial management and management information system to meet its
 accounting, financial and management needs which are being implemented inphases.
 Substantial progress has been made inproviding a batch-mode linkage to the 86 offices
 across India dealing with 187 accounting units for ensuring timeliness inpreparation o f
 accounts. A utility is currently usedfor converting the data from old system (COBOL) at
 the field units to the new platform (Oracle based) on a periodical basis (fortnightly)
 which i s then uploaded inthe central server at the HQthrough the regional links.
 Requisite trainings have beenprovided to the accounting and IT officials at site offices.
 Itis expected that fullmigration to the new systemwould take place bythe year end.
 Linkages within POWERGRID are expected to be boosted by usage o f their own optical
 fibre network. Inaddition, the corporation is also inthe process o freadying itselffor
 implementingan ERPpackage across the organization, which would (i)         integrate the
 various application packages into a consolidated single software platform, (ii) in
                                                                                  help

 12Under section 43 A and 75 of the ElectricitySupplyAct, 1948.


                                                      37

removing any duplication o f work, data input and redundancies and (iii)     augment an IT
driven internal control atmosphere. As POWERGRID's accounting system is
computerized, the quarterly accounts are finalized by the next following month.
POWERGRIDhas also implemented IntegratedProject Management and Control System
(IPMCS) for review o f the schemes under progress to ensure development &
implementation o f schemes ina timely and effective manner. More details are provided
inAnnex 6. Existence of strongMIS andbudgetary control activities enhance the
efficiency o f the internal financial reporting activities o f POWERGRID.

Audit Arrangements
POWERGRID's statutory auditor i s appointed by the Comptroller & Auditor General of
India(CAG) under Section 619 o fthe Companies Act, 1956. Currently three firms have
been appointed as joint statutory auditors o f POWERGRID for 2004/5 that have also
been allocated specific responsibilities for various regions (total 7 inall) o f the company.
The auditor i s selected by C A G out o f a data base o fpre-qualified audit firms, which is
maintained by the Office of C A G for auditing the corporatized Public sector undertakings
(PSU). An auditor is usually appointed for a period o f three to five years and is rotated
thereafter as per the directives o f CAG. Inaddition, the C A G also conducts a
supplementary/test audit.

POWERGRIDhas preferred13 to submit project audit report along with financial
statements, which i s based on existing systems that operate within the entity. It is
proposed that the project(includingall components) will be audited, under agreed
terms o f reference, by an independent firm o f chartered accountants acceptable to the
Bank (which may include the statutory auditors) selected from CAGpre-qualified list.
The annual audit report would be accompaniedby a project financial statement which
would separately identify each component under the project, its progress and the funding
sources for each o f the components. Thus the following audit reports will be monitored
inAudit Reports Compliance System (ARCS):

Agency              Audit Report                          Audited by                   DueDate

POWERGRID           AnnualEntityauditreportas             StatutoryAuditors            30th
                    requiredunderthe Companies Act        appointedby CAG              September

POWERGRID           Projectauditincludingaudit of         An independent firm of       30th
                    specialAccount                        CharteredAccountants         September




           ~




l3The WorldBankpresentedthe optionsavailable to POWERGRIDto submit entity audit with
adequate disclosures inlieuofthe project audit.However,POWERGRIDhas expressedits
preference inchoosingthe audit ofthe project financialstatements, as it has several financiers,
bothdomestic and externaland such disclosures inrespectof all fundings will make the entity
auditreportunwieldy.


                                               38

Internalcontrol& Corporate Governance
POWERGRID'S internal control framework has improved considerably over the
previous years and i s in the process o f being upgraded through several measures like IT
consolidation and integration, finalization o f finance manuals, strengthening o f internal
audit and enlarging the scope o f the audit committee.            Although, good corporate
governance codes in India emphasize the role o f independent directors, POWERGRID,
being a PSU, is still awaiting GoI's actions inthis regard since 2002. To overcome this
problem and to introduce an element o f non-executive oversight in the governance
arrangement, POWERGRID has evolved             a structure o f Committees o f Independent
Eminent persons relating to the following matters (i)   Financial Management (see Annex
lS),  (ii)External Agencies      - Review o f observations, (iii)Environment & Social
Safeguards and (iv) Research & development. These committees report directly to the
Chairman and Managing Director o f the Corporation.            The Financial Management
committee has met thrice since its constitution in October, 2003 and it has considered
matters involving fund raising, investment priorities and other financial management
matters.   Audit Committee: The internal control framework o f POWERGRID also
includes an audit committee, as required for every company incorporated under the
Companies Act, 1956. The scope o f the audit committee, per the requirement o f the
Companies Act includes discussing and making recommendations on any matter relating
to financial management, including the audit report. As a part o f recommendation
through a high level review conducted recently, POWERGRIDi s currently inthe process
o f evaluating and improving the functionalities o f the audit committee to further improve
the corporate governance inthe corporation.

Internal audit department: POWERGRIDhas a full fledged Internal Audit Department
(IAD) at the HeadOffice directly reporting to Director (Finance). IADtakes up
operational/ financial audit o f head office departments and Branch offices and contracts
several private firms o f private chartered accountants to fulfill its mandate. The mandate
o f the IADincludes ensuring that operations are carried out inaccordance with the
policies and procedures laid down and also making suggestions for streamlining the
operations and making suitable modifications inthe procedures. POWERGRIDis
currently inthe process o f further strengthening the department by adopting a risk based
approach, realigning the structure and revisingthe scope o f the private firms. Under the
corporate governance framework, the audit sub-committee o f the board oversees the
functionalities of the IAD. The internal audit department would audit working o f all the
Regions (including IBRD financed project) and its report would be available to the
IBRD,onrequest.

DisbursementArrangements
Disbursements would be initially made in the traditional system (replenishment and
reimbursement with full documentation and against statement o f expenditure) with an
option o f converting to report based disbursement. Disbursement will be made from the
loadcredit on the basis o f documentation for all the contracts that are agreed to be prior
reviewed by IBRD (see Annex 7 on procurement arrangements).                       Supporting
documentation, including completion reports, certificates and other documentation, will



                                              39

be retained by POWERGRID and made available to the Bank during project supervision.
IBRDproject fundswill flow to POWERGRID,with a guarantee from GOI.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount o f USD 40 million will be
available under the project, for financing eligible activities procured under agreed
guidelines, for the project, in respect of expenditures incurred after December 1, 2005
and before the loan signing.
Special Account: A special account advance facility up to a maximum amount o f USD20
million will be available to POWERGRIDunder the proposed loan.

Impact of Procurement arrangements
The procurement under the project would largely be centralized at corporate headquarters
and would require the finance department to closely liaise with them.

ImplementationReview Plan
POWERGRIDhas been exposed to WB projects for almost a decade andits FM
performance has been satisfactory. Hence, it is expected that the project would not
require a highdegree o f supervision. The focus during the review missions will be on
implementation o f the action plan for improvingF M .




                                            40

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
            INDIA: POWER SYSTEMDEVELOPMENT PROJECT- I11

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated M a y 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general
description o f various items under different expenditure category is described below. For
each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the needfor prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project
team and indicated inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurementof Works: There are no works to be procuredunder the project

Procurementof Goods: This will be a time slice loanand the projects which meet the
eligibility criteria o f the Bank will be proposedby POWERGRIDunder the loan .The
transmission systemprojects presently being considered by POWERGRID are,           Seoni-
Wardha- Akola- Aurangabad Transmission system, "Ballia- Bhiwadi 2500 MW H V D C
Bipole along with Bipole Stations at Balia and Bhiwadi", and "Seoni- Bina 765 kV
Transmission Lines". Goods to be procuredunder "Supply Contracts" for this project
would include Conductor and Insulators for transmission lines o f the Projects agreed to
be funded under the Loan. These would be procured in20 packages. The value o f
contract packages for Goods to be procured on "Supply" contract basis will range from
USD 1millionto USD 14 million.

Further Goods and equipment will also beprocuredunder "Supply and Install" contracts
for Transmission systems to be constructed under the projects. Such Goods and
Equipmentwill beprocured in 15 packages. The value o f contract packages for Goods to
be procured on "Supply and Install" contract basis will range from U S D 2 millionto U S D
383 million.

Procurement o f Goods under "Supply" contracts and "Supply and Install" contracts
following I C B procedures o f the Bank will be done by using the Bank's Standard
BiddingDocuments (SBD) as a base and as agreed with the Bank. The Bank's SBD
 {Goods} will be used as a base for all procurement o f Goods following ICB procedures
and the Biddingdocuments agreed with the Bank's New DelhiOffice will be used .
Similarly, the Bank's SBD for "Supply and Installation o f Plant and Equipment" will be
used as a base for all procurement under "Supply and Install" contracts and will be as
agreed with the Bank's New Delhi Office.




                                               41

Other ProcurementProcedures:

1.      National Competitive Bidding: Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent per contract maybe procured under contracts awarded on the basis ofNational
Competitive Biddingprocedures as per paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 o f the Procurement
Guidelinesand the additional provisions agreed between the Borrowerand the Bank in
writing from time to time.

2.      Direct Contracting: Goods which meet the requirements set forth inparagraph 3.6
o f the Procurement Guidelines may be procured on the basis o f Direct Contracting in
accordance with provisions o fparagraph 3.6 and 3.7 o f the Procurement Guidelines.

Inaddition, spillover expenditure from the existingloan [PSDP 11,LoanNo. 4603-IN1,
against contracts already awarded under that Loan, for an amount o f about USD 75
millionwill be made under the project.

Selection of Consultants: The general content o fthe consultant services to beretained
under the project has beenidentified, but specific consultancy assignment will be
developed during implementation. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national
consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposal Document will be used as a base
for all procurement o f Consultancy services to be procured under the Project.

Particular Methodsof Procurementof ConsultantServices

Quality- and Cost-based Selection: Consultant Services may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis o f Quality- and Cost-based Selection inaccordance with the
provisions o f Section I1o f the Consultant Guidelines

Other Procedures

1,      Quality-based Selection: Services under Part A.3 o f the Project which meet the
requirements set forth inparagraph 3.2 o f the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis o f Quality-based Selection inaccordance with the
provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

2.      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications: Services under Part A.3 o f the
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8
o f the Consultant Guidelines.

3.      Single Source Selection: Services for tasks incircumstances which meet the
requirements o f paragraph 3.9 and 3.10 o f the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured inaccordance with the
provisions o fparagraphs 3.9 through 3.13 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                             42

4.       Individual Consultants: Services for assignments that meet the requirements set
forth inparagraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines may be procuredunder contracts
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.2
and 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described inparagraph 5.4
of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on
a sole source basis.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by POWERGRID. POWERGRIDhas earlier
implemented many projects with the World Bank funds, and Second Powergrid System
Development project (Loan No. 4306-IN) is still under implementation. POWERGRID
have enough expertise and staff to handle procurement following the World Bank
Guidelines.

An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project has been carried out by the procurement specialist of the Bank
duringpreparationo fthe project. The assessmentrevealedthat the procurement activities
are carried out by the following departments o f POWERGRID:

(i)      Contract Services - Headedby Executive Director who is directly assisted by
General Manager & Additional General Managers has about 35 Executives. Further
divided into different groups like Planning & Systems Group (which looks after the core
function) and separate groups for each region, LD&C [ Load Dispatch and
Communication], Telecom, H V D C [HighVoltage Direct Current] & D M S [ Distribution
Management System] each group having three to four Executives depending upon the
workload o f each group. Overall coordination and responsibility lie with Contracts Dept.

(ii) IndentingDepartments-Engineering,Telecom,LD&C andDMSarethe
indentingdepts. which are headed bythe respective Executive Directors anddirectly
assisted by General Managers & Additional General Managers. Engineering Department
i s further divided into various groups like Transmission Line Group, Sub-station Group,
H V D C Group, System Engineering and Feasibility Group, Civil Engineering Group &
Cost EngineeringGroup. There are about 170Executives inthese groups. The technical
specification i s prepared by the respective indentingdepartment.

(iii) FinanceDepartment-TheconcurrencegroupofFinanceDept.helpsContracts
Dept.duringopening ofbids, evaluation o fbids and award o f contract. The evaluation
report and award letter are scrutinized and vetted by the concurrence group. There are 56
Executives inFinance, out o f which, six Executives including General Manager look
after the function o f Finance Concurrence.

(iv)     Quality Assurance & Inspection Dept. - [QA&I] Dept. headedby General
Manager who is reporting to ED (Engg.) i s responsible for tying up all quality and
inspection aspects that would have to be adhered to duringthe execution of the contract.
12Executives look after the function o f QA & IDept.



                                              43

(v)     Corporate Monitoring Group- [CMGI- headed by Executive Director is
responsible for tying up the work completion schedule with the successful bidder as per
the requirement o f the project. There are about 10 Executives inC M G including
Executive Director.

The process generally followed byPOWERGRID from the period between release o f IFB
up to the award o f contracts is as under:

        Sale of biddocuments i s done by Contract Services. The period o f sale i s
        generally 45 days for domestic biddingand varies from 60 to 90 days depending
        on the source o f funding, namely, World Bank, ADB, JBIC etc.
        BidOpeningCommittee (at the levelo fManager) for opening o fbids and Tender
        Committee for evaluation o fbids and recommendation for award are nominated
        by the respective heads o f Contract Services, Engineering and Finance Dept. The
        level of Tender Committee depends on the level o f the competent authority
        entitled for approval o f award for a particular package as per the Delegation o f
        Powers o f POWERGRID.
        The Bid Evaluation schedule i s prepared by Contract Services based on the
        validity o f bids and requirement o f the project. The bidvalidity is generally 150
        days for supply-cum-installation packages and 120 days for supply packages
        under single stage single envelope biddingprocedure. Incase o f two stage
        biddingprocedure o fthe WorldBank, the bidvalidity for 1st stage and 2"d stage is
         180 days and 90 days respectively.
        IncasePre-bid Conference isnecessary, Contract Services convene the same in
        association with Engineeringand Finance Departments. Pre-bid Conference i s
        generally resorted to incase o f complicated packages or packages for which
        procurement is beingdone for the first time.
        Necessary amendments to biddingdocuments based on Pre-bid Conference or any
        modifications are issued by Contract Services inconsultation with Engineering &
        Finance Departments.

        Bids are openedby the BidOpening Committee comprising representatives of
        Contract Services, Finance & Engineering departments inthe presence o f
        representatives o f the bidders who choose to attend the same.

The activities after opening o fbids commence with verification o fbid security and
decision regarding cases o f late bid receipts etc. which is done by Contract Services in
association with Engineering and Finance departments. The preliminary examination o f
bids is carried out with respect to the provisions inthe biddingdocuments which include
arithmetical correction, scope verification o f JV agreement (ifapplicable), short listing o f
biddersetc. Generally, three or four bidders are short listedbased on the quoted prices.
Thereafter, detailed evaluation i s carried out by the Tender Committee where the member
from Contract Services acts as the Convener o f the meeting. The detailed evaluation in
case o f domestic/ADB funded packages comprises o f (i)     verification o f Qualification



                                               44

Requirements, (ii)  commercial evaluation, (iii) Technical Evaluation, (iv) verification o f
capability and capacity and (v) award recommendation. Incase o f World Bank funded
packages, detailed evaluation comprises o f (i)  Commercial Evaluation, (ii)  Technical
Evaluation, (iii) verification o f Qualifying Requirement o f technically and commercially
responsive lowest evaluated bidder, (iv) verification o f capability and capacity and (v)
Award Recommendation.

Incasethe procurement ofsame equipment/material is divided into morethan one
package, the evaluation is carried out package wise. However, multi-package rebates
offered by the bidder, ifany, are considered for evaluation. POWERGRIDevaluates and
compares bids on the basis o f a bidpackage or combination o f bidpackages or as a total
o f all bidpackages, ina manner most advantageous to POWERGRID and awards a
contract(s) to one or more bidders on the basis o f least evaluated price.

After finalization o fthe Evaluation Reportby Tender Committee, the evaluationreport is
putup for approval o fcompetent authority. As per the existing Delegation o fPowers,
following i s the authority competent to approve award recommendations, depending
upon the recommended award price (under open tendering):

Deputy Manager                   : up to Rs. 500,000
Manager                          : up to Rs. 1.0million
Chief Manager                    : up to Rs. 2.5 million
Deputy General Manager           : upto Rs. 7.5 million
General Manager                  : up to Rs. 15 million
Executive Director               : up to Rs. 50 million
C M D                            : up to Rs. 1OOmillion
Sub-committee of Board           : Rs. 100millionto 200 million
Board o f Directors              : Rs. 200 millionand above

Once the award recommendations are approvedby competent authority, the evaluation
report is forwarded to the funding agency (ifrequired asper the guidelines/loan
agreement of funding agency) for their concurrence by Contract Services through
Corporate Planning Dept.

After approval o f the evaluation report by competent authorityheceipt o f concurrence
from the funding agency as the case may be the recommended bidder is called for post-
bid discussion to successfully resolve the technical and commercial issues inhisbidvis-
&vis the biddocuments. This meeting i s convenedby Contract Services inassociation
with the Tender Committee.

The work schedule for completion of the Contract Package/Project i s tied-up with the
bidderby Contract Services inassociationwith Corporate Monitoring Group inline with
theMasterNetwork for the project.




                                              45

After successfulresolutiono f all technical and commercial issues and finalization o f
work schedule, the Tender Committee obtains necessary approval o f competent authority
for placement o f award on the recommendedbidder.

Contract Services prepares the draft Letter o f Awardcontract Agreement and
forwards the same to Engineering, Finance and QA&Ifor their vetting.

After vetting o f the draft LOA by Engineering, Finance & QA&I,the final Letter o f
Awardcontract Agreement i s issued to the bidder.

The overall project risk for procurement is Moderate.

C.      Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a detailed Procurement Plan for procurement to be
carried out under the Project for first 18 months and also the consolidated procurement
plan for the complete project giving estimated value, method o fprocurement and the year
o fprocurement, which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has
been agreed betweenthe Borrower andthe Project Team on and i s available at New
Delhi office o f the Bank It will also be available inthe Project's database and inthe
Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D.      Advance Prcourement

Retroactive financing up to an amount o f US$ 40 million will be available under the
project, for financing expenditures incurred after December 1, 2005 and before the Loan
signingto procure eligible activities procured under agreed guidelines.

E. Frequency of Procurement Review Missions

Inaddition to theprior reviewto be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Agency indicates the requirement o f two review
missions annually, includingvisits to the field to carry out post review o f procurement
actions.




                                             46

        m l n   m      l ?
             0m
        0  0    0 m0 m0  0




  .


  al




c
0




*
0
m
U
L

u
2

;d
m z

I   3

                        3 3 '

3 3 - - 1 3 3 -  I N    3 1  3
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 -    0 0  0




              2
              N

-
8  48 -  i1 -;
e i e i a




                  .i
                   6>e
                  Y
                   0
                   rn
                   a
                   0
                  Y
                  Y0
                  b"
                   Q)




                  -`5
                   2
                  Pe,

                  7




                   !?J
                   0
                  i
                   rn
                  .C
                  5
                   8
                  -5
                   El
                   3

                  Yrn
                   0
                  bcd


                   0

                  c,
                   8
                   0
                 i3
                  d

2.  ConsultingServices.

    (a) The list o f consultancy services to be procured will be finalized during
    implementation o f the project.
    (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost USD 200,000 and above per contract and
    Single Source selection o f consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost U S D
    100,000 and above will be subject to prior review by the Bank. . Inaddition, the record o f
    justification referred to inparagraph 5 o f Appendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines for
    each contract for the employment o f individual consultants estimatedto cost the
    equivalent ofU S D 50,000 or more shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. All
    other consultancy contracts shall be subject to the post review




                                              51

                                Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                  INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         - I11


The Project i s beingprocessed as a time-slice operation with flexibility to finance
POWERGRID'Sinvestment priorities duringthe identifiedtime period. Proposed schemes have
been classified as `Core' schemes and `Candidate' schemes, based on their degree o f
advancement inthe implementation cycle. Since each scheme i s a stand-alone project with its
own technical parameters, financing, implementation arrangements etc, it is considered
appropriate to conduct financial and economic analysis on a scheme-wise basis. Analysis for the
Core schemes has already been conducted, whereas for the Candidate schemes it would be done
usingthe same methodology, as they advance inthe implementation cycle and are reclassified as
Core schemes. A financial analysis o f the entire investmentprogram for POWERGRIDfollows
at the end o f the annex.
1. Economic and FinancialAppraisal of Core Schemes
a. Economic Appraisal The economic appraisal o f core schemes has been done by calculating
the Economic Rate o fReturn (ERR) for each o f them and comparing with the opportunity cost o f
capital. The opportunity cost o f capital is taken as 12%, as specified inthe official memorandum
o f the India Country Director on the Exchange Rates and Price Contingencies for Project
Analysis, dated February 01, 2005.
Since all schemes under the PSDP-I11loan are system strengthening schemes, benefits from them
have been calculated as the value o f the reduction insystem losses. Based o n load flow studies,
POWERGRID has estimated the total reduction intransmission losses that would accrue from all
the three core schemes to be about 438 MW under peak load conditions. To obtain the average
loss reduction, a loss load factor14 o f 0.53 i s applied to the loss reduction under peak load
conditions. Thus the physical benefit from the schemes is an energy saving o f 2033 million
kWhs per year.
For valuing these (physical) benefits, an economic pricelvalue o f electricity has been derived
based on the opportunity cost o f energy saved. Two different estimates o fthe value o f electricity
for the economy are available - the first i s the cost o f unscheduled power interchanges under the
Availability Based Tariff (ABT) regime, and the second is the average cost o f alternate supply
fromrecent medium sizedthermal generation plants. Cost o funscheduledpower interchanges
underthe ABT regimehas been calculatedby Central Electricity Regulatory Commission
(CERC) as Rs.5.70 I kWhbased on cost o f supply from local diesel generation. On the other
hand, the average cost o f alternate supply from recent thermal generation plants15was found to
be Rs. 3.62 I kWh.
The base case i s defined as the scenario wherein the scheme proceeds as per schedule, it is
completed within the cost estimates and foreign exchange rate varies inaccordance with the


l4 Loss Load Factor i s defined as the ratio o f actual losses over a period to the losses obtained under peak loading
conditions for the entire period. It i s used to convert peak energy losses into average energy losses. It i s calculated
usingthe following empirical formula : Loss Load Factor = 0.2 x Load Factor + 0.8 x (Load Factor)2.
I 5Average Cost o f power generation for two recently commissioned gas based thermal power plants has been
considered here. These are  - Kawas-I (Rs.3.4036 / unit) and Gandhar-I (Rs.3.8484 / unit).


                                                             52

Bank projection for currency exchange rate. By valuing the energy saved ineach scheme at the
cost o f thermal generation (the lower o f the two valuations), the ERR inthe base case is found to
vary between 14.83% and 15.96% for the Core Schemes, higher than the opportunity cost o f
capital o f 12%.
The key assumptions underlying the economic analysis, pertaining to Cost Escalation,
Implementation Delay and Changes inForeign Exchange rate have been varied inthe sensitivity
analysis. Separate scenarios involving implementation delay o f 2 years, cost escalation o f 10%
and change in foreign exchange rate o f 10% yielded ERRs higher than the benchmark
opportunity cost o f capital o f 12%. Inthe extreme scenario where all these adversities are
coincident, the ERRwas a lower 10.46% to 11.06%. However, inview o f POWERGRTD's track
record inproject implementation and the fact that procurement processes for the schemes have

the scenario analysis is givenbelow.
already commenced, such an extreme16scenario i s highly improbable. A summary o f the results o f




                                                                               Economic Rate of Return
       Scenario                Scenario Description                  Balia Bhiwadi Seoni Bina     Seoni Wardha
          A     BaseCase                                                    14.83%        15.02%         15.96%
          B     Cost Escalation by 10%                                      13.55%        13.73%         14.53%
          C     Delay of 2 Years                                            12.35%        12.49%         13.11%
          D     Cost Escalation by 20%, Delay of 2 years                    10.46%        10.59%         11.06%

The above analysis is based on the prevailing condition inIndiathat o f "excess demand", where
energy saved would be consumed and should therefore be valued at the marginal cost o f
generation. Inan alternate scenario, where there i s no excess demand for electricity, the energy
savings should be valued at the cost o f fuel saved by being able to back-down generation. The
base case ERRs o f the schemes for such a scenario are between 8.43% and 8.69%, lower than the
opportunity cost o f capital o f 12%. However, this scenario i s conservative since it:

    0    considers coal based rather than diesel based generation as the marginal plant that would
         be backed-down;

    0    ignores the prevailing situation o f excess demand that i s likely to continue for the
         foreseeable future; and

    0    ignores any "carbon benefit" accruing from the reduction ingeneration.
Consequently, while this scenario does need to be considered, the likelihood is low.l7
b. Financial Appraisal
The two alternatives indices o f Internal Rate o f Returnon Equity (ROE)and Financial Internal
Rate o f Return (FIRR) were considered for financial appraisal o f the core schemes. The FIRR is
the internal rate of return for the scheme, benchmarked against a Weighted Average Cost o f
Capital (WACC), an average o f the cost o f debt and cost of equity. On the other hand, ROEo f the


l6Refer FileNote on "POWERGRID's Investment Hurdle Rate and Scenario Information" for further details on the
scenarios.
l7Further discussion of the impact of the alternative scenario i s provided inthe File Note referred above.


                                                         53

scheme i s benchmarked against the cost o f equity for POWERGRID.Inthe prevalent regulatory
regime, an annual return on equity o f 14% i s provided by the regulator duringthe years when the
scheme i s operational. However, the cost o f debt i s a pass through intariff. As a result, the
financial performance o f the scheme, or that o f POWERGRID, remains unaffected by the cost o f
debt. Therefore, it was decidedto use ROEas the index for financial appraisal o f schemes.
The cost o f equity for POWERGRIDhas beenestimated, based on the Capital Asset Pricing
Model (CAPM), to lie between 12% and 14%.'* Based on the cash flows for investors, the return
on equity for the core schemes inthe base case scenario lies between 12.37% and 13.36%, which
i s within the estimated range. An internal rate o f return on equity slightly lower than the
regulated return on equity o f 14%i s expected since the regulated ROEi s not provided for the
construction period.


                                               Table-2
                               Summary o f Scenario Analysis for ROE




A scenario analysis was carried out to understandthe impact o f cost escalations, implementation
delays, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and changes inregulated rate o f RoE.19 A summary o f
the scenario analysis is given inTable-2. As expected ina regulated environment, where Cost
Escalations and Foreign Exchange Rate Variations are passed through inthe tariffs, no impact on
the ROEis experienced. The schemes are, unsurprisingly, affected adversely inthe case o f a
reductioninregulatedrate o freturnon equity and implementation delays. Inthe worst case
scenario, wherein an implementation delay o f 2 years and cost escalation by 10%are coincident,
the ROEi s found to be between 10.19% and 10.65%. As mentioned earlier, this i s a highly
unlikely scenario, inview o fPOWERGRID's good record inproject implementation.
One positive scenario that i s not modeled above i s the provision o f the additional 1%ROE
incentive payment for availability. POWERGRIDhas been receiving this payment on previous
schemes andwould clearly benefit ifthe proposed schemes meet their availability targets.

2. Entity LevelFinancial Analysis
POWERGRID operates ina regulated sector with a ROEprovided by CERC. As a result they
have consistently been a profit-making entity. Eventhough the regulated return on equity on
schemes allowed to POWERGRIDhas been reduced from 16% to 14% (since 2003), their
financial condition has steadily improved over the last few years, and the current financial

''Refer                       ~




         File Note on "POWERGRID's Investment Hurdle Rate and Scenario Information" for details on h o w this
estimate was derived.
l 9Refer File Note on "POWERGRIDSInvestment Hurdle Rate and Scenario Information" for a description o f the
detailed scenarios.


                                                   54

perfonnance is generally satisfactory. Profitability during2004-05 measured by ROE(after Tax)
stood at 8.7%. This is lower than the regulatedreturn owing to the massive expansion program
being undertaken by POWERGRID and the fact that a ROEi s only earned once the investments
become operational. The ROEi s likely to remain at these levels for the next two years, after
which it would gradually increase to between 14%-16% per annum. The increase inROEbeyond
the regulatedreturn o f 14% is mainly on account o f availability incentives and returns from
unregulated businesses such as telecom. Financial projections (summary tables at the end o f the
Annex) demonstrate that, subject to tariff adjustments inline with CERC's current regulatory
framework, POWERGRID's financial performance would continue to remain satisfactory.
POWERGRID's main financial risk i s the risk o f non-payment by off-taking state utilities. To
mitigate the risk and securitize past debts, Government o f Indiahas signed tripartite agreements
(TPAs) with State Governments and Reserve Bank o f India                 Under the TPAs, tax free
bonds carrying interest o f 8.5% were issued by RBIfor all outstanding dues from the state
utilities as o f September 30,2001. The bonds have a moratorium o f five years, and a ten year
repayment thereafter intwenty installments. Interest on bonds i s to be paid by RBIdirectly. The
bonds are tradable inthe secondary market subject to a maximum o f 10% o f the bonds every
year and prior permission o f RBIon each occasion. With regard to ensuring the payment o f
current monthly bills by states, the agreement provides incentives for prompt payment. Ifsuch
payment is not forthcoming, the power sector entities are expected to reduce the power supplied
to the defaulter and on continued non-payment, they can approach Ministry of Finance for direct
payment by RBIfrom central appropriation o f the concerned state. The provisions o f TPA
regarding recovery o f post-securitization dues have so far beeninvoked inthe case o f five states,
and inthree cases GoUMoF has made the payment, albeit by installments.
As aresult o fthis securitization scheme, payment discipline has substantially improvedandhas
beenmaintained over the last 2 years. POWERGRID's accounts receivable stand at 2.02 months
o f sales as o f August, 2005, and collections are close to 98%. As explained above, inthe event
o f default POWERGRIDnow has the comfort that, after all other avenues o f collection
enforcement have been exhausted, it can apply to the Government o f India for release o f due
amounts directly by GoUMoF.
The three proposed financial covenants (accounts receivable o f less than three months, debt to
equity ratio o f 20:80 and self financing ratio o f at least 20%) are the same as covenants for
POWERGRID's existing loan except that, following improvements incollections, noted above,
the accounts receivable covenant is now three months o f sales rather than the four months used
underPSDP 11. Meeting a self financing ratio o f 20% will be more o f a challenge to
POWERGRIDinthe current situation o fhuge growth ininvestments, than it was inPSDP-11,
particularly duringthe first three years of the project, but still appears achievable.

KeyAssumptions for FinancialProjections
The key assumptions onwhich the financial projections are based are given below. Further
details are available inthe Project Implementation Plan.




*'BipartiteAgreements(BPAs)  havebeensignedbetweenthe GovernmentofIndiaandPOWERGRIDfor the
UnionTerritories.The termTPAs is usedhere to refer to bothTPAs andBPAscollectively.


                                                     55

0 Operating Revenues taken from audited accounts till 2004-05, and for subsequent
  years calculated based on commissioning schedule o f schemes.
0 System availability o f 98.5% i s assumed for calculating Incentive.
e Return on Equitytaken as 14%, inaccordance with the prevailing Tariff Regulations.
  (Note that ROEExceeds regulated return inlater years as income from unregulated
  business increases.)
e Other Income includes Consultancy Income, Reimbursement o f R L D C expenditure,
  Lease Income from state sector U L D C assets and Interest Income from State
  Electricity Board Bonds.
e Income from Transmission Joint Venture is calculated based on a 10%dividend on
  equity investment, with 49% POWERGRIDequity inTala Joint Venture, and 26% in
  all subsequent Joint Ventures.
e An increase o f 20% inEmployees remuneration duringthe year 2007-08 i s
  considered on account o f the usual five-yearly Wage Revision.
0 Transmission and Administrative Expensesare projected to escalate at the same rate
  as the Transmission Charges (excluding advance against depreciation).
0 A dividend o f 30 % o fPAT is considered from 2005-06 onwards.
0 Income Tax i s considered at 7.5%, with a surcharge o f 2.5% and Cess o f 2%.
e For future schemes, where loans are not contracted, the financing n o m s adopted are
  - Debt-Equityo f 70:30, with Loans from different sources inthe ratio o fMultilateral
  - 20%, ECB - 10% and Domestic Loans - 70%.
0 Redemption o f Bonds under the Securitization Scheme is considered at 10% per year
  from 2006-07 onwards.
e Revenue realization is considered at 95% o f billing, with the balance assumed to be
  realized after two years.




                                        56

W O N
8.R. 8        F:   w w
                   r e
                   m b.
7 -




m o m
m - *     m
'4 -.IC   t
r r       -



R 8 C :   m
          m
m. m w    ".
r         r




m o m
gEW       mW  2     m m
                    PIC
          0.        m ;.
          r




 m m -
 %. 6 8    m
           -  0     m w
              P
           r        2 2
 r                    N.




           IC
           m




 F:%S      r
           0
 m m m




           r P       m o
                     N m
           0
           IC        m a.
                        r




            IC
            2




            7   r    - 0
            IC
            m    m   - N".
                        r




            N
            M



  m m m          -                 5VIc-
  8 % :     N
            M      b m w
                 r * N O
                     m m           VI
                                   E-
                                   E
                                   L




                              i

                                    Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                    INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - I11


StrategicContext

1.       POWERGRID's scope o f activities have already been described at Annexure-I. Inorder to
achieve its goal for sustainable development inits business, POWERGRID had developed, and agreed
with the Bank, a corporate Environmentaland Social Poiicy and Procedures (ESPP) in 1998. The
ESPP outlines POWERGRID's approach and commitment to deal with the environmental and social
issues relating to its transmission schemes and lays out management procedures to address them. The
ESPP provides POWERGRID with a framework for identification, assessment and management o f
environmental and social concerns at both organizational as well as field levels. The ESPP i s
implemented inall POWERGRID implemented schemes, regardless o f funding source, a step beyond
the `compliance with the minimumregulatory requirement'. POWERGRIDwill mainstream its ESPP
requirements into the integrated management system, the effectiveness o f which will be audited
regularly by an independentand internationally accredited thirdparty.

2.       As part o f PSDP I11preparation, the modificatiodupdationo fESPP (98) was undertaken
taking into account the experience gained and lessons learnt by POWERGRID duringthe last six years
o f its implementation, including the experience o f building seventy five grid substations. The updated
ESPP 2005 has taken into account the results o f the desk research on legal and institutional
fiamework, analysis o f priority issues (gap analysis) inthe power transmission sector and wide
ranging discussions includingnational and regional consultations. Further, in order to achieve
international benchmarking and best practices inmanaging environmental and social issues,
POWERGRID constituted an expert committee comprising o f eminent persons inthe field o f
environmental and social issues including Bank's nominated specialist. The committee also reviewed
the updated ESPP 05 and will continue to provide strategic guidance and oversee effectiveness o f
implementation o f environment and social mitigation measures. POWERGRIDwill ensure
implementation o f ESPP 2005 inits entirety, through its project offices, contractors and others
associated with its operations and activities for all the schemes implemented by the Corporation..

3.       Key features of ESPP

         a. Environment and Social Policy Statement - "commitment to the goal of sustainable
             development through conservation o f natural resources and involvement o f stakeholders,
             continually improving its management system, accessing specialist knowledge for
             management o f significant environmental and social issues and introducingnew state o f the
             art and internationally proven technologies while strictly following the basic principles o f
             Avoidance, Minimization and Mitigation".

         b. Route selection: When identifyingthe transmission system, apreliminary route selection is
             done usingtools such as the Forest Atlas and Survey o f India maps, which will be now
             supplementedusingmodem techniques like aerial photographs, GIS/GPS for finalization
             o f route. The environment and social criteria used for route selection would include -
             avoiding humanrehabilitation; avoiding monument o f cultural or historical importance;
             avoiding threat to any community with special reference to tribal; avoiding affect on any
             public utility services like playgrounds, schools, other establishments etc.; and avoiding
             any sanctuaries, nationalpark, biosphere, eco-sensitive zones etc. Also, POWERGRID will
             continue to adopt innovative tower designs like multi-circuit and very tall towers to protect



                                                     58

   wildlife, trees inecologically sensitive areas, reduce the number o f trees cut down for
   stringingand impact on flora and fauna and allow cultivationunderthe towers.

c. Stringing: POWERGRID will continue to use manual stringing inthick forests and on
   slopes, where ever possible, to minimize damage to the environment. However, some
   lopping of canopy and clearing o f ground vegetation i s inevitable while stinging, which
   will be mitigatedeither by allowing regenerationor byplanting dwarftrees along the
   ROW, except inone strip of 3to7 meters width (as the case may be depending uponthe
   design o f the lines), which i s kept clear for maintenance

d. Use of technology to minimize environmental impacts: POWERGRIDhas committedto use
   best technology practices to deal with environmental issues, such as use o f tower bases and
   revetments that prevent soil erosion near the tower, inlandslide prone areas; use o f special
   towers for wetlands, coasts and riverbeds etc.

e. IntegratedManagement System: POWERGRID has been certified with Integrated
   Management System comprising o f ISO: 9001 for Quality Management, ISO:14001 for
   Environment Management and OHSAS:18001for Occupational Health & Safety.
   POWERGRID will continue to rely on a thirdparty independent certification o f its
   management system to continually improve its environmental performance.

f. Resettlement: POWERGRIDwill strictly adhereto thebasicprinciples ofavoiding
   involuntary resettlement inall its schemesby locating substations on government land as
   far as possible. Incase resettlement is inevitable, POWERGRID will mitigate the adverse
   impacts arising due to land acquisition through its Social EntitlementFramework and
   ensure complete rehabilitation o f all affected families. This framework also takes into
   account the provisions o f the National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation
   (February 2004)

g. Entitlementframework: It categorizes type and extent o f socioeconomic impacts on the
   people as a result o f project interventions, provides replacement value for assets lost and
   establishes eligibilities for support intheir resettlement and economic rehabilitation.

h. Land Management: POWERGRIDwill continue to follow thepractice ofminimizingthe
   landrequirement to the barest minimumand to ensure that, particularly, vulnerable groups,
   includingtribal groups, do not suffer adversely. No land i s acquired for footing towers and,
   to the extent possible, undertakes site construction activity after the harvest to avoid
   damage to crops. However, there are no restrictions to cultivation under the towers and
   compensation at market rate is provided for any loss o f or damage to crops during
   construction and maintenance. POWERGRID ensures that hazards due to fires are non-
   existent by adopting highstandards o f safety.

i. Developmentof vulnerablegroups: POWERGRIDwillensurethatthetransmissionroute
   does not threat the survival o f any community with particular reference to vulnerable
   groups, including tribal groups. Ifinitial preliminary assessment concludes that tribal
   groups will be affected by the proposed interventions at the scheme level and ifthere are no
   alternative routes, a detailed social assessment will be undertaken to identify issues and
   concerns and prepare a Tribal Development Plan (TDP) usingthe tribal development
   strategy included inESPP.




                                              59

j. Environmentalprotection measures at Sub Stations: POWERGRIDwill implement Rain
   Water Harvesting and collection system for its conservation and recharging o f ground
   water inall upcomingbuildings and substations; greening o f available land at sub stations;
   and work towards making all its offices and other installation CFC free.

k. Institutional arrangements:For environment and social matters, at the Corporate level,
   POWERGRID has put inplace and environment and social management department
   (ESMD) under the direct control of Executive Director (Corporate Planning), while at
   regional level it i s supported by an Environmental and Social Management Cell (ESMC) to
   manage Environmental and Social issues and to coordinate between ESMD at the
   Corporate level and the Site office. Key responsibilities for ESMD include environmental
   and social screening and scoping for transmission lines and sub stations; obtaining
   regulatory approvals; EA and SA; monitoring implementation o f Environmental and Social
   management plans; monitoringheporting; and annual review o f the EMP and SMP/RAP.
   Inorder to improve planningand implementingenvironmental andsocial management
   plans and to meet the international requirementroenchmarkthe, ESPP will be reviewed
   regularly by an independent committee of experts comprising eminentpersonshenowned
   environmentalist' experts o f international repute, includingrepresentatives o f funding
   agencies




                                            60

  4.     Environmentand Social ManagementProceduresintransmission lines and sub station
                  projectsEnvironmentalAnd Social ManagementProcedure




                                 -
CONCEPTUALISATION                                                     .----- - --------..-
                                                                      Env. & Social        I
                                                                                           I
                                                                                           I
                                                                      Screening Report     I
                                                                                           I
                                                                      as part of           I
                                                                                           I
                                                                      .Feasibility-Report-._I-
                                                                                           I
                                                                      -------- ----        I




                          Detailed Survey for Baseline Info        E~VIRONMENTAL&
                          Finalize optimal route                  SOCIAL SCREENINGAND
                                                                      SCOPINGFOR
PROJECT PLANNING          Select Optional Sub Station Site
                          Consultation with Stake Holders
                                                                   I
                                    ENVIRONMENT     ASSESSMENT
                     1 . m .
        I                             AND MANAGEMENT      PLAN




                           MOEFFORFOREST
                               CLEARANCE




                             ANNUALEAMPREVIEW

Mainstreaming environmental and social concerns at various stages of project

5.      Project Conceptualization:Environment and Social Management Department
(ESMD) will undertake Environmental and Social Screening and Scoping for
transmission lines and sub stations inorder to identify environmentally and socially
sensitive areas, issues, and possible management measures; suggest alternative
transmission line routes, ifnecessary; and outline scope o f environmental and social
assessment and management planning. The initial maps /GIs survey will be verified in
the field to check possibilities o f circumventing environmentally and socially sensitive
areas and collect information on issues identified, where state forest departments and
revenue authorities will be consulted for their views on land records. The scope o f an
Environmental and Social Assessment and Management Plan (EAMP and RAP/TDP) i s
finalized after screening and scoping. ESMDwill obtain an approval subject to
environmental and social clearance, wherever applicable, from its internal management
based on the results o f environmental screening and scoping.

6.      Project Planning: ESMD o f POWERGRIDcorporate office will plan for a
detailed environmental and social assessment and management planning and the process
o f obtaining forest clearance. Regional and site offices, inconsultation with ESMD, will
prepare a proposal to Forest department for transmission line going through the forest
areas. Inthe case o f substations, an environmental review will be undertaken and
appropriate management measures will be formulated. ESMDwill undertake an
environmental and social review based on the social and environmental screening and
scoping and formulate appropriate management plans (EAMP, RAP and TDP) for
transmission lines and substations. Where project interventions involve land acquisition,
a detailed social impact assessment will be carried out along with census o f affected
population and an RAP i s prepared. Ifinitial preliminary assessment concludes that tribal
groups will be affected by the proposed interventions at the scheme level, a detailed
social assessment will be undertaken to identify issues and concerns o f tribal groups and
prepare a TDP using the tribal development strategy includedinESPP. RAP/TDP will
include community development activities to be implemented for the benefit o f local
people at each o f the scheme areas.

7.      Project Implementation: Duringthis phase, execution o f the Environmental
Assessment and Management Plan (EAMP) and RAP/TDP will be integrated with project
implementation taking into account appropriate ground clearance for transmission line,
Righto fWay (ROW),etc. bythe contractor. Wherever line passes through forested area,
Forest authorities will carry out compensatory afforestation includingother mitigation
measures as per agreed plan. No construction activities are initiated unless affected
people are fully compensated for their losses. All entitlements for rehabilitation o f the
affected people are provided during this phase. Also, ESMD will plan for regular
supervision o f EMP, SMAP/RAP implementation including compensatory afforestation
through Regional officedDHQs responsible for particular site area worldoffice, while at
the scheme level patrolling o f Row, and implementation o f other activities will be
monitored on a daily basis. The implementation will be monitored & reviewed by In-



                                              62

charge o f the regions while the exception report will be reviewed by CEO o f
POWERGRID every month. External agencies will be involved to evaluate RAP
implementation at its completion.

8.      Annual Environmental and Social Review: POWERGRIDwill internally or with
a consultant (ifnecessary) review social and environmental performance o f the project
duringconstruction, operation andmaintenance.
9.       First Year Management Plans: As part o fthe project preparation, POWERGRID
has completed initial environmental assessment o f the activities proposed to be
implemented during the first year o f the project period. Similarly, social impact
assessment o f activities (three grid substations) proposed to be implemented duringthe
first year o f the project period has also been completed. Based on the social assessment,
POWERGRIDhas prepared RAP for each o fthe three grid substations included for
implementation inthe first year o f the project. The details o f processing various
activities/ preparations o f core schemes are described below:

10.      Initial environment assessments(IEAR) for a) 2500 MW Balia-Bhiwadi Bipole
b) 765 kV Seoni -Bina line & c) Seoni -Wardha -k o l a-Aurangabad transmission
system have been completed in-house by POWERGRIDwith the help o f GIS/GPS based
survey and ground survey verifications insensitive areas & important points. Updated
IEAR also submitted after incorporating Bank's comments and accordingly in-principle
acceptance was conveyed to POWERGRID.However, Final Environment assessment
reports (FEAR) shall include updated information such as approval o f forested area by
MOEF/GOI& improved mitigationmeasures as indicatedinIEAR.This FEARis
expected to be finalized by POWERGRIDinN o v . when      ' ~ ~the detailed surveyfor entire
line is scheduledto be complete.

Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP): For three grid stations namely Balia HVDC/HVAC,
Bhiwadi H V D C & Wardha, POWERGRID carried out Socio-economic survey (SES) and
based on SES findings draft R A P s were prepared and these were examined by the Bank.
Updated RAPS(after the third party social assessment) are expected to be submitted by
POWERGRIDinJan.'06 incorporating Bank's comments-public consultation inmatrix
form, translation o f government order inEnglishand other details o f LA completion etc.
Public consultations i s a continuous process and i s inprogress and will form an integral
part o f finalizing RAPs which is presently under progress with the help o f the Consultants
(includingre-doing some o fthe socio-economic survey/assessment issues) to make these
report available inJan.'O6.

These reports are finally to be submitted to the Bank for further review and acceptance.




                                               63

S

-Y
E
Y
Q

Q
1
Y
2u
S
.?
J
Y
u

r
zf


-
I

Y

n
8




       -0
       5


a".i
   E


                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
               INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I11                 -


                                                 Planned                      Actual
PCNreview                                       04/16/2004                  06/07/2004
Initial PID to PIC                              05114/2004                  06/23/2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                             05/14/2004                  06123/2004
Appraisal                                       01/19/2005                  01/19/2005
Negotiations                                    04/18/2005                  11/18/2005
Board/RVP approval                              01/19/2006
Planned date o f effectiveness                  05/31/2006
Planned date o f mid-ternreview                 12/31/2008
Planned closing date                            07/31/2011

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe project: Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd.
Responsible Agency: Ministry o f Power, Government of India

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                            Title                           Unit
SunilKumar Khosla                Team Leader / Sr. Energy Specialist            SASEI
Judith Plummer                   Sr. FinancialAnalyst                           SASEI
Pedro Sanchez                    Sr. Energy Specialist                          SASEI
RashidAziz                       Sr. Energy Specialist                          SASEI
MikulBhatia                      ResearchAnalvst                                SASEI
Priya Chopra                     Program Assistant                              SASEI
Minerva S. Espinosa-Apurada      Program Assistant                              SASEI
MohammadHasan                    Sr. Social Development Specialist             SASES
Sanjay Srivastava                Sr. EnvironmentalSpecialist                   SASES
Manoj Jain                       Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist            SARFM
Sushi1Kumar Bahl                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                    SARPS
IanAlexander                     Consultant Economist                           SASEI




Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources:       $312,500
     2. Trust funds:          $5,900
     3. Total:                $318,400

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval:        $40,000
     2. Estimated annual supervision cost:  $100,000




                                               67

                           Annex 12: Documentsin the ProjectFile
               INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I11                     -


1.     Project InformationDocument (Jan 18,2005)
2.     Integrated SafeguardData Sheet (Jan 18,2005)
3.     POWERGRID's Project Implementation Plan (March 2005)
4.     Environment and Social Policy and Procedures (ESPP) - (December 28,2004)
5.     RehabilitationAction Plan-Jan. 6, 2005

   e   Social Assessment & RehabilitationAction Plan (RAP) o f Balia inUttar Pradesh

   e   Social Assessment & RehabilitationAction Plan for 765/400/220 kV substation at
       Wardha

   e   Social Assessment & RehabilitationAction Plan (RAP) o f 500kV HVDC terminal at
       Bhiwadi (Rajasthan)
6.     Initial EnvironmentalAssessment Reports -Jan. 6,2005

   e   Initial EnvironmentalAssessment (IEAR) o f 500kV HVDC Bi-pole line Balia (UP)to
       Bhiwadi (Rajasthan)

   e   Initial EnvironmentalAssessment (IEAR) for Seoni-Bina 765 kV Transmission system

   e   Initial EnvironmentalAssessment (IEAR) for Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad
       Transmission System
7.     Summary sent to SECBO
8.     General Procurement Notice for publication indg market
9.     RehabilitationAction Plan (Revised) for 500 kV HVDC terminal at Bhiwadi -May
       2005
10.    Action Planon FinancialManagement issues     -  Nov 9,2005
11.    Electricity Act 2003
12.    Project Appraisal Document
13.    Economic Benefits, Financial IRRand Financial Projections Calculations
14.    GO1Request (January 9,2004) received from DEA for World Bank Assistance for
           Transmission Projects of POWERGRID



Note: Inaddition there i s further documentation available inthe files for the ongoing PSDP I1

project.




                                               68

                                     Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                        INDIA: POWER SYSTEMDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                    - I11


                                                                                                             Differencebetween
                                                                                                             expectedand actual
                                                         Onginal Amount in US$Millions                         disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                IBRD      IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Ong.      Frm. Rev'd

PO79708    2006 TN Empwr & Pov Reduction                0.00    120.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   114.92   -0.14        0.00
PO83780    2006 T N Urban I11                         300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  299.25    -0.75        0.00
PO77856    2005 Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway  620.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  620.00     0.00        0.00
PO77977    2005 Rural Roads Project                     99.50   300.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  358.82    14.12        0.00
PO75058    2005 TN HEALTH SYSTEMS                       0.00    110.83      0.00      0.00  20.06    81.38   -2.60        0.92
PO73370    2005 MadhyaPradeshWater Sector             394.02      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   371.82    1.87        0.00
                Restructunn
PO73651    2005 DISEASE SURVEILLANCE                    0.00     68.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    62.41    3.56        0.00
PO84632    2005 Hydrology I1                           104.98     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   104.98   12.34        0.00

PO84790    2005 MAHAR WSIP                            325.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   293.38  -30.63        0.00
PO84792    2005 Assam Agnc Competitiveness              0.00    154.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   141.50   -2.47        0.00
PO86518    2005 INSME Financing& Development           120.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    79.40   34.40        0.00
PO94513    2005 India Tsunami ERC                       0.00    465.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   394.37   38.00        0.00
PO73776    2004 ALLAHABAD BYPASS                      240.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   193.58   61.58        0.00
PO55459    2004 ELEMENTARY EDUCATION                     0.00   500.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   353.65  141.41        0.00
                PROJECT (SSA)
PO73369    2004 MAHAR RWSS                               0.00   181.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   175.14   21.60        0.00
PO50655    2004  RAJASTHAN HEALTH SYSTEMS                0.00    89.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    84.89   26.30        0.00
                DEVELOPMENT
PO78550    2004 Uttar Wtrshed                            0.00    69.62      0.00      0.00   0.00    66.07   -2.11        0.00
PO79865    2004 GEF BiosafetyProject                     0.00     0.00      0.00      1.oo   0.00     0.87    0.40        0.00
PO82510    2004 KamatakaUWS Improvement Project         39.50     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    37.02   16.92        0.00
PO73094    2003 AP Comm ForestMgmt                       0.00   108.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    78.44    3.49        0.00
PO72123    2003 TechiEnggQuality Improvement Project     0.00   250.00      0.00      0.00  40.11   206.83   64.26        -5.97
PO71272    2003 AP RURAL POV REDUCTION                   0.00   150.03      0.00      0.00   0.00    79.60   12.40         0.00
PO67606    2003 UP ROADS                               488.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   398.72  139.27         0.00
PO50649    2003 TN ROADS                               348.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   300.74   51.78         0.00
PO76467    2003 Chatt DRPP                               0.00   112.56      0.00      0.00  20.06    93.75   18.19         0.00
P075056    2003 Food& Drugs Capacity Building Project    0.00    54.03      0.00      0.00   0.00    52.99   22.35         0.00
PO50653    2002 KARNATAKA RWSS I1                        0.00   151.60      0.00      0.00  15.04   107.63   53.24         0.00
PO72539    2002 KERALA STATE TRANSPORT                 255.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   165.52   15.19         0.00
PO50668    2002 MUMBAI URBANTRANSPORT                  463.00    79.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   444.51  156.18         0.00
                PROJECT
PO40610    2002 RAJWSRP                                  0.00   140.00      0.00      0.00  15.04   105.75   53.00         0.00
PO50647    2002 UP WSRP                                  0.00   149.20      0.00      0.00  40.11   108.52   93.87         0.00
PO74018    2002 Gujarat EmergencyEarthquake              0.00   442.80      0.00      0.00  80.23   178.00 , 187.80        5.92
                Reconstruct
PO69889    2002 MIZORAM ROADS                            0.00    60.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    40.03    5.98         0.00
PO71033    2002 KARN Tank Mgmt                           0.00    98.90      0.00      0.00  25.07    72.27   42.30         0.00
PO71244    2001 GrandTrunk RoadImprovementProject      589.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   290.30  247.97         0.00
PO50658    2001 TECHN EDUC I11                           0.00    64.90      0.00      0.00   0.00    22.06    10.91       -0.51
PO55454    2001 JSERALA RWSS                             0.00    65.50      0.00      0.00   10.00   31.93   21.37         4.65
PO55455    2001 RAJ DPEP I1                              0.00    74.40      0.00      0.00   0.00    38.23    18.21        0.00
PO35173    2001 POWERGRIDI1                            450.00     0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    95.72   76.65        31.74


                                                              69

PO59242   2001   M P DPIP                                  0.00   110.10     0.00      0.00     20.06     40.00    36.56        18.09
PO10566   2001   GUJARAT HWYS                           381.00       0.00    0.00      0.00     61.00    123.10   164.43       129.31
PO38334   2001   RAJ POWER I                            180.00       0.00    0.00      0.00      2.02     56.24    58.26         2.24

PO67216   2001   KAR WSHD DEVELOPMENT                      0.00   100.40     0.00      0.00     20.06     69.67    73.72         0.00
PO70421   2001   KARNHWYS                               360.00       0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00    158.79    87.46         0.00

PO10505   2000   RAJASTHAN DPIP                            0.00   100.48     0.00      0.00      0.00     48.84    40.30        26.83

PO45049   2000   AP DPIP                                   0.00   111.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     30.69     13.90        0.00

PO09972   2000   N A T I O N A LHIGHWAYS 111PROJECT     516.00       0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00    187.07    187.07      -22.93

PO49770   2000   RENEGY I1                                80.00     50.00    0.00      0.00     18.00     49.62     60.20       52.86
PO50657   2000   UP Health Systems Development Project     0.00   110.00     0.00      0.00     30.09     43.49     60.56        -3.25
PO67330   2000   IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING                0.00   142.60     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.23    -88.27         0.00
                 PROJECT
PO59501   2000   M - T A for Econ Reform Project           0.00     45.00    0.00      0.00     12.03     21.58     26.64        17.28

PO55456   2000    IN-TelecommunicationsSector Reform      62.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     20.00     11.47     31.47         8.36
                 TA
PO50667   2000   UP DPEP I11                               0.00    182.40    0.00      0.00      0.00     30.87     31.82        31.82
PO45051   1999   2ND N A T L HIVIAIDS CO                   0.00    191.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     15.11     12.21        -1.93
PO45050   1999   RAJASTHAN DPEP                            0.00     85.70    0.00      0.00      0.00     18.89     15.94        15.94
PO50646   1999   UP Sodic Lands I1                         0.00    194.10    0.00      0.00      0.00     28.08     22.92        -6.70

PO50651   1999   MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                       0.00    134.00    0.00      0.00     35.01      6.3 1    36.12        12.66
PO49385   1998   AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                   301.30    241.90     0.00      0.00      0.00     60.55     58.61        41.24

PO35827   1998   WOMEN &. CHILD DEVLPM                     0.00    300.00    0.00      0.00     25.07     50.71     64.51         0.58

PO38021   1998   DPEP 111(BIHAR and Jharkhand)             0.00    152.00    0.00      0.00     30.09     21.76     42.62        12.16

PO10496   1998   ORISSA HEALTH SYS                         0.00     76.40    0.00      0.00      0.00     15.64      9.90        -3.71

PO10473   1997   TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                      0.00    142.40    0.00      0.00     13.04     14.16     32.02         2.08

                                                 Total: 6,716.30  6,527.85   0.00      1.00    552.19   7,847.86  2,707.18     369.68


                                                INDIA STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  Heldand Disbursed Portfolio
                                                     InMillions ofU S Dollars


                                                              Committed                                Disbursed

                                                            IFC                                      IFC

      FY Approval    Company                     Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity     Quasi     Partic.

      2005           ADPCL                       41.90        7.00      0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2006           AHEL                        0.00         5.08      0.00    0.00       0.00       5.08       0.00      0.00
      2005           AP Paper Mills              35.00        5.00      0.00    0.00       0.00       5.00       0.00      0.00
      2005           APIDC Biotech               0.00         4.00      0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2002           A T L                       17.65        0.00      0.00    12.18      17.65      0.00       0.00     12.18

      2003           A T L                       1.46         0.00      0.00    0.00        1.14      0.00       0.00      0.00

      2005           A T L                       9.96         0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00

      2003           BHF                         10.93        0.00     10.93    0.00       10.93      0.00      10.93      0.00
      2004           BILT                        0.00         0.00     15.00    0.00       0.00       0.00      15.00      0.00

      2001           BTVL                        18.10        5.00      0.00    0.00       18.10      5.00       0.00      0.00
      2003           Balrampur                   14.34        0.00      0.00    0.00       14.34      0.00       0.00      0.00
      2001           Basix Ltd.                  0.00         0.98      0.00    0.00       0.00       0.98       0.00      0.00

      2005           Bharat Biotech              0.00         0.00      4.50    0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00

      1984           Bihar Sponge                6.63         0.00      0.00    0.00       6.63       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2001           CCIL                        6.75         0.00      0.00    6.71        6.75      0.00       0.00      6.71

      2003           CCIL                        1.51         0.00      0.00    0.00       0.59       0.00       0.00      0.00
      1990           CESC                        8.11         0.00      0.00    0.00        8.11      0.00       0.00      0.00
                                                                  70

1992    CESC                11.45    0.00   0.00  25.53   11.45   0.00   0.00   25.53
2004    CGL                 15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    8.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2004    CMScomputers        10.00   10.00   2.50   0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2002    COSMO               5.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2005    COSMO               0.00     4.20   0.00   0.00    0.00   4.20    0.00   0.00
2004    Caim Energy         40.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995    Centurion Bank      0.00     0.69   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.69    0.00   0.00
2005    Centurion Bank      0.00     0.07   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.07    0.00   0.00
2005    DCM Shriram         30.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003    DQEL                0.00     1S O   1S O   0.00    0.00    1.50   1.50   0.00
2005    Dabur               0.00    15.10   0.00   0.00    0.00   15.10   0.00   0.00
2003    Dewan               11.05    0.00   0.00   0.00   11.05   0.00    0.00   0.00
        EXB-STG             0.31     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.31   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001    GTF Fact            0.00     1.20   0.00   0.00    0.00    1.20   0.00   0.00
1994    GVK                 0.00     5.24   0.00   0.00    0.00    5.24   0.00   0.00
1998    Global Trust        0.00     0.00   2.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    2.00   0.00
2003    HDFC                100.00   0.00   0.00  100.00  100.00  0.00    0.00  100.00
1998    IAAF                0.00     0.47   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.30   0.00   0.00
        ICICI-SPIC Fine     0.00     0.33   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.33   0.00   0.00
1995    ICICI-SPIC Fine     0.00     0.28   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.28   0.00   0.00
2000    ICICI-SPIC Fine     0.00     0.91   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.91   0.00    0.00
1998    IDFC                0.00    10.82   0.00   0.00    0.00   10.82   0.00    0.00
2005    IDFC                50.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
2001    IIEL                0.00     3.19   0.00   0.00    0.00    2.06   0.00    0.00
1990    IL& FS              0.00     0.49   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.49   0.00    0.00
1993    IL& FS              0.00     0.84   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.84   0.00    0.00
1998    IL& FS              0.00     0.84   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.84   0.00    0.00
1992    IL&FS VC            0.00     0.14   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.14   0.00    0.00
1995    IL&FS VC            0.00     0.18   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.18   0.00    0.00
1996    India Direct Fnd    0.00     1.10   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.64   0.00    0.00
2001    Indian Seamless     6.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    6.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996    Indus I1            0.00     0.42   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.42   0.00    0.00
1992    Indus VC Mgt Co     0.00     0.01   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.01   0.00    0.00
1992    Info Tech Fund      0.00     0.39   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.39   0.00    0.00
2005    KMahindra INDIA     22.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   22.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2005    W I T               11.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2003    L&T                 50.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   50.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
1990    M&M                 0.00     0.07   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.07   0.00    0.00
1993    M&M                 0.00     0.01   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01   0.00    0.00
2002    MMFSL               9.48     0.00   7.97    0.00    9.48   0.00   7.97    0.00
2003    MSSL                0.00     2.29   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.20   0.00    0.00
2001    MahInfra            0.00    10.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.79   0.00    0.00
1996    Moser Baer          0.00     0.39   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.39   0.00    0.00
1999    Moser Baer          2.06     6.24   0.00   0.00     2.06   6.24   0.00    0.00
2000    Moser Baer          18.45    9.68   0.00   0.00    18.45   9.68   0.00    0.00
1997    NICCO-UCO           1.88     0.00   0.00   0.00     1.88   0.00   0.00    0.00
2001    NIIT-SLP            8.60     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2003    NewPath             0.00     9.31   0.00   0.00     0.00   7.06   0.00    0.00
2004    NewPath             0.00     2.79   0.00   0.00     0.00   2.12   0.00    0.00
2003    Niko Resources      37.78    0.00   0.00   0.00    37.78   0.00   0.00    0.00
2001    Orchid              0.00     3.03   0.00    0.00    0.00   3.03   0.00    0.00

1997    Owens Coming                  7.71         0.00      0.00    0.00      7.71     0.00      0.00   0.00

2004    Powerlinks                    77.42        0.00      0.00    0.00     46.16     0.00      0.00   0.00
1995    PrismCement                   9.97         0.00      0.00    3.95      9.97     0.00      0.00   3.95

2004    RAKIndia                      20.00        0.00      0.00    0.00     20.00     0.00      0.00   0.00

1995    Rain Calcining                0.00         2.73      0.00    0.00      0.00     2.73      0.00   0.00
2004    Rain Calcining                10.00        0.00      0.00    0.00     10.00     0.00      0.00   0.00
2005    Ramky                         3.96         10.90     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00

2001    SBI                           50.00        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00

1997    S E I                         4.29         0.00      0.00    0.00      4.29     0.00      0.00   0.00

2000    SREI                          7.50         0.00      0.00    0.00      7.50     0.00      0.00    0.00

2005    SRF Ltd.                      20.00        0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00

1995    Sara Fund                     0.00         3.71      0.00    0.00      0.00     3.71      0.00    0.00
2004    SeaLion                       5.12         0.00      0.00    0.00      5.12     0.00      0.00    0.00

2001    Spryance                      0.00         1.90      0.00    0.00      0.00     1.90      0.00    0.00

2003    Spryance                      0.00         0.95      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.95      0.00    0.00

2004    SundaramFinance               45.54        0.00      0.00    0.00     45.54     0.00      0.00    0.00

2000    Sundaram Home                 0.00         2.18      0.00    0.00      0.00     2.18      0.00    0.00
2002    SundaramHome                  9.01         0.00      0.00    0.00      9.01     0.00      0.00    0.00
1998    TCWiICICI                     0.00         0.80      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.80      0.00    0.00
2005    TISCO                         100.00       0.00      0.00  200.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
2002    TML                           50.00        0.00      0.00    0.00     50.00     0.00      0.00    0.00

2004    UPL                           17.50        0.00      0.00    0.00     17.50     0.00      0.00    0.00

1996    United Riceland               6.88         0.00      0.00    0.00      6.88     0.00      0.00    0.00
2005    United Riceland               8.50         0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00

2002    UshaMartin                    19.43         1.44     0.00    0.00      19.43    1.44      0.00    0.00
2001    Vysya Bank                    0.00         3.66      0.00    0.00      0.00     3.66       0.00   0.00
2005    Vysya Bank                    0.00          3.51     0.00    0.00      0.00     3.51       0.00   0.00
1997    WIV                           0.00         0.57      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.57       0.00   0.00
1997    Walden-Mgt India              0.00          0.01     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.01       0.00   0.00

                    Total portfolio:  1,085.23    161.64    44.40   348.37    651.81   115.76     37.40  148.37



                                                               Approvals Pending Commitment

         FY Approval     Company                           Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.

         2000            APCL                            0.01         0.00        0.00      0.00
         2005            Allain Duhangan                 0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00
         2004            CGL                             0.01         0.00        0.00      0.00
         2004            CIFCO                           0.00         0.00        0.02      0.00
         2001            GI Wind Farms                   0.01         0.00        0.00      0.00
         2005            KPIT                            0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00
         2004            Ocean Sparkle                   0.00         0.00        0.00       0.00
         2006            Tata Steel Bloan                0.00         0.00        0.00       0.10
         2001            Vysya Bank                      0.00         0.00        0.00       0.00

                               Total pending commitment:    0.03      0.00        0.02       0.10




                                                        72

                                                Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                      INDIA: POWERSYSTEMDEVELOPMENTPROJECT                                                                   - I11

POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                        South        Low-
                                                                India      Asia     income         3evelopmentdiamond'
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                1,079.7     1,448       2,338
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               620         590       510                       Life expectancy
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                672.8        860      1,184                                -
Average annual growth, 199844

Population(%)                                                     1.6         1.7       1.8
Laborforce (%J                                                    2.1         2.1       2.1        GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                                   per     i-                              prima>
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199844)                                               capita                                enroilmen!
Poverty(% of population below nationalpovertyline)                29
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                           29          28        30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                    63          63         58                                1.
Infant mortality (per 1,000live bilthsj                           65          66         79
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                        47          48        44              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)              84          84         75
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 75+J                                39          41         39
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulationi               99          97         94         -
    Male                                                         107         105        101                India            Low-incomegroup

    Female                                                        90          92         88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1984        1994       2003       2004          Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  206.5       322.6     600.7       688.7
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                         21.6        23.4       23.0       24.6
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                        6.5       10.0       15.1       16.2                              Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           18.8        24.8       28.1       22.8
Gross national savings/GDP                           19.4        26.0       30.8       24.9                                T
Current account balance/GDP                           -1.4       -1.2         1.4       0.3
Interest payments/GDP                                  0.5        1.3        18.4      16.9
Total debffGDP                                       16.5        31.8        19.2      17.6
Total debt servicdexports                            18.3        26.6        12.9       8.7
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                     16.7                                          -
Presentvalue of debtiexports                                                89.3
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                         1984-94  199444        2003       2004     200448
(average annual growthJ
GDP                                         5.4        5.8        8.6         6.9       6.1           **--*
GDP per capita                              3.3        4.1        7.0         5.4       4.8                 India             Low-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services               9.0      12.8         4.9         8.0      15.8


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDPJ                                          1984         Igg4                              Growth of investment and GDP (Oh)               I
Agriculture                                          352         304        228        212
                                                                            264        270       1 '1
Industry                                             262         271
   Manufacturing                                     164         169         156        16 1
Services                                             387         425        507        518       ,  I
Privateconsumption                                   690         662        667        645       ' 0 6     2       C;        C;    $     2      0
General governmentconsumption                        108         107         11 3       127      1
Imports of goods and services                          7 9       103         16 1       18 0                   ~ " " " " G D I   -GDP


                                                                                                1
(average annual growth)                           1984-94    1994-04                              Growth of exports and imports (%)                I
Agriculture                                            3 4        2 0         9 6                                                                  I
lndustly                                               6 3        5 6         7 0
   Manufacturing                                       6 2        5 6         6 9
Services                                               6 7        8 2         8 9

Privateconsumption                                     5.7        4.7        11.3
General governmentconsumption                          4.8        5.9         3.7       3.9
Gross domestic investment                              5.0        6.9         9.0        7.3                         Exports     *Imports
Importsof goods and services                           8.4        9.6        11.2       11.0


Note: 2004 represents200405 and data are preliminaryestimates and staff projections.
*The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its incomegoup average. if data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                       73

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1984    1994     2003     2004
Domestic prices                                                                Inflation (%)

(% change)                                                                    15

Consumer prices                              4.3     7.6      3.7      6.6    10
Implicit GDP deflator                        7.4     9.7      3.2      4.9

Government finance                                                             5

(% of GDP,includes current grants)                                             0
Current revenue                                    18.0     18.7      19.9               99     00       01       02     03        0
Current budget balance                             -3.7      4 . 9    -5.8
Overall surplusideficit                            -7 5      -9.3    -10.6               -GDP        deflator    *CPI



TRADE
                                           1984    1994     2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                                 ixport and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                       10,061 26,855   62,952   76,345
 Tea                                        321   1,126    1,321               25,w0  T
 Iron                                       453     988    2,341               00 000

 Manufactures                             5,614  20,404   47,616   57,898      75 000
Total imports (ciD                        15,715 35,904   79,658   99,836       50 000
 Food                                      1,384  1,144    3,059
 Fuel and energy                          4,596   5,928   20,570                25 000
                                                                                                                                    I
 Capital goods                            2,546   7,638    17,132  20,915            0

Export price index (1995=100)                99     109       93      104                98   99     00      01    02    03

Import price index (1995=100)               119     104       100     113                         Exports          W Imports     O4
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    83     105       94       92

BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                                                                 I
                                           1984    1994     2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                                 Currentaccount balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services              13,508 32,990   90,568   108,948
Imports of goods and services             18,065 41,437   96,590   121,250
Resource balance                          4,557  -8,447    -6,022  -12,302

Net income                                 -838  -3,431    -4,703   -4,800
Net current transfers                     2,496   8,093    18,885   19,243

Current account balance                   -2,899 -3,785     8,160    2,141

Financing items (net)                     2,516   9,526    8,820    19,655
Changes in net reserves                     383  -5,741   -16,980  -21,795

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    5,952  25,186  111,648   133,441
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$j            11.9   31.4     46.0      44.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1984    1994     2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                                ~Compositionof 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed      34,036 102,483 115,277   121,456
  IBRD                                     1,688 11,244     4,126    4,865
  IDA                                      8,545 17,758    22,351   23,662

Total debt service                         2,973 10,951    14,469   11,337
  IBRD                                      257   1,641     2,079      288
  IDA                                        109    325       771      755

Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                           483     416       559      646
  Official creditors                       1,363    970     2,231
  Private creditors                        1,895  1,438     8,565
  Foreigndirect investment                     0    983     3,137    4,020
  Portfolio equity                             0  3,824    11,355    8,996

World Bank program
  Commitments                             2,651   2,064     1,600    2,705      A IBRD
                                                                                  -                                  E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                            1,114  1,783     1,717    1,835      B - IDA     D - Other multilateral   F Private
                                                                                                                      -
  Principal repayments                       129  1,062     2,468      784      C-IMF                                G -Short-term
  Net flows                                 985     721     -751     1,051
  Interest payments                         237     904       381      259
  Net transfers                             748    -183    -1,133      792


DeveloDment Economics                                                                                                          8/1/05




                                                         74

   Annex 15: Implementationof Open Access RegimeandDevelopmentof Power Trading
                  INDIA: POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                - I11       .



1.     The Indian power sector primarily comprises o f generating companies either owned by
the centre and states jointly or solely by the centre, central transmission utility (CTU), regional
load dispatch centers (RLDCs), state electricity boards (SEBs)/state power utilities21 and
independent power producers (IPPs). Apart from generating their own power, the S E B S also                  ~ ~
purchase power from central sector generating stations under long term (20 to 25 years duration)
Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), which are based on the state's allocation o f central sector
capacity as defined by the GoI. The PPAs specify the volume o f transaction, though not the
price, which i s set periodically by the central regulator. Power trading between states i s carried
out under bilateral agreements, which are usually o f a much shorter duration than PPAs. In the
states where the sector has been unbundled, the PPAs with central sector power suppliers have
been allocated (provisionally) to the state transmission company, who sell the power purchased
from the state generation company and central generating stations to the state distribution
companies. This is referred to as a single buyer
2.     Despite a huge increase in installed generation capacity, 1,362 MW in 1947 to about
120,000 MW in 2005, the power sector in India i s still characterized by severe shortages. There
are huge variations indemand and supply across the country since:

    0  demand for electricity i s spread across the vast country, whereas most o f the generation
       capacity i s concentrated in specific pockets, with coal reserves located in the eastern part
       o f the country and hydro generation capacity located largely in north and north-east (in
       the Himalayas);
    0  there i s an inherent diversity in the demand o f the various states which also results in
       periods o f seasonal surplus inone area coinciding with periods o f deficit inanother;
    0  there are pockets o f surplus power due to projected load growth not taking place in line
       with actual addition ingeneration capacity; and
    0  demand for electricity varies across the hours o f the day, with peaks occurring in
       different parts o f the country at differenttimes.
3.     The power situation in India has been a major constraint on the growth o f industry, with
frequent outages, load-shedding and voltage fluctuations compelling industry to establish back
up generation systems or compromise production. Also, with heavy transmission anddistribution
(T&D) losses (mainly on account o f theft) and tariffs for certain categories (such as agriculture
and rural domestic consumers) lower than the cost o f supply, tariffs levied on the industrial
consumers have been higher than the cost o f service. Consequently industrial consumers have
been a cross-subsidizing category, but receiving a poor quality o f power.
4.     Many large industries have set up captive power plants located close to, or within, their
manufacturing unit premises, as the state transmission and distribution utilities were not
obligated by law (until June 2003, when the EA 2003 was introduced) to transmit captive


21  Insome states (tenso far), the vertically integrated SEBshave beenunbundledinto separate (one or more)
    generation, transmission and several distribution utilities.
22  SEBsrefer to both SEBs or state Utilities, as the case may be.
23  However, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh have adopted the multi-buyer model, where each distribution
    company purchases power directly from generators and existing contracts have been `vested' to the distribution
    companies.
                                                          75

power.24 Plant size was restricted to the industry's own requirement and economies o f scale
from a large power plant could not be achieved, as surplus power could not be on-sold. Further,
small and medium industries could only set up diesel based generation systems, power from
which was much costlier than that from an efficiently runutility. Although there has been a huge
demand from industry for better quality and reliable power, the financial condition o f the state
electricity utilities has been abysmally poor and so failed to attract the investments in generation
to fulfill this demand.
Bulk-Power Tariff Regime.
5.       One o f the key facilitating factors inthe development o f power trading and Open Access
in Indiahas been the introduction o f a two-part bulk power tariff regime, referred to as ABT25.
The earlier system o f a single part bulk tariff regime for the sale o f electricity from central sector
generating stations to the state utilities was not conducive for promotion o f power trading
because:
     o fixed costs were allocated to buyers in proportion to their actual off-take. As a result,
         even if utilities didnot trade the surplus power from their share, they did not have to bear
         the associated fixed costs, which were allocated among all buyers; and
     o valuation of power was independent o f the demand and supply conditions. As a result
         demand-supply based price signals necessary to stimulate trading were absent.
6.       The anomalies o f single part tariff structure were corrected with the introduction o f
ABT, which provides for separate availability based fixed charges and variable charges to cover
fuel and other operating costs. Having paid the fixed charges to generators for making plants
available, state utilities find commercial logic in selling any surplus power to other states.
7.       ABT also provides a frequency based mechanism for the pricing o f Unscheduled
Interchange (UI), thus linking the valuation of power to the prevailing demand and supply
conditions, although the valuation i s administrative and not market based. Utilities can trade
power with the pool on a real-time basis at the prevailingpool price, by selling surplus power, or
buying power in case o f a deficit. Thus byjudiciously managing their demand and generation,
state utilities are able to optimize their operational performance. However, frequency linked
valuation o f UIin ABT i s essentially a balancing mechanism, required to settle deviations from
the schedule, and not really a trading mechanism. While UIinterchanges have been successfully
settled at the central (inter-state) level using the ABT, balancing mechanisms at the state level
have not yet been developed. Accurate boundary metering is a pre-requisite for implementing
ABT at the state level.
8.       The key challenge faced by the power sector is to meet the growing demand for
electricity. Provision o f Open Access and Power Trading would essentially facilitate narrowing
o f this demand-supply gap. It would enable addition o f generation capacity by:
     o allowing generators to sell directly to customers;
     o assuring industry ofqualitypower at competitive rates;
     o promoting efficiency through allocation o f additional capacity to paying customers; and




24   While the law did not obligate transmission companies to provide power transmission services to independent
     customers, there are examples o f BPTAs - BulkPower Transmission Agreements being entered into by
     transmission companies and some industries, inAndhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Orissa.
25   A paper on the World Bank South Asia website provides more informationon ABT and evidence to date.
                                                        76

    o improving the utilization o f excess capacity available with captives and generation
         utilities by facilitating trading.
Since transmission and distribution wiring businesses are natural monopolies, Open Access to
these i s a necessary precondition for competitive power trading inthe country.

Electricity A c t 2003
9.       The EA 2003 was introduced to provide an enabling framework for accelerated and more
efficient development o f the sector, by encouraging competition with regulatory oversight. It
replaced or amended three existing laws, namely, Indian Electricity Act, 1910, the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948 and the Electricity Regulatory Commissions Act, 1998. The Act delicenses
generation26, freely permits captive generation, provides Open Access in transmission from the
outset, requires Open Access in distribution to be introduced in phases and recognizes power
trading for the first time in India as a separate activity.                 The Act requires separation o f
transmission and trading businesses by all states within one year.27Under the new Act, a cross-
subsidy surcharge has to be paid by Open Access customers in order to offset the loss o f cross-
subsidizing customers from the utility's fold. While the act specifies that the surcharge has to be
phased out gradually, it does not provide the principles for the calculation o f the surcharge inthe
first place and the period over which the phasing out occurs.
10.      The new Act freely permits captive generation and consumers who draw their supplies
from remote captives have been granted Open Access to transmission and distribution networks
with no cross-subsidy surcharge. Further, the Act uses a highly inclusive definition o f the term
"captive generating plant", which incentivizes producers and buyers to form associations,
cooperative societies and companies for coming under the umbrella o f such captive stations.
Evidently, these provisions could exert a strong pull in favor o f capacity creation in the captive
segment, thus causing a migration o f bulk consumers from the distribution companies/ SEBs to
the captive fold.
11.      This i s the first power sector legislation in India to recognize trading as a separate
activity, thus providing impetus to the development o f trading. To ensure objectivity on the part
o f the transmission companies, the new act requires separation o f trading and transmission
("wires business") functions. While POWERGRID, the CTU, is only a wires company not
engaging in trading, most vertically integrated state utilities and unbundled state transmission
companies are engaged in trading (albeit on a long term contractual basis). States which have
not unbundled the vertically integrated utilities also have to separate out their transmission
function to comply with the EA 2003 by either creating a separate trading company or delegate
the trading function to the newly created generation or distribution companies.
12.      Recognizing the commercial opportunity, many o f the private sector players have applied
for trading licenses.28CERC has issued the Procedure, Terms & Conditions for grant o f Trading
License Regulations, 2004, buildingupon the provisions o f EA 2003.
13.      The Act also requires various agencies in the power sector such as Ministry o f Power,
CEA and CERC (and their counterparts at the state level) to develop various policies, guidelines
and regulations pertaining to Open Access. These are as follows:


26  However, Hydro projects continue to require clearance from Central Electricity Authority.
2'  The deadline for separation o f transmission and trading businesses has been extended o n a selective basis by the
    new national government and it now stands at December 2005 for most states.
28  Documentation on the CERC website inNovember 2004 listed 12 companies as having been granted inter-state
    trading licences.
                                                         77

14.      National Electricity Policy and Tariff Policy. The Central Government i s mandated to
prepare from time to time, the National Electricity Policy and the Tariff Policy. The National
Electricity Policy was published early in2005. It brings out the need to develop adequate surplus
capacity inthe transmission system to cater for the requirementso f Open Access customers. The
policy stresses the need to implement a national transmission tariff framework, consistent across
inter-state and intra-state systems. The draft National Tariff Policy has been issuedby the central
government to seek feedback from various stakeholders. The Act also requires the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA) to prepare a National Electricity Plan every five years.
15.      Policy on Private Participation in Transmission and Policy on Tariff based Competitive
Bidding of Transmission Services.       The central government has also brought out the draft
policies on private participation in transmission services and tariff based competitive biding o f
transmission services, for feedback from various stakeholders. These policies aim to facilitate the
investment o f private capital to the fast growing transmission sector. The policies include inter-
alia, a framework for selection o f projects for private participation, the process for biddingbased
selection o f private players and the role o f various stakeholders inthis.
16.      CERC Regulations. The CERC has introduced the Open Access in Inter-State
Transmission Regulations 2004 as required by the EA 2003. The regulations categorize Open
Access customers into long term and short term customers - more than 25 years duration being
classified as long term, and all others as short term. Short term Open Access cannot be for more
than one year at a time. While long term Open Access i s allowed in accordance with the long
term transmission planning, short term Open Access is available only if marginal capacity i s
available owing to inherent design margins or variations in power flows. Therefore, for short
term access, availability o f excess capacity in the system i s a critical requirement. The
regulations specify all the modalities for long term as well as short term Open Access such as
application procedure, calculation o f transmission charges, settlement mechanism (UIcharges),
System Operation charges, Reactive Energy charges etc.
17.      POWERGRID'SRole. As the CTU, and the operator o f the RLDCs (which are designated
as the nodal authority for short term Open Access), POWERGRID has undertaken the
responsibility o f actually providing Open Access. To resolve capacity congestion arising from
demand from multiple short term customers an e-bidding system has been implemented.
18.      SERC Regulations. The EA 2003 requires state regulatory commissions to introduce
Open Access in distribution in a phased manner, such that all consumers who require maximum
supply o f at least 1 MW are provided with the option o f Open Access within five years. While
most state commissions are yet to develop these regulations, the states o f Rajasthan, Andhra
Pradesh (A.P.) and Karnataka have taken a lead inpreparation o f these regulations. To exemplify
the nature o fproposed state levelregulations, the A.P. draft regulations proposephasing o f Open
Access starting with contracted demand greater than 5 MW from September 2005 then
progressively expanding access until contracted demand greater than 1MW will be subject to
OpenAccess from April 2008.

Experience to Date
19.      Since the formal introduction o f Open Access at the national transmission level there has
been significant activity    -  although the level is still only about 2-3% o f the total power
transmitted throughthe system. Figure 1shows the monthly number of transactions and the total
kWhcovered bythe transaction.



                                                    78

                      Figure 1: Open Access data -M a y 2004 to March 2005

          1001                                                                                T  2500




                May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05
                                   ' CZJMUSof Enerav -No.  of Transactions 1


20.    Emergence of Power Trading Companies in India Recognizing the potential gains from
trading inpower, Go1 established Power Trading Corporation o f India Limited(PTC)29, with the
promoter share holdings by four key public sector power companies, public financial institutions
and other private/public sector players in the power sector.30 As the first player in the power
trading business, PTC made a modest beginning with limited transactions amounting to 28.35
MUSduring 1999-2000, but expanded rapidly to reach 8,887 MUSduring 2004-05. After the
notification o f Electricity Act 2003, which recognized power trading as a separate activity,
several other companies have strengthened their presence in this arena. CERC has granted
trading licenses to 17 companies so far, o f which the prominent ones are Adani Exports Limited,
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, PTC India Limited, Reliance Energy Trading Limited and
Tata Power Trading Company Limited. While the sector is still dominated by PTC, the other
players have achieved about 27% market share over the last couple o f years. PTC also plays a
key role for power exchange with the neighboring countries, and is currently engaged intrade o f
power with projects inNepal and Bhutan.




29  With effect from 21 July, 2004, PowerTradingCorporationo f IndiaLimited becamePTC India Limited.
30  PTC was established in 1999 and brought its initial public offering for its stock in early 2004, which was
    heavily oversubscribed. The shareholdingof the company at present i s widely distributed, with five key public
    sector companies holding 39% (POWERGRID- 8%0, NTPC - 8%, PFC - 8%, NHPC - 8%, andDamodar Valley
    Corporation - 7%), Financial Institutions and Banks holding 14%, Mutual Funds - 5.6%, Private Sector
    CorporateBodies - 14.6%, ForeignInvestors - 10.8%and GeneralPublicholding 16%equity inPTC.
                                                      79

                               Figure 2: Growthof Power Trading
                              Power Traded during the year (MUS)


                 14000
                 12000
                 10000
                  8000
                  6000
                  4000
                  2000
                      0
                           99-00      00-01    01-02     02-03    03-04     04-05




Key Issues inImplementationof OpenAccess andDevelopment of Power Trading in India
21.     Transmission pricing. The prevailing postage stamp methodologies for transmission
pricing do not appear to be adequate for provision o f Open Access. In addition, point-to-point
contract path Open Access may not be sustainable in the long-term as greater requests for Open
Access are made. Consequently, consideration needs to be given to whether modifications are
neededinthe medium-term -or whether a complete change insystem shouldbe envisaged. With
the help o f competent advisors, over the next one to two years, a new transmission pricing
regime needs to be developed that i s able to support Open Access.

22.    Development of Spare Transmission Capacity. To facilitate the introduction of Open
Access and the development o f a power market and also for secure reliable operation o f the grid,
adequate margins in transmission system capacity need to be created and how the cost o f this
spare capacity would be recoveredby the investing transmission company.


23.    Strengthening of State Transmission Systems. For successful implementation o f Open
Access at the state as well as national level it will be necessary to strengthen the institutional and
physical capacities at the state level.


24.     Cross Subsidy Surcharge A key policy issue in design o f transmission pricing
methodology would be the quantum o f cross-subsidy surcharge to be levied on Open Access
customers, as provided by the EA 2003. If the cross-subsidy surcharge fully offsets the gains
from direct purchase of power from a generator, or from operating a remote captive, there will be
no interest from the industryinOpen Access facility.
25.    Balancing mechanism for intra state application. It appears that UI provides the
necessary energy balancing mechanism for regional interstate OpenAccess transfers - at least in
the short- to medium-term. Since the valuation o f energy is based on the prevailing frequency, it
takes into account the demand and supply conditions as well. However, at the state level, there is


                                                 80

no such mechanism available, and an open issue exists as to how the states will provide a similar
function for transactions.
26.      Institutional capabilities. The design and administration o f Open Access regimes will
impose substantial challenges for the institutions which are required to develop detailed rules,
and administer those rules. This includes the regulatory commissions, the RLDCs and the
SLDCs.
27.      Design of Power Trading Markets. Appropriate market designneed to be developed for
power trading catering to varying requirements for different time durations, different transaction
volumes and different locations, etc.
28.      Early implementation of Open Access at distribution level. Traders have to depend on
Open Access for transfer o f power from supply node to the demand center. While Open Access
has already been granted for inter-state transmission o f power, the last mile(s) linkage through
the distribution network will be introduced ina phasedmanner.
29.      Pricing of Surplus Generation. Surplus generation (beyond the long term PPAs) i s most
easily amenable to trading. Pricing o f this generation should be determined by the markets,
rather than being fixed by regulations            -as was recently proposed. Appropriate pricing o f spare
power is the key to increasing efficient utilization o f capacity in the system and providing the
right incentives for increasedgeneration.

These issues will be considered duringthe life o f the proposedproject and the Bankwill provide
advice and assistance to GoI's various power sector agencies inreaching conclusions on the
outstanding questions and embarking on implementation.




wb80592
M:\INDIA\Power Sys Dev III-P086414\PowerGridI11- PAD Decl5 .doc
12/2012005 10:50:00 AM




                                                             81


