                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR1862



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-4813)



                                      ON A

                      LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION

                                       TO

                   POWER GRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                       (WITH THE GUARANTEE OF INDIA)

                                    FOR THE

                   THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                 January 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Unit
South Asia Region
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
     Fiscal Year Annual Average Exchange Rate1
     2006-07                 41.29
     2007-08                 43.42
     2008-09                 48.36
     2009-10                 45.74

Currency Unit = INR
Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAD           Advance Against Depreciation
AC            Alternating Current
ADB           Asian Development Bank
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CAMPA         Compensatory Afforestation Management and Planning Authority
CEA           Central Electricity Authority
CERC          Central Electricity Regulatory Commission
ckm           circuit kilometer
CSR           Corporate Social Responsibility
CTU           Central Transmission Utility
DC            Direct Current
EHV           Extra-High Voltage
EMP           Environment Management Plan
EMS           Environment Management System
ESMD          Environment and Social Management Department
ERM           Enterprise Risk Management
ERP           Enterprise Resource Planning
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESPP          Environment and Social Policy and Procedures
ESS           Environment and Social Safeguards
FAC           Forest Advisory Committee
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
FEAR          Final Environmental Assessment Report
FM            Financial Management
FPO           Follow-on Public Offer
FRA           Forest Rights Act
FY            Fiscal Year
GoI           Government of India
GIS           Geographical Information System
GW            GigaWatt
Gwh           GigaWatt Hour
HVAC          High-Voltage, Alternating Current
HVDC          High-Voltage, Direct Current
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICRR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEP           Integrated Energy Policy
IEAR          Initial Environmental Assessment Report
IEGC          Indian Electricity Grid Code
IPMCS         Integrated Project Management and Control System
IPO           Initial Public Offer
IPP           Independent Power Producer

1
    „Handbook of Statistics on the Indian Economy‟, Reserve Bank of India, September 2011.
JBIC        Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JV          Joint Venture
km          kilometer
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
kV          kilovolt
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
MoEF        Ministry of Environment and Forests
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MoP         Ministry of Power
MoU         Memorandum of Understanding
MSEB        Maharashtra State Electricity Board
MSETCL      Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Co. Ltd.
MTR         Mid-Term Review
MVA         megavolt ampere
MW          megawatt
MU          Million Unit
NEP         National Electricity Policy
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
NLDC        National Load Despatch Center
NTP         National Tariff Policy
NWTC        North West Transmission Corridor
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAP         Project Affected Person
PAT         Profit After Tax
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PMR         Project Management Report
POSOCO      Power System Operation Corporation Limited
POWERGRID   Power Grid Corporation of India Limited
PSDP        Power System Development Project
PSE         Public Sector Enterprise
PTC         Power Trading Corporation
QER         Quality Enhancement Review
QPR         Quarterly Project Report
R&D         Research and Development
RAP         Rehabilitation Action Plan
RBI         Reserve Bank of India
RGGVY       Rajiv Gandhi GrameenVidyutikaranYojana
RLDC        Regional Load Dispatch Center
ROE         Return on Equity
ROW         right-of-way
SEBI        Securities and Exchange Board of India
SIL         Specific Investment Loan
TA          Technical Assistance
UCS         Use of Country/Borrower Systems
VLPGO       Very Large Power Grid Operator
WRSS II     Western Region System Strengthening Scheme II
                                                            CONTENTS

Section 1: Project/Program Context, Development Objectives, and Design .................................. 1
   1.     Context at Appraisal ...................................................................................................... 1
   2.     Original Project/Program Development Objectives (PDO) ................................................... 2
    3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
       Reasons/Justification .............................................................................................................. 3
   4.     Main Beneficiaries ................................................................................................................. 3
   5.     Original Components ............................................................................................................. 3
   6.     Revised Components.............................................................................................................. 5
   7.     Other Significant Changes ..................................................................................................... 5
Section 2: Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..................................................... 6
   1.     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry .................................................................. 6
   2.     Implementation ...................................................................................................................... 7
   3.     Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization ................................... 8
   4.     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance .................................................................................... 9
   5.     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase ............................................................................... 12
Section 3: Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 13
   1.     Relevance of Project Design and Objectives ....................................................................... 13
   2.     Achievement of Project/Program Development Objectives ................................................ 13
   3.     Efficiency ............................................................................................................................. 14
   4.     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating.............................................................................. 15
   5.     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any)............................................... 16
Section 4: Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................... 17
   1.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................... 17
Section 5: Assessment of World Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................ 18
   1.     Assessment of World Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
   2.     Lessons Learned................................................................................................................... 21
   3.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...................... 22
Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring ................................................................................. 23
Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................................. 24
Annex 3: Outputs by Component..................................................................................................... 26
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................................... 37
Annex 5: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................................ 53
Annex 6: Beneficiary Survey Results .............................................................................................. 55
Annex 7: Terms of Reference for Impact Assessment Study .......................................................... 56
Annex 8: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................................... 57
Annex 9: Summary of Borrower's ICR ............................................................................................ 58
Annex 10: Comments from POWERGRID/Government of India on Draft ICR ............................ 75
Annex 11: Eligibility Criteria for Selection of Candidate Schemes to be Financed under PSDP III
......................................................................................................................................................... 76
Annex 12: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 77
Annex 13: List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 78
Annex 14: Maps ............................................................................................................................... 79
    1. Basic Information
                                                                                Power System
    Country:                India                    Project Name:
                                                                                Development Project III
    Project ID:            P086414                   L/C/TF Number(s):          IBRD-4813
    ICR Date:              August 25, 2011           ICR Type:                   Core ICR
    Lending Instrument:    SIL                       Borrower:                  POWERGRID
    Original Total
    Commitment:            US$400.0 M                Disbursed Amount:          US$400.0 M
    Environmental Category: A
    Implementing Agencies
    Power Grid Corporation of India Limited


2. Key Dates
                                Revised/                                               Revised /
                Original
Process                          Actual           Process            Original Date          Actual
                 Date
                                 Date(s)                                                    Date(s)
Concept        04/16/2004       06/07/2004      Effectiveness:    05/31/2006           12/15/2006
Review:
Appraisal:     01/19/2005       01/19/2005      Restructuring(s): N.A.
Approval:      01/19/2006       01/19/2006      Mid-term Review: 12/31/2008             04/12/2010
                                                Closing:          07/31/2011            07/31/2011

    3. Ratings Summary
    3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
    Outcomes:                                            Highly Satisfactory
    Risk to Development Outcome:                         Low or Negligible
    Bank Performance:                                    Satisfactory
    Borrower Performance:                                Satisfactory

    3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation Performance       Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)                Rating:
    Potential Problem Project at any
                                     No           Quality at Entry (QEA):                 None
    time (Yes/No):
    Problem Project at any time
    (Yes/No):                        No           Quality of Supervision (QSA):           None
    DO rating before                 Satisfactory
    Closing/Inactive status:

    4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original             Actual
    Sector Code (as % of total World Bank financing)
    Power                                                                     100             100
                                                                 Original Priority Actual Priority
    Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
    Infrastructure services for private sector development        Primary             Primary
                                                     1
Regulation and competition policy                   Secondary       Secondary
Other financial and private sector development      Secondary       Secondary
Climate change                                      Secondary       Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health       Secondary       Secondary

5. Bank Staff
Positions                            At ICR                At Approval
Vice President:                     Isabel Guerrero      Praful Patel
Country Director:                   N. Roberto Zagha     Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:                     Jyoti Shukla         Penelope J. Brook
Project Team Leader:                Kwawu Mensan Gaba    Sunil K. Khosla
ICR Team Leader:                    Surbhi Goyal         N.A.
ICR Primary Author:                  Ahmed El-Hamri      N.A.




                                             2
Section 1: Project/Program Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1. Context at Appraisal
CAS/Support from the Bank:

    Country Background: The project, Power System Development Project III (PSDP III), was
    developed within the framework of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (2004-07) with its
    objectives aligned with India‟s 10th Five Year plan (2002-07). The strategic principles of the CAS
    provided the underpinning of the World Bank‟s assistance to the Indian power sector as it was
    (and continues to be) considered a key sector whose poor performance has crippling effects on
    India‟s ability to achieve its economic growth and poverty reduction objectives. Binding
    constraints on the sector consisted of limited grid integration, a deficit in power sector capacity
    and severe power shortages as peak load shortages reached 12.1 percent and energy shortages 7.2
    percent (in 2005)2 resulting in substantial losses to the economy. In addition, given the low level
    of electricity access (44.2 percent of households lacked access) at the time of appraisal,
    Government of India‟s (GoI) goal of universal access by 2012 required sizable additions to
    generation capacity, transmission and distribution networks. The provision of adequate
    infrastructure being paramount to India‟s socioeconomic development objectives, this project was
    supporting GoI‟s continuous efforts to provide an adequate power generation, transmission and
    distribution infrastructure.

    Sector Background: Large investments in additional transmission capacity were deemed essential
    if power availability was not to constrain India's capacity for rapid growth. Furthermore, the
    capacity and efficient operation of the transmission segment was critical to the success of
    investments in other sectors, including those essential for the creation of employment and income.
    The principal responsibility for grid strengthening and increase in interstate power transmission
    capacity rests with the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (POWERGRID), the
    government-owned central transmission utility (CTU). In recent years, there has been a manifold
    increase in POWERGRID‟s investments in its infrastructure to improve the performance of the
    existing network as well as provide the much needed capacity to transfer electricity from surplus
    regions to deficit ones. These actions were taken in tandem with the passage of the Electricity Act
    2003 which had opened the way for competition in power transmission and distribution, power
    trading and market development, and new providers of power supply in rural areas.

    Rationale for World Bank Involvement: The World Bank‟s overall strategy for the power sector
    in India continues to focus on fostering the transition of the sector towards a low(er) carbon
    development path through the financing of relevant public investments while, simultaneously,
    promoting policies and regulatory measures for private sector participation. This engagement was
    an offshoot of the long-term strategic partnership that the World Bank had with POWERGRID
    since its inception in 1989. PSDP III loan formed an important part of the engagement strategy
    with POWERGRID that facilitated it in timely achievement of its investment plans and hence,
    contributing towards development of the National Grid to transfer power from surplus to deficit
    regions. The investment in transmission infrastructure has facilitated the establishment of
    generation plans in the resource rich areas and the evacuation of this power to the load centers
    located far away from these generation plants. Moreover, POWERGRID being a key player in the
    sector and an operator of the National and Regional Load Despatch Centres has contributed
    significantly to the policies for open access. The project was built on a successful partnership with
    an organization that being CTU of India is vital for the development of its power sector.



2
    In 2011, the system‟s average peak deficit was about 10.3 percent and average energy deficit was about 8.5 percent
                                                              1
    A series of direct loans to POWERGRID (amounting to about US$3.2 billion3) under a program
    level engagement addressed structural and institutional constraints existing in the transmission
    subsector and created conditions to optimize sector development. This investment support to
    POWERGRID also aimed at improving the outcome-orientation and service delivery of
    POWERGRID, by: (i) facilitating higher economic use of generation resources and harnessing
    low carbon primary energy sources such as hydropower and wind that are unevenly distributed;
    (ii) providing optimal integration of all regions and greater grid stability; (iii) establishing the
    open access regime mandated in the Electricity Act 2003; and (iv) facilitating the development of
    a power trading market within the country and, wherever feasible, with India's neighbors. Over
    time, POWERGRID has emerged as a globally recognized transmission utility through
    consistently improving upon its institutional capacity across technical, procurement, social,
    environment, and financial management aspects. POWERGRID now operates one of the largest
    transmission networks in the world and is sharing its expertise through international consulting
    and construction services for transmission projects in South Asia (Afghanistan, Nepal, and Sri
    Lanka) and in Africa (Kenya, and Nigeria).

    Programmatic lending support to POWERGRID has contributed to the development of high-
    capacity transmission corridors which increased the interregional capacity of the National Grid
    from 1,500 megawatt (MW) in 1999 to 9,500 MW in 2006 and, correspondingly, significantly
    expanded the network of transmission lines from 35,119 circuit kilometer (ckm) to 55,121 ckm. In
    2005-06, at the time of PSDP III preparation, the interregional transmission capacity facilitated
    energy exchange of almost 35,000 Million Units (MU) across India, with 20,000 MU or 57
    percent being transferred through three interregional lines financed by the World Bank (PSDP II).
    This is equivalent to offsetting the need for 6,800 MW of new generation capacity.4 The World
    Bank‟s current CAS (2009-12) for India reaffirms the same priorities and programs with the
    power infrastructure at the core of project financing, especially in light of capital and Foreign
    Direct Investment (FDI) shortages resulting from the economic and financial crises of 2008 and
    2011. Investments in the power sector aim at building upon the achievements of previous power
    projects, including those dedicated to energy generation and transmission. In financing PDSP III,
    the World Bank reaffirmed its commitment to a long-term partnership to support critical
    investments in the transmission segment.

Project Description
2. Original Project/Program Development Objectives (PDO)

As this project was part of a long-term investment and infrastructure upgrading program, it
logically followed the achievement of PSDP I and PSDP II that focused on the continuous
enhancement of POWERGRID‟s technical capacity and physical infrastructure. The objective of
this project was to strengthen the transmission system in order to increase reliable power
exchanges between the regions and states of India. To achieve this objective, the project focused
on: (i) strengthening the transmission system in power deficit regions and increasing interregional
transmission capacity; and (ii) developing POWERGRID‟s institutional capacity by building the
tools to facilitate the implementation of open access and interregional trading.




3
  PSDP I in 1993 (US$ 350 million), PSDP II in 2001 (US$ 450 million), PSDP III in 2006 (US$ 400 million), PSDP IV
and additional financing in 2008 (US$ 1,000 million), and PSDP V in 2010 (US$ 1,000 million).
4
  Refer „Highways of Power - Story of the Second POWERGRID System Development Project‟, the World Bank
publication.
                                                           2
       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
    PDO                                                              Outcome Indicators
    To strengthen the transmission system in order to increase       Growth in power exchange between the
    reliable power exchanges between the regions and states.         regions – MU
    Intermediate Results                                             Results Indicators for Each Component
    (One per Component)
    Component One: Transmission system strengthening                 Growth in transmission capacity - ckm
    (investments and relevant technical support)                     Growth in transformation capacity -
                                                                     megavolt ampere (MVA)
    Component Two: Completion of balance works of the                Completion of National Load Dispatch
    schemes financed by the World Bank under loan 4603-IN for        Center (NLDC)
    POWERGRID System Development Project II beyond the
    loan closing date of June 30, 2006

3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
   Reasons/Justification

The project objectives were not revised. While there were no significant changes to the project
itself, other developments (as described below) influenced the overall engagement and structuring
of supervision and Mid-Term Review (MTR) missions. The only outcome indicator for the project,
growth in power exchange between the regions, outperformed its end year targets5. Thus, the KPIs
were rated satisfactory in terms of implementation progress. In addition to the above outcome
indicator, three intermediate indicators were also monitored. The first such indicator
(transformation capacity) also outperformed its end year target6. The second indicator
(transmission capacity) outperformed all the targets for intermediate years but due to delays caused
by GoI‟s notification regarding the Forest Rights Act (FRA) in August 2009 (factors outside the
control of POWERGRID), the end-year targets was revised by 4.7 percent7 during the mid-term
review (MTR) to reflect the impacts of the delays on results on the ground. The third one linked to
the completion of the NLDC was also successfully met during the project implementation period.

4. Main Beneficiaries

POWERGRID was the borrower and the direct beneficiary of the PSDP III loan. The loan
provided resources and funds for investments needed by POWERGRID to undertake the physical
expansion of the transmission system while simultaneously improving its technical, financial and
institutional capacity to enhance the transfer of energy across regions and reduce transmission
costs, system losses and unserved energy.

Since POWERGRID is the CTU of India, the benefits of the various projects/schemes are extended
to the various transmission and distribution utilities at the state level as well as to the independent
power producers (IPP), which could rely on a strong network to allow them to fully benefit from
the open access regime that was mandated by the Electricity Act 2003.

5. Original Components


5
  Target: 52,000 MU; actual: 56,747 MU
6
  Target: 85,000 MVA; actual: 93,050 MVA
7
  End year target was revised from 84,000 ckm to 80,000 ckm during MTR. The actual end year achievement for this
indicator was 82,355 ckm.

                                                         3
PSDP III (US$400 million) was designed to contribute to the financing of POWERGRID‟s
investment program totaling US$1.043 billion for the 2006-11 period (as per the project appraisal
document (PAD) for PSDP III). Specifically, the loan supported the implementation of the
following project components:

Project Component One: Transmission System Strengthening Schemes (base cost of US$797
million). The schemes under the loan were categorized as „core schemes‟ that were identified at the
time of appraisal and were advanced in the implementation cycle; and „candidate schemes‟ that
were to be taken up subsequently. The core schemes identified during the appraisal are:

a. Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad transmission system
   The works consisted of:
   Transmission lines (financed under PSDP III)
    From Seoni to Wardha 765 kilovolt (kV) single circuit (initially to be operated at 400 kV) –
     on a distance of 269 ckm
    From Wardha to Akola 400 kV double circuit on a distance of 324 ckm
    From Akola to Aurangabad 400 kV double circuit on a distance of 482 ckm
   Substations (financed under PSDP III)
    A new 400/220 kV Wardha substation (with a provision to upgrade to 765 kV)
    The extensions of 400/220 kV at Seoni, Akola and Aurangabad substations

b. ±500kV, 2500 MW Balia-Bhiwadi high-voltage, direct current (HVDC) transmission
    system
   The works consisted of:
   Transmission lines (financed under PSDP III)
    From Balia to Bhiwadi ±500kV, 2,500 MW HVDC bipole line on a distance of 1,580 ckm
   Substations (initially proposed to be financed under PSDP III but to match commissioning of
   the associated generation projects, these were later financed under PSDP IV)
    HVDC terminal for 2,500 MW at Balia along with associated works
    HVDC terminal for 2,500 MW at Bhiwadi along with associated works

c. Seoni-Bina 765 kV single circuit transmission link
   The works consisted of:
    A Transmission line (financed under PSDP III) from Seoni to Bina. This was a 765 kV
     single circuit line (initially to be operated at 400 kV) on a distance of 293 ckm.
    Substations (initially proposed to be financed under PSDP III but later financed by
     POWERGRID’s own resources): the extensions of the 400/220 kV substation at Seoni and
     of the 400/220 kV substation at Bina.

d. Candidate Schemes: A number of potential schemes were tentatively identified and
   included after project effectiveness, taking advantage of cost savings during
   implementation. Such schemes were eligible for IBRD financing provided the project
   implementation plans (PIP) submitted by POWERGRID established that these schemes
   met the eligibility criteria (Annex 11) for financing under this project. The World Bank
   reviewed the process followed by POWERGRID in identification and planning of the
   least-cost technical and economic options for each of the "core" schemes in this time slice
   and endorsed the eligibility criteria for "candidate" schemes in agreement with
   POWERGRID. These eligibility criteria also included steps that POWERGRID needed to
   follow for adequate social and environmental safeguards while planning and
   implementation of these schemes. The following two candidate schemes were included
   during project implementation and their work consisted of:
                                                4
        The North-West Transmission Corridor (NWTC) that included the Agra-Gwalior
        second circuit 765 kV transmission line (initially to be operated at 400 kV) (128 ckm)
        and the Kankroli-Zerda 400 kV double circuit transmission line (470 ckm). Extensions
        of 400/220 kV substations at Agra, Gwalior, Zerda and Kankroli were funded under
        PSDP IV; and

        Western Region System Strengthening Scheme-II (WRSS II) that included the
        Bina-Gwalior 765 kV second single circuit transmission line (initially to be operated at
        400 kV) on a distance of 233 ckm.

Some of the lines were established to operate at 765 kV voltage level whereas they were to be
charged initially at 400 kV voltage level. POWERGRID‟s rationale for such planning was to
proactively address right-of-way (ROW) and construction issues, and erect transmission lines
whose charging at a higher voltage level was to be done at a later stage. Higher charging was
anticipated over a relatively shorter timeframe because of the significant load growth and the
commissioning of a large number of new generation plants over the next two Five Year plans.

Technical Assistance for POWERGRID: A provision for a technical assistance (TA), as part of
project component one, was retained at the appraisal with the objective of assisting POWERGRID
in strengthening its institutional capacity, if the need were to arise based on the complexity of the
technology to adopt for the transmission networks. It was further agreed that the selection of TA
to be financed under PSDP III was to depend on the availability of alternative grant finance, an
option preferred by POWERGRID and GoI. Given this context, POWERGRID decided to
finance the relevant TA studies through its own resources.

Project Component Two: This consisted of the completion of the PSDP II project and its
estimated cost was US$75 million. The final utilization against this component was US$30.26
million. PSDP III provided funding for the: (i) completion of the NLDC; and (ii) construction
of transmission lines, substations and purchase of system equipment, initiated under PSDP II
and whose completion occurred after its closing date of June 30, 2006. This component was
also eligible to finance balance payments, if any, from PSDP II. The following works were
taken up under PSDP III against this component:
     (i) Eastern Region System Coordination and Control Project – completed in June 2005;
     (ii) Western Region System Coordination and Control Project – completed in August
          2005;
     (iii) System Strengthening-III in Southern Region Grid – completed in April 2007;
     (iv) High Capacity East-North Interconnector-II – completed in August 2007;
     (v) POWERGRID‟S Diversification into Telecom Business – completed; and
     (vi) NLDC – completed in March 2009.

6.   Revised Components

The project‟s original components were not revised.

7. Other Significant Changes

The loan was appraised in January 2005, approved in January 2006, signed in May 2006 and
became effective on December 15, 2006. The MTR was carried out during April 12-23, 2010.
The World Bank and the borrower agreed during the appraisal of PSDP IV, which had become
effective on March 28, 2008 (nine months before the original MTR date), to hold a common
MTR for PSDP III and PSDP IV. During the MTR, an implementation support mission for
                                                 5
PSDP V, that became effective on January 8, 2010, was also undertaken. These three projects
(PSDP III, PSDP IV and PSDP V) have the same PDO, support the same entity/sector and are
structurally linked.

Section 2: Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

   a. Soundness of the Background Analysis: POWERGRID‟s satisfactory achievements and
   learning experience resulting from the implementation of PSDP I and PSDP II had a positive
   impact on the preparatory process of the project. Continuous and sound sector review by the
   World Bank resulted in an identification of key aspects specific to the project design.
   Furthermore, the preparation and appraisal phases benefited from a Quality Enhancement
   Review (QER) that took place in October 2004. In reviewing the sector strategy and the
   project‟s PDO, the QER panel endorsed the World Bank‟s rationale and agreed that, for the
   proposed project, the PDO needed to be focused on the planned investments under this project.
   The concept of „candidate‟ scheme, based on eligibility criteria, was also founded on sound
   principles under which any scheme could qualify for financing after its due diligence.

   b. Assessment of the Project Design: POWERGRID‟s strong technical design capability,
   including the establishment of a Research and Development (R&D) department and excellent
   collaboration with the Central Electricity Authority (CEA, technical regulatory institution of
   GoI) for the power system planning studies, and its extensive operational experience were very
   effective in determining the types and voltage levels required for the transmission network
   development. For instance, planning relevant sections of the new transmission network at
   higher voltage and capacity to efficiently meet the growing demand that is scattered across the
   country while proactively addressing ROW problems demonstrates POWERGRID‟s visionary
   acumen. The use of eligibility criteria (refer Annex 11) to identify investments as well as
   financing mechanisms for transmission schemes was an appropriate analytical tool adapted to
   carry out project design. By applying these criteria, POWERGRID ensured that the investment
   scheme was technically and operationally justified and had been formulated after taking into
   account other alternative investments. Furthermore, the scheme had to be based on the least-
   cost options and was part of POWERGRID‟s overall least-cost investment program. In
   addition, the project‟s schemes were economically and financially justified. The eligibility
   criteria were discussed at length with the World Bank team during the appraisal. One point to
   note here is that the effectiveness of the project was delayed by almost six months (from July
   31, 2006 to December 15, 2006) due to the time taken by POWERGRID to prepare a financial
   security package to comply with the negative pledge clause in the loan agreement. Even
   though project effectiveness was delayed, the project successfully met its PDO and
   outperformed its outcome indicator (growth in power exchange across regions).

   c. Adequacy of Government’s Commitment: Another key factor that contributed to the
   effective implementation of the project was a strong project ownership by the borrower and
   GoI. POWERGRID‟s commitment to the project as well as its extensive experience and close
   working relationship with the World Bank facilitated the analytical and preparatory work
   during the project‟s preparation and appraisal phases. Early preparation, started during PSDP
   II, provided valuable insight into issues to be resolved by both parties. Furthermore, the use of
   the eligibility criteria ensured the stakeholders‟ and government‟s commitment to the project.
   GoI‟s commitment to the project translated into institutional measures and actions that were
   needed for project implementation within the parameters of sector growth in terms of
                                                6
    transmission capacity development and institutional stakeholders and civil society at the state
    level. These actions also included the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission‟s (CERC‟s)
    regulations and the operationalization of the NLDC8, an essential institution for transmission
    and power exchanges.

    d. Assessment of Risks: The overall risk rating for project implementation was low/medium.
    Specific risks for the implementation of key investments were rated low. To mitigate these
    risks, mostly foreseen delays in implementing the project‟s schemes, advance procurement
    action was taken for the investments before the first year of the project. Moreover,
    POWERGRID has demonstrated its ability to plan and implement complex investments on
    time and to cost. Other risks were also identified and these included risks for financial
    performance (low), tariffs (low/medium), institutional development (low), commercial aspects
    (low/medium), open access (medium), and inadequate implementation of safeguards (low).
    The mitigation measures consisted of actions and measures that were directly relevant to
    POWERGRID‟s operations and could be put in place by POWERGRID, such as compliance
    with financial covenants, arrears payments, and safeguards compliance. Other measures to be
    implemented by GoI institutions in tandem with POWERGRID, such as approval of tariffs,
    continued institutional development and implementation of the open access regime were to be
    subject to continuous dialog with the World Bank and other stakeholders to prevent any
    adverse impact. Furthermore, there were no controversial aspects related to this project and no
    major social or environmental issues had been anticipated in POWERGRID‟s operations.

2. Implementation

The implementation of the project components and utilization of the loan proceeds were
satisfactory. POWERGRID as well as GoI were instrumental in ensuring that project
implementation was successful and that all components were completed on time and became
operational within the expected timeline. The transmission schemes in this project had been
designed, engineered and implemented by POWERGRID, and local and foreign contractors
carried out supply and installation works. The implementation arrangements, as described in
the PAD, also included the use of the practices institutionalized under the previous loans,
including institutional oversight by the Ministry of Power (MoP) and the Ministry of Finance
(MoF), in addition to regular portfolio reviews with the World Bank. The CEA had also
contributed to this project in terms of sector planning, as noted earlier. The CERC was
responsible for tariff formulation and notification as well as sectoral regulation at the central
level. On the ground, the implementation of this project benefited from the technical capability
of POWERGRID and its past experience in World Bank-financed projects.

In addition to adherence to the World Bank procurement guidelines, POWERGRID's
managerial, operational culture and project management allowed for an effective monitoring of
implementation. The use of Integrated Project Management and Control System (IPMCS)
and the project unit‟s planning and problem-solving capability were instrumental in addressing
and solving problems as they occurred.

Close supervision by the World Bank team with day-to-day responsibilities fully delegated to
Delhi-based staff, who benefitted from an excellent relationship with and effective support by
POWERGRID‟s staff at field offices, also contributed to an efficient monitoring of project
components and timely completion of the project. Both parties ensured that supervision

8
 As per GoI‟s directive, since October 2010, the entire system operation that includes NLDC and all the RLDCs is now
operated and managed by a fully owned subsidiary of POWERGRID known as Power System Operation Corporation
Limited (POSOCO) that was constituted in March 2009. POSOCO became fully functional from October 2010.
                                                             7
focused on resolving key project implementation issues, including physical imp lementation of
transmission schemes and compliance with environmental and social safeguards (issues of
forestry clearance and resettlement), financial performance and arrears collection objectives.
The World Bank carried out a total of seven implementation support missions, including site
visits.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design: Arrangements for M&E of the project consisted
of targets that were linked to the completion of the transmission schemes and their impacts
over a given timeframe. In addition, the design of the M&E framework was intended to
provide a comprehensive view on POWERGRID‟s performance from every aspect. Moreover,
indicators additional to KPIs and covenanted targets were also agreed upon with the World
Bank to objectively measure improvements in power sector performance as well as
POWERGRID's corporate performance. POWERGRID demonstrated satisfactory performance
through successfully meeting all legal and financial covenants, outperforming the outcome
indicator for the project, robust financial performance at the entity level and sound operational
parameters. Moreover, listing of POWERGRID on the Indian Stock Exchange introduced
external monitoring checks on the company, ensuring efficient implementation of its
investments, which was the objective of monitoring additional indicators under the project.
Hence, given POWERGRID‟s satisfactory performance in achieving and reporting such
indicators, these were decided to be discontinued during the MTR. The M&E framework also
included actual baseline data (for 2005) and focused on annual monitoring and regular
reporting of the progress in achievement of PDOs and project outputs. The targets for
completion of investment projects consisted of physical achievements as well as their impacts
on the performance of the transmission system.

During the MTR, gaps in achieving the transmission capacity targets (ckm) due to factors
beyond the control of POWERGRID were noted. Although this indicator outperformed its
intermediate targets, its end year targets were revised downwards by 4.7% (from 84,000 ckm
to 80,000ckm) during the MTR due to right-of-way (ROW) issues and delays in obtaining
forest clearances, especially after notification of GoI regarding the FRA, in August 2009.
Under the FRA, POWERGRID is required to take no-objection from elected stakeholders and
officials at the village level for all the proposals involving diversion of forest land under the
Forest (Conservation) Act. In view of such external factors, adjustments to the indicator were
made on the understanding that the end year targets for the active PSDP V (closing date in
FY2015), the most recent engagement with POWERGRID with the same PDO and KPIs as
PSDP III, would not be revised and remain achievable by POWERGRID.

M&E Implementation: Data collection adhered to the PAD guidelines and the borrower
information system. The data collected for progress achieved on the outcome (growth in power
exchange) and outputs indicators (transmission and transformation capacities) were monitored
through an agreed reporting format. The IPMCS provided POWERGRID with real-time
monitoring of physical installation of transmission lines and the NLDC (now operated and
managed by POSOCO) provided continuous monitoring and data for power exchanges and
transfers. POWERGRID established and provided the World Bank with a monthly report on
billing and collection, quarterly progress monitoring reports, quarterly financial management
reports, annual information about progress on key entity and sectoral performance indicators,
audited annual financial statements (within six months of the end of each financial year), and
such other information as the World Bank required. These arrangements did work in a
satisfactory manner under the project and were replicated in future projects (PSDP IV and
PSDP V) as well. In addition, the World Bank team periodically conducted site visits, to
                                                8
monitor compliance with environmental and social safeguards, and engage in discussions
regarding benefits achieved from the investments. The World Bank team also interacted
regularly with various project stakeholders including MoP, MoF, CERC and the Power
Trading Corporation (PTC), which have a keen interest in seeing a sustained and high
performance from POWERGRID.

M&E Utilization: In addition to POWERGRID‟s own scoreboard that provided decision
makers with a retrospective analysis on performance and inputs for planning purposes, it
produced and submitted to the World Bank for review the Quarterly Project Report (QPR),
containing M&E data. The quarterly reports resulted in discussions on all aspects of the
project ranging from procurement, engineering, safeguards and finance to the corporate
monitoring group. These reports also provided a close monitoring of covenanted targets such
as the debt-equity ratio, self-financing ratio and payment of arrears. In addition to financial
performance evaluation, the technical data reporting mechanism also provided valuable
information to CERC, MoP, MoF, and PTC.

4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental and Social Safeguards (ESS): PSDP III was rated “Category A? on
environmental safeguards management. Aspects linked to the ESS associated with the project
have been addressed in accordance with the corporate Environment and Social Policy and
Procedures (ESPP) developed by POWERGRID in 1998 and revised from time to time. The
corporate ESPP is in compliance with the World Bank's safeguards policies and its provisions
are systematically applied to all POWERGRID projects regardless of the source of financing.
The ESPP outlines POWERGRID's approach and commitment to deal with ESS issues relating
to its transmission schemes and lays out management procedures to address them. The ESPP
provides POWERGRID with a framework for identification, assessment and management of
ESS concerns at both organizational as well as field levels. Capacity building in the
Environmental and Social Management Department (ESMD) of POWERGRID contributed
significantly in the update of the corporate ESPP in 2005, which also benefitted from the
review of the legal and institutional framework, analysis of priority issues (gap analysis) in the
power transmission sector and wide ranging discussions including national and regional
consultations. The ESPP was further updated in 2009 to meet the requirements of the new
policies, revised rules and guidelines including those of multilateral funding agencies and to
adopt international best practices to preempt all possible safeguards issues. During this
revision, even wider stakeholder consultations, including with project affected people (PAPs)
and local communities, were carried out. The revised ESPP was adopted by the World Bank as
a pilot for Use of Country Systems (UCS) (OP 4.00) under PSDP V. The World Bank also
provided guidance and support to POWERGRID in formulating its policy on Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) that is now being implemented by POWERGRID across the country.

The safeguards process followed during the preparation and appraisal stages of a scheme under
the project included the preparation of an Initial Environmental Assessment Report (IEAR) for
these transmission schemes. These IEARs were reviewed by the World Bank and the
comments were taken into account in the Final Environmental Assessment Report (FEAR).
The World Bank team had also recommended actions for further strengthening the
environmental management practices through: (i) designation and assignment of
environmental management specialists in the field and regional offices to assist with
implementation and reporting of Environment Management Plan (EMP) implementation at
POWERGRID; (ii) undertaking of the yearly Independent Environmental Audit of a sample of
transmission lines and substations; and (iii) preparation of sustainability reports (prepared once
every two years). In addition, POWERGRID implemented specific actions to improve
                                                9
implementation monitoring, such as tracking and collating information on actual compensatory
afforestation on the ground; updating of statutory clearances from the State Pollution Control
Board; extending application of the integrated Environment Management System (EMS) to
regional headquarters and project locations; and strengthening environmental training and
capacity building.

In full cognizance of social issues, POWERGRID ensures that its projects do not result in
physical displacement of the local population. The same principles were followed for PSDP III
as well. Where land appropriation was required, ESPP detailed out the process to be followed
during the preparation and appraisal stages of a scheme under the project. This included
undertaking social assessment of areas impacted by substations (where appropriation of land
was involved) and preparation of a Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP). These RAPs also
included community development activities to help improve the socioeconomic status of the
communities living in the vicinity of the substations. In addition, these communities were
provided access to wage employment opportunities (including small contracts, particularly
during operation and maintenance (O&M) of substations) both in the construction and
operation of the substation. Under PSDP III, social assessment and preparation of RAP was
done for Wardha substation. This approach was reviewed by the World Bank and supervised
during implementation. Besides the regular monitoring of the RAP implementation by the
ESMD, an external agency was engaged to undertake an impact assessment (refer Annex 7 for
Terms of Reference) to assess the effectiveness of the RAP implementation and especially that
of the community development works. The impact assessment undertaken, so far, of the RAP
implementation has revealed an improvement of the socioeconomic status of a majority of the
affected people, reflecting intensive and focused efforts being made by POWERGRID.

Issues related to the implementation of FEAR provisions concerning compliance with the
Forest (Conservation) Act (beyond the control of POWERGRID) and of RAP: Although
POWERGRID‟s safeguards policies provide for appropriate actions and compensations, in the
case of afforestation, forest clearances need to be approved by the Ministry of Environment
and Forests (MoEF). These applications generally take a long time to be reviewed and
approved by MoEF on the recommendation of the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC). As this
process had been suspended during the period starting October 2006 to October 2007, when
the Supreme Court had halted the constitution of FAC, no forest proposals were processed for
approval. This resulted in delaying the FEAR submission dates and, consequently, also
delayed works for the transmission lines by about two to three years (though none of the lines
under PSDP III were substantially impacted). Further, the implementation of the RAP was
delayed due to the prolonged process involved in acquiring land and extending resettlement
entitlements to affected people by the local district administration. The impleme ntation of the
community development component of the RAP was also unduly delayed due to staffing
constraints faced by POWERGRID at the regional level for following up with the district
administration. Towards the end of 2008, the rating for overall safeguard compliance was
downgraded to moderately satisfactory, partly due to external factors and partly due to
POWERGRID. To improve safeguards performance, POWERGRID was advised to strengthen
its ESMD. In response, POWERGRID started taking measures to strengthen its ESMD both at
its Head Office and at regional offices to manage ESS concerns of the projects. On
environmental issues, the focus was on two specific aspects related to forests: (i) coordination
with MoEF to reduce delays in obtaining clearances under the Forest (Conservation) Act; and
(ii) coordination with the recently formed state-level Compensatory Afforestation Management
and Planning Authorities (CAMPAs) to monitor the plantations to be carried out as part of
compensation. In parallel, POWERGRID, through MoP, requested MoEF to streamline the
clearance process under the Forest (Conservation) Act. The decision is still under review by
MoEF.
                                               10
On social issues, the main concern was reaching an agreement with the district administration
on compensation norms that were acceptable to PAPs. POWERGRID started working on
alternatives to the regular land acquisition process, including „consent award,‟ and
demonstrated its success in Raichur substation (under PSDP V). Given the actions taken by
POWERGRID, the rating was upgraded to satisfactory in early 2011.

Corporate Governance and Financial Management (FM): As a part of the exercise to
benchmark itself with major international companies in the transmission industry,
POWERGRID requested the World Bank in 2006 to conduct a financial accountability review
and an analysis of its corporate governance. The report concluded that POWERGRID's FM
arrangements ranked suitably with peers in India. However, to become globally competitive,
there was a need to enhance financial accountability and corporate governance norms . As part
of the preparation for the PSDP III loan, an action plan was agreed upon to further build
POWERGRID‟s institutional FM capacity (in the areas of financial accountability,
transparency, corporate governance and internal controls), and it was implemented with
excellent results. This enabled POWERGRID to tap into equity markets by making an Initial
Public Offer (IPO) in the Indian equity markets and meet the required corporate governance
norms as laid out in the Listing Agreement with the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(SEBI) in a timely manner. FM arrangements under PSDP III were implemented in a
satisfactory manner. POWERGRID‟s FM systems were considered to accurately account and
report on the project resources and expenditures under the various projects financed by the
World Bank. POWERGRID‟s FM systems (housed as a part of its general accounting and
financial systems) generated financial and other quarterly progress reports on the project. The
reporting framework for the project included a quarterly Project Management Report (PMR),
an equivalent of the interim unaudited financial report, prepared by POWERGRID in an
agreed format with the World Bank (detailed in the Project Implementation Plan). PMRs were
prepared from information generated by POWERGRID's FM system and Management
Information System (MIS) and rated satisfactory. POWERGRID strengthened its FM
capabilities during its partnership with the World Bank and was able to enhance the financial
accountability and transparency of its operations. The FM performance under previous loans
was also rated satisfactory.

Issues and Improvements to the FM System: In mid-2009, for a brief period, the rating for
FM was downgraded to moderately satisfactory by the World Bank due to issues in the project
audit (regarding the need for enhancing the terms of reference of audits and submission of the
management letter). POWERGRID undertook corrective measures and continued to fine tune
its FM system by strengthening its internal audit framework and the role of the audit
committee to reach the levels of its international counterparts. As part of strengthening its FM
capacity, a new computerized FM system was rolled out at all the units. In mid-2010, the
rating was then upgraded to fully satisfactory as substantial improvements were noted in terms
of undertaking operational audits (a unique concept that has now been mainstreamed across the
organization), initiation of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) across the company,
strengthening of the internal audit department and undertaking of the Enterprise Risk
Management (ERM) exercise (Refer Annex 7 of PAD for details on FM arrangements).
POWERGRID constituted a high-level team consisting of experts from finance, technical,
contracts, and operations departments to carry out operational audits of selected schemes in a
holistic manner to review and verify overall satisfactory administration of contracts in
accordance with the contract documents.

Procurement: Procurement under PSDP III was generally satisfactory with no major issues
faced during the implementation, though one of the contracts (a spillover of a PSDP II contract
funded under PSDP III) was referred to Integrity Vice-Presidency (INT) of the World Bank.
                                               11
The pace of procurement activities was in accordance with the project implementation
schedule. Some of the schemes under the project were either uniquely positioned or related to
an emerging transmission technology in India.9 Based on the World Bank‟s Standard Bidding
Documents, the World Bank team worked together with POWERGRID in preparing various
sections of POWERGRID‟s bidding documents for different schemes. This facilitated
POWERGRID in improving its bidding documents under World Bank funding and
harmonizing such bidding documents for procurement using its own resources.10

Although POWERGRID had initially said that it had some concerns over using the new
guidelines for evaluation of the bids under “supply and installation? contracts, the issue was
resolved and procurement proceeded in a satisfactory manner, consistent with the World
Bank‟s procurement guidelines. The Procurement Plan was prepared during appraisal and
bidding documents for all the packages under the core schemes were ready by negotiation.
Furthermore, as a step towards increasing transparency, POWERGRID had launched a section
on procurement on their corporate website, where all active tenders are being posted .

5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Investments financed by the loan were successfully and progressively commissioned between
2009 and 2011, were integrated with the National Grid and their operation is being
continuously monitored and maintained by POWERGRID. The NLDC was also completed in
March 2009 and started commercial operation in April 2009. It is now operated and managed
by POSOCO, a fully owned subsidiary of POWERGRID. POWERGRID‟s technical and
managerial capabilities oversee all specialized areas of the power transmission business, and
its infrastructure moves about 50 percent of the total power generated in India through 82,355
ckm of transmission lines (as of March 2011), 135 Extra-High Voltage (EHV) and HVDC
substations and controls a transformation capacity of about 93,050 MVA. During FY 2010-11,
POWERGRID‟s inter-regional capacity of National Grid stood at 22,400 MW (later increased
to 23,800 MW in July 2011) facilitating an inter-regional energy exchange of 56,747 MU.
Operational capacity allows the company to achieve a transmission system availability of 99.8
percent (FY2011) and its maintenance capacity contains the number of tripping per line at 1.27
against a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), signed with GoI for FY2011, target of 2.5.
The preventive maintenance program ensures that equipment condition is assessed periodically
using condition assessment techniques. These activities are planned well in advance through
the implementation of annual maintenance plans. For further improvement in operational
efficiency, a „National Transmission Asset Management Center‟ is being established to control
and operate most of the substations remotely and the establishment of a „Maintenance Service
Hub‟ facility has commenced, which caters to the maintenance needs of a group of substations
rather than placing staff in each substation. This will ensure optimal utilization of manpower
and resources and will also reduce the response time in case of faults and breakdowns.

In line with the latest CAS (2009-12), and through a series of additional loans to
POWERGRID (PSDP IV and PSDP V) and other sector entities, the World Bank shall
continue to support the ongoing sector reform agenda and further strengthen POWERGRID's

9
  For example, the Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC Bipole Transmission System at ±500 kV voltage level, transferring 2,500 MW,
was a unique project of its kind considering the complexity of procurement of the HVDC Terminal Package. Similarly,
some of the packages involved procurement of 765 kV equipment, which was an emerging voltage level in the
transmission system in India at that time.
10
   For instance, during the initial period of the project, POWERGRID often observed inconsistencies across the various
sections of the bids submitted by the bidders resulting in problems in ascertaining the responsiveness of the bids. With
the concurrence of the World Bank, POWERGRID incorporated a provision on „Order of Preference‟ to address this
concern.
                                                              12
institutional and transmission capacities, to align with the standards of global operators. As a
matter of fact, POWERGRID belongs to the selective group of Very Large Power Grid
Operators (VLPGO), which is a voluntary initiative of the world‟s largest Power Grid
Operators, representing together more than 60 percent of the electricity demand in the world.
VLPGO was created in 2004, following several blackouts across the world, to investigate
fundamental issues of common interest to its members and to develop joint action plans
addressing the improvement of power system security. In 2009, VLPGO became a formal
organization, with the aim of serving as leader and catalyst in the transition of the electric
power industry to the power grids of the 21st century. Further, the World Bank Group is
assisting POWERGRID to leverage international financial markets to fund its 12th Five Year
plan (2012-2017) investment requirement estimated to be to the tune of US$22 billion.

World Bank’s Follow up on Project’s Sustainability: The project KPIs: (i) transmission
capacity development (in ckm); (ii) transformation capacity (in MVA); and (iii) power
exchange across regions (in MU) are being monitored and updated through implementation of
PSDP IV and PSDP V that is in compliance with their respective M&E systems.

Section 3: Assessment of Outcomes

1. Relevance of Project Design and Objectives

The World Bank‟s support for this project was highly relevant and the PDO reflects the importance
of achieving further expansion and transformation in India‟s power sector infrastructure. The
project‟s design reflected sector priorities and focused on the need for more investments not only
in transmission but also in generation. Moreover, the completion of the NLDC demonstrated that
the power sector requires further such structural, technical and operational improvements. As
proven in previous projects that institutional transformation was needed in parallel with physical
investments, this project‟s achievements also responded to the country‟s needs and attracted more
financing from the private sector. Strengthening and further development of the National Grid
aimed at optimal utilization of existing scarce resources that are unevenly distributed across
regions in the country. The assets created under the project were to transfer power from generating
stations in power surplus regions to the load centers in power deficit regions and, hence, improve
access to reliable electricity by the end consumers.

The current CAS (2009-12) for India provides a framework to deal with the challenges of
achieving rapid, inclusive growth, of ensuring sustainable development, and improving service
delivery, with a cross-cutting focus on improving the effectiveness of public spending, inclusive of
infrastructure, and achieving results that can be monitored, all of which will help scale up the
impact of the World Bank Group (WBG) assistance. The power sector is still at the core of India‟s
growth and the WBG continues to seek (i) to deploy its dialog, analytical work, lending,
engagement with GoI and other stakeholders such as the private sector, and (ii) to build capacity
(physical and institutional) of the power sector in the most effective and efficient manner to drive
growth so that economic activities can create jobs and distribute income. The current CAS (2009-
12) for India reaffirms the same priorities as the previous CAS programs with the power
infrastructure at the core of project finance, especially in light of capital and FDI shortages
resulting from the economic and financial crises of 2008 and 2011. Thus, it is within this assistance
framework that this project‟s achievements are to be assessed.

2. Achievement of Project/Program Development Objectives



                                                 13
The achievement of the PDO is rated highly satisfactory. This rating is based on the completion of
all physical components (outputs) linked to the transmission schemes which have resulted in the
achievement of outcomes as outlined in the results framework of the project. The PDO consisted of
the “strengthening of the transmission system in order to increase reliable power exchanges
between the regions and states.?

The overall achievement of this objective is highly satisfactory based on the project‟s single
outcome indicator that assessed the achievement of the PDO towards the end of the project which
was growth in power exchange between the regions (in MU). The indicator outperformed its end
year targets (target: 52,000 MU; actual: 56,747 MU). In addition, three intermediate indicators
were also monitored during the project implementation: (i) growth in transformation capacity (in
MVA) that also outperformed its end year targets (target: 85,000MVA; actual: 93,050MVA);(ii)
growth in transmission capacity (in ckm) that were revised during MTR due to external factors but
outperformed revised targets (target: 80,000ckm; actual: 82,355ckm);and (iii) completion of
NLDC that was achieved in scheduled time.

The commissioning of transmission schemes financed through the project have resulted in
strengthening of the National Grid in terms of interregional as well as intraregional capacity
including the creation of a parallel transmission corridor in the Northern-Western Region. The
scope of the schemes (core and candidate) under PSDP III is given under „Original Components‟ in
Section 1. Further details regarding the completion of these components and achievements of PDO
are given in Annex 3.

Spillover Works under PSDP II - Completion of NLDC: The transmission subsector benefitted
immensely from a modern and completely computerized NLDC along with the already existing
Unified Load Dispatch and Communication System in various regions. NLDC is the apex body to
ensure integrated and optimal operation of the National Grid and smooth transfer of power
between the regions. This system also ensures monitoring of scheduling and dispatching of power
as well as the security and reliability of the grid and coordination among power exchanges.
Considering the increased complexity of grid operation of such a large network in the country,
facilities at NLDC and the five Regional Load Despatch Centers (RLDCs) are being upgraded on a
regular basis. As a result of POWERGRID‟s continuous effort, the Indian grid has not experienced
any major grid disturbances in the last eight years (since 2003-04). As per GoI‟s directive, this
along with other load dispatch centres at regional and state level is managed and operated by
POSOCO, a fully owned subsidiary of POWERGRID.

The completion of other spillover works under the Eastern Region and Western Region System
Coordination and Control Projects has resulted in the improvement of real time grid management
and economic dispatch of power at the regional level. Further, the completion of balance elements
has facilitated the strengthening of the transmission system. The addition of these state-of-the-art
communication systems (with the use of optical fiber composite overheard ground wire, commonly
called OPGW) and the extensive national coverage of the transmission lines have created
opportunities for POWERGRID to diversify into the telecommunication sector, by leveraging its
countrywide transmission network. The diversification into the telecom business has created a new
business opportunity for the company.

3. Efficiency

Economic and Financial Analysis

At appraisal, the economic and financial analysis for the cores schemes was carried out and they
were justified on the ground that their economic rates of return (ERRs) were higher than the
                                                14
opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. The ERRs were in the range of 14.83 percent to 15.96
percent in the base case and 10.46 percent to 11.06 percent in the most adverse case.

Analysis at Completion: Using actual cost figures and applicable tariffs, the analysis covers all
schemes (core and candidate). It also takes into account changes in tariffs and return on equity
(ROE) objectives. During the project implementation period, the CERC tariff norms were revised
in 2009 to be applicable until 2014. Since all the schemes under PSDP III were commissioned after
2009, the new tariff norms were applicable. The tariff for the schemes is based on a cost plus tariff
regime. The major change in the revised tariff norms is reflected in an increase in the rate of ROE
from 14 percent (2004) to 15.5 percent (2009), increase in rate of depreciation from around 3.6
percent to 5.28 percent, and upward revision of O&M rates. This has had a positive impact on the
revenue generated from the schemes and is reflected accordingly in the ERR and ROE calculated
and presented in detail in Annex 4.

       ERR: The methodology used during the appraisal was also adopted at the completion to
        calculate the ERR. The ERR has varied between 12.09 percent for the Seoni-Wardha-
        Akola-Aurangabad Transmission System to 23.85 percent for NWTC. In all the cases, the
        ERR is above the opportunity cost of the capital at 12 percent; and

       ROE: ROE has been taken as a proxy for the financial rate of return as was taken during
        the appraisal. The methodology used during appraisal was adopted to calculate ROE at
        completion. It has varied from 15.76 percent for the Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC transmission
        system to 25.96 percent for NWTC. In all cases, ROE was higher than the regulated ROE
        at 15.5 percent.

The financial analysis was also carried out at the entity level and it is observed that all financial
ratios (presented in Annex 4) are robust. POWERGRID also comfortably complied with all the
financial and legal covenants. The debt-equity ratio was always lower than 80:20. The self-
financing ratio was also greater than 20 percent for all years from 2006 till 2011. Accounts
receivable over the project life were also much lower than three months, stipulated in the Legal
Covenants. POWERGRID‟s receivables as of March 2011 stand at 0.15 months of average billing.

4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The overall rating of the project is highly satisfactory on the basis of its high relevance (as
discussed in Section 3.1), highly satisfactory achievement of the PDO (as discussed in Section
3.2), and efficient implementation (as discussed in Section 2.2). During the project period,
POWERGRID‟s performance has significantly improved in terms of safeguards
(implementation of ESPP across all projects irrespective of source of financing, adoption of
ESPP by the World Bank as a pilot for UCS under PSDP V, development of a CSR policy,
strengthening of ESMD, undertaking yearly independent environment audit, preparing the
sustainability report), strengthening of FM and corporate governance aspects („Navratna‟
status, strengthening of the internal audit department, initiation of ERP, implementation of
ERM, listing on the stock exchange, mainstreaming the operational audit across organization),
procurement (adoption of model bidding documents to facilitate faster turnaround time,
conducting vendor conferences), project management (monitoring through IPMCS, regular
reporting and close monitoring), and technical advancements (introducing the 765 kV
transmission system, commissioning of NLDC, developing of the 1,200 kV technology
financed under PSDP V). It stands today as a stronger company on technical, managerial and
                                                 15
institutional fronts and has undergone a tremendous transformation to reach the coveted status
of a corporation with international stature. The highly satisfactory rating is also justified by the
sustainability of the project components. In the coming years, the role of NLDC will become
more important with further development of the electricity trading market as the transmission
schemes financed by this loan as well as subsequent loans enable transfer of large quantities of
power across and between the regions of the country. Moreover, the outcome indicator (growth
in power exchange across regions) targets for the project were outperformed during the project
period.

5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
This project will increase the availability of electricity to the Indian people and contribute to an
increase in consumers‟ connection rate to the system, especially in regions where power
availability has been constrained by the lack of adequate transmission systems. Development and
strengthening of the National Grid through reliable and stable operation of regional grids facilitates
the timely transfer of power from surplus regions to deficit regions leading to optimal utilization of
scarce energy resources. Although POWERGRID‟s network does not link directly to the end
consumer, it facilitates power evacuation from central sector generating stations and interregional
power exchange, resulting in increased availability to and access to reliable electricity by the
connected consumers. The National Grid has also helped in connecting approximately 100 captive
power plants across the country enabling them to avail of benefits of open access in FY2011.

POWERGRID also contributes every year a certain percentage of its profit after tax (PAT) for the
preceding year towards the non-lapsable budget for CSR activities, such as education, health, and
infrastructure development. POWERGRID assesses the project impacts in zones limited to the
areas impacted by its substations. This is done through the assessment of the results of the
implementation of the RAP provisions in the project area affected by the substations. Though it is a
very small proportion of the entire project undertaken by POWERGRID, the impact assessment
undertaken, so far, of the RAP implementation has revealed an improvement of the socioeconomic
status of a majority of the affected people reflecting intensive efforts being put by POWERGRID.
In selected states, the company is also implementing the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran
Yojana (RGGVY), a GoI initiative to provide rural electricity infrastructure and household
electrification.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
POWERGRID continues to maintain high operational standards and is financially stable. It
operated around 82,355 ckm of transmission lines along with 135 substations as on March 31,
2011, with an average availability of the transmission systems of 99.8 percent during FY2011.
POWERGRID continues to wheel about 50 percent of the total power generated in the country
through its transmission network. It also operates a 20,733 kilometer (km) of telecom optical fiber
network and functions as an internet service provider. POWERGRID‟s financial performance
continues to be healthy with a PAT, in FY2011, higher by more than 30 percent of the PAT in
FY2010, while total gross revenues increased by more than 17 percent over the previous year.
POWERGRID uses effectively the mechanism of Letter of Credit coverage for payment security
and curtailment of supply in case of default. As a result, POWERGRID‟s receivables as of March
2011 stood at 0.15 months of average billing.

A high-level review of corporate governance and financial accountability, conducted in 2005 by
POWERGRID, developed an improvement action plan resulting in POWERGRID becoming a
benchmark for corporate governance in India, especially for state- owned enterprises. In October
                                                  16
2007, POWERGRID, with its initial IPO, became a listed company which proved to be a milestone
in further improving its FM and corporate governance performance. In May 2008, POWERGRID
was notified as a Navratna company and higher powers were given to the Board of the company to
undertake investment decisions on its own. In November 2010, POWERGRID issued its follow-on
public offer (FPO) that received an overwhelming response and was oversubscribed 15 times.
Various rating agencies in India endorse the rating of POWERGRID‟s outlook as „stable‟
indicating the highest degree of safety with regard to timely servicing of debt. Over the project
implementation period, POWERGRID has made substantial progress in some key areas including
corporate governance, financial accounting, internal audit, and ERM, successfully completing
competitive selection of project auditors and piloting the Operational Audits.

Its ESPP is followed across all projects irrespective of financing and has become the benchmark in
the industry. It was adopted under the UCS of the World Bank during the preparation of PSDP V.
Environmental considerations have been effectively mainstreamed in POWERGRID‟s operations,
as demonstrated by the adaptation of transmission tower designs to reduce impacts in sensitive
habitats such as wildlife sanctuaries. Another enhancement which has since been mainstreamed in
substation designs is the provision of rainwater collection and harvesting systems in areas with low
groundwater tables. POWERGRID also follows a proactive approach on tree plantation in its
substations that is much higher than the mandatory requirement under the law. On social aspects,
POWERGRID has substantially reduced the land required to establish a substation by improved
design and layout. Other mitigation measures put in place by POWERGRID include appropriate
handling and management of wastes and workers‟ safety related provisions. To inculcate the
values that its ESPP enshrines, POWERGRID regularly trains its staff on these aspects, and a
substantial part of the annual curriculum is devoted to the understanding and implementation of the
ESPP, reflecting the utility‟s concerted position and commitment to minimize, as much as possible,
the overall environmental and social footprint of its operations. POWERGRID has also developed
a CSR Policy and is also the first among World Bank clients to have published its first
Sustainability Report covering its environment and social performance in 2009.

POWERGRID, in association with the World Bank, developed the Model Bidding documents that
are used for procurement in POWERGRID, irrespective of the source of funding, and has, thus,
reduced the turnaround time involved in the administrative aspect of the bidding process.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
As mentioned above, POWERGRID became a listed company and was accorded the „Navratna‟
status during the project implementation period. The Company has also undertaken the
development of certain transmission lines with private parties through public-private Joint
Ventures (JV). Refer to Annex 3 for further details on various JVs.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

Section 4: Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

1. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The overall level of risk to the development outcome is rated low. This assessment is based on
the sustainability of the physical investments financed by the loan as well as on the financial,
operational and technical strength of POWERGRID.

                                                17
Operations: The completed transmission infrastructure is being and will be operated and
maintained in a sustainable manner by POWERGRID, which is an efficient operator with
advanced technical and operational capabilities. The risk level is also rated low based on the
sustainability of POWERGRID's enhanced institutional capacity and managerial performance
which should enable the company to continue to achieve high performance levels. The reliability
of the grid has been enhanced. Since 2003-04, no major grid disturbances have been reported on
the Indian power grid. This is also demonstrated by the fact that, during FY2011, the availability
of the transmission system was 99.8 percent. Measures adopted by POWERGRID have resulted
in an increased interregional power exchange that contributes towards an even distribution of
resources by meeting the power demand in the deficit region from the power surplus regions. It
has increased from 35,000 MU in 2005-06 to 56,747 MU in 2010-11, an increase of almost 62
percent. The National Grid so established has an interregional power transfer capacity of about
23,800 MW (as in July 2011), planned to be increased to 28,000 MW by end of the 11th Five
Year Plan (2012), making it one of the largest synchronous grids in the world with an installed
generation capacity of about 117 gigawatt (GW). Moreover, POWERGRID‟s growth strategy is
to continue to rapidly increase its capacity to tap into the renewable energy sources of the country
to lower the carbon footprint of the sector and remain the reliable central transmission utility as
well as an enabler of steady growth of the electricity market for the benefit of the entire economy.
As on March 31, 2011, POWERGRID had 25 new transmission projects in various stages of
implementation. These projects involve approximately 8,000 ckm of transmission lines and 23
substations with a total power transformation capacity of approximately 32,000 MVA.

Tariffs and Revenues: The risk associated with these aspects is low. Revenue generation is
ensured by adequate tariffs and arrears recovery due to the implementation of the tripartite
agreement, Letter of Credit, and improvements in commercial discipline. The current tariffs (as
per CERC‟s tariff policy of 2009) will remain in place until 2014, and should ensure that
POWERGRID generates revenues in line with ROE requirements (15.5 percent) and carries on
with future expansion objectives.

Institutional Capacity: The risk associated with this aspect is low. Over the implementation
period, POWERGRID has made substantial progress. As discussed in Section 3.5.b,
POWERGRID has continuously improved its corporate management model through adoption of
international operational standards and implementation of a planning and strategic business
model necessary for its growth and sustained harnessing of the country‟s renewable energy
sources, such as wind and hydropower. In addition to POWERGRID‟s IPMCS, its ESPP was
strengthened during the project period and was finally adopted by the World Bank as a pilot
under its UCS policy (OP. 4.00) during the preparation of PSDP V. All these measures ensure
that the risk will remain low for the foreseeable future.

Section 5: Assessment of World Bank and Borrower Performance

1. Assessment of World Bank and Borrower Performance

World Bank
(a) World Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The World Bank’s performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is
rated satisfactory. The World Bank had acquired valuable experience through PSDP I and II and
its knowledge of the Indian power sector resulted in the formulation of a targeted PDO in keeping

                                                18
with the strategic transformation of the transmission subsector sustained by POWERGRID‟s
operational and institutional capabilities. The World Bank established a strong partnership and
good working relationship with all the stakeholders including CERC, MoP, MoF and PTC. This
helped the World Bank team, POWERGRID and GoI authorities to define feasible component
options and setup an implementation framework in line with the World Bank‟s procurement and
applicable safeguards. The definition of PDO focused on outcomes for which POWERGRID was
held accountable and risk assessment focused on appropriate risks while the ratings were realistic.

The preparation team also ensured that all required steps were taken by GoI and POWERGRID,
including the final project implementation plan incorporating details of investment subprojects.
The World Bank team also carried out safeguards and compliance measures assessment. Tests
were carried out during the preparation phase including a financial management assessment (refer
Annex 7 of PAD). The World Bank helped the borrower formulate the required ESPP framework
needed for project implementation. In addition, ESPP assessment made sure that POWERGRID
provided the initial environmental action plan and RAPs for the project. Moreover, a number of
required measures were put in place to ensure quality at entry contributed to successful
implementation. These were:
     Approval of the agreed upon ESPP by POWERGRID‟s Board of Directors;
     Establishment of model/standard biddings documents for procurement activities planned
        for the first 18 months of project implementation; and
     A process to expedite decisions on the evaluation criteria used for the “supply and
        installation of goods.?

By loan effectiveness, the World Bank team had delivered a product tailored to POWERGRID‟s
investments priorities and implementing capacity in compliance with procurement, FM and
safeguards guidelines. The QER process (held in October 2004) contributed to the enhancement of
World Bank‟s performance in the preparation and appraisal phases. The QER agreed that, for the
proposed project, the PDOs should be focused on the planned physical investments thus justifying
their narrow formulation. The QER also endorsed the team‟s assessment and recommendations on
strengthening the ESPP framework. The QER panel did make constructive recommendations to
the team on the sustainability aspects of the investments, including the need to link the open access
regime with the proposed investments and to carry out dialog and Economic and Sector Work
(ESW) on the sector.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The World Bank’s performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Since loan effectiveness,
the World Bank supervision team carried seven implementation support missions with site visits
over the five-year implementation period, and sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated
as the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored, including through delegation of
day-to-day supervision responsibilities to Delhi-based staff, which proved highly effective. The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission took place in October 2011. Supervision of the
project‟s implementation was strengthened by a systematic collaboration between the World Bank
and POWERGRID‟s project teams with a significant skills mix. The World Bank team was
continuously involved in all aspects of implementation in order to ensure that physical investments
were carried out and that disbursements occurred as planned. Submission of progress reports, PMR
                                                   19
and safeguards compliance reports ensured that supervision provided both parties with indicators
to allow them to track progress and take corrective actions when needed. The World Bank‟s
supervision tracking system (Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISR) and mission aide
memoires) provided much needed status information about the project, and required
implementation ratings and compliance with covenants. Continuous involvement by the World
Bank's team and POWERGRID‟s use of the IPMCS were instrumental in ensuring that the project
components were successfully implemented with a 100 percent disbursement rate.

The World Bank team was continuously involved with POWERGRID to resolve delays due to
forest management and ROW issues. These issues, which did not slowed down disbursements,
were resolved and project implementation activities proceeded towards completion according to
the planned schedule. FM was also closely monitored as the World Bank recommended that
POWERGRID strengthen its internal audit department and take actions to hire consultants for
reviewing the company‟s ERP and to strengthen its ERM. Active support was provided in
formulating model bidding documents that were to be used for uniquely placed projects such as
HVDC links and 765 kV technology.

Overall World Bank Performance Rating: Satisfactory

Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government’s performance is rated satisfactory. GoI has identified the power sector as being
vital for sustained and inclusive economic growth and has taken decisive steps to improve legal
and policy frameworks. To bring in discipline to the National Grid, the Indian Electricity Grid
Code (IEGC) was introduced in 2000. The landmark 2003 Electricity Act seeks to improve the
efficiency and accountability of the sector, building upon the establishment of autonomous
electricity regulatory commissions at the Center and in many states since 1998. Nondiscriminatory
open access was facilitated under the Act and was implemented successfully in the interstate
transmission system since May 2004. Further policies -- 2005 National Electricity Policy (NEP),
2006 National Tariff Policy (NTP), 2006 Rural Electrification Policy and 2007 Integrated Energy
Policy (IEP) -- are intended to facilitate the goals established in the Act by detailing policy on
specific issues. The NEP sets ambitious targets for providing universal access to reliable and good
quality power by 2012, while also highlighting the need to mitigate power shortages as well as
achieving financial viability of the electricity sector. In June 2008, CERC accorded approval to
setting up of the first power exchange of the country to enable efficient price discovery by ushering
in a transparent manner and neutral market through a technology-enabled electronic trading
platform. As formulated in NTP, from January 2011 onwards, all projects are now being awarded
through the competitive bidding route, irrespective of whether to a public or private developer.
Thus, the landscape of the power sector market in India has undergone drastic change and has
become more challenging since the inception of POWERGRID in 1989, to which the company has
been adapting seamlessly.

All stakeholders (MoP, MoF and CERC) were always available to the World Bank supervision
teams and worked together to resolve issues during project supervision. Project ownership by GoI
was crucial to the successful implementation of this project. Institutional support ensured

                                                 20
continuous monitoring and support for loan disbursement and related financial measures such as
counterpart funding, and compliance with loans covenants, including arrears payments.

GoI ensured an adequate legal and regulatory framework conducive to achieving the objectives of
the project. CERC played a significant role in providing transparent oversight of the transmission
subsector through independent leadership. Implementation of the tripartite agreement of 2003 was
also critical in mitigating POWERGRID‟s risk of nonpayment by off-taking state utilities. In
addition, GoI‟s and CERC‟s regulatory framework was designed to provide tariffs to enable the
company achieve an ROE of 15.5 percent. This project was also instrumental in establishing
institutional cooperation to resolve issues of forest clearances.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

POWERGRID was the borrower and the implementing agency and its performance is rated
satisfactory. This rating is based on POWERGRID‟s efficiency in implementing the project as
investment schemes were implemented on time, disbursements reached 100 percent of the loan
and closing occurred as planned on July 31, 2011. POWERGRID has not only met but
outperformed all KPIs, thus meeting all development outcomes.

Compliance with financial and legal agreements was also achieved during implementation as
POWERGRID‟s management and project team were strongly committed to the project‟s successful
implementation. The use of IPMCS in tandem with its corporate ESPP ensured adequate mitigation
of safeguards risks. In addition, POWERGRID‟s ESPP has evolved -- both in terms of content and
application -- towards becoming an international standard so much so that these have been
approved by the World Bank under the provisions of OP/BP 4.00 (Piloting the use of Borrower
Systems to address Environmental and Social Safeguards Issues in Bank-Supported Projects)
during the preparation of PSDP V.

POWERGRID‟s corporate governance is already a benchmark in India; it is a "Navratna"
company, a designation among public sector utilities that symbolizes confidence in the company‟s
ability to discharge enhanced responsibilities and it, therefore, enjoys significant autonomy. It
continues to improve its corporate governance through strengthening of the internal audit
department, carrying out of operational audits, undertaking the ERM exercise, implementation of
ERP, and Environmental and Social Impact Assessment. POWERGRID‟s rating as „stable‟ in
outlook indicates the highest degree of safety with regard to timely servicing of debt.

Overall Borrower Performance Rating: Satisfactory

2. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from the design and implementation of the project are:
    Long-term programmatic approach results in successful partnership: After the completion
       of PSDP I and II, the successful implementation of PSDP III was followed by the
       implementation of two other projects --PSDP IV and V. This demonstrates that the
       programmatic approach for sector investments that are structurally linked could be used as
       an effective assistance instrument by the World Bank as long as dialog with the sector is
       effectively pursued while benefitting from lessons and achievement of each project. The
       long-term partnership between the World Bank and POWERGRID has not only
       contributed to the establishment of a strong transmission system but also supported
                                               21
        POWERGRID in its institutional strengthening through safeguards and fiduciary dialog,
        enabling it to become one of the best transmission utilities in the world.
       Impact of compliance with the negative pledge clause: This process required a careful and
        lengthy preparation of the security package by POWERGRID which delayed loan
        effectiveness by about six months (July 31 to December 15, 2006). It would have been
        useful to resolve this aspect earlier during preparation so that implementation could
        proceed according to the planned timeline. This is a broader lesson for the India portfolio.
        However, the resolution of this issue and experience gained during the approval process
        resulted in the streamlining of the approval of PSDP IV and V by the World Bank.
       Successful implementation has shown the importance of partnership with an efficient and
        strong implementing agency: Using operational and project management experience,
        POWERGRID has effectively contributed to the success of the project. Moreover, this
        project has shown that continuous reviews and improvements of POWERGRID‟s technical
        implementation, procurement and safeguards systems have elevated the standards to be
        followed by others.
       Additional Forum to interact on procurement issues: Procurement is a delicate matter and
        with its overlapping synergies with the technical aspects, it is always a tough and
        contentious issue. Thus, even though there was a regular communication (both formal and
        informal) between POWERGRID and the Bank during the entire project period, an
        additional exchange forum, which could be in the form of regular face-to-face meetings,
        between the Bank and POWERGRID to discuss such complex matters in even more detail
        shall help in future engagements.

3. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies
All comments have been appropriately incorporated in the final ICR. POWERGRID‟s
completion report (refer annex 9 for summary) reflects most of the evaluation in the Bank‟s ICR
and also assesses the achievement of the project‟s PDO as Highly Satisfactory. POWERGRID‟s
comments, which were mostly of an editorial nature have been reflected adequately in the report.
The Bank team‟s response to each comment is indicated in Annex 10.

(b) Co-financiers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                                22
                     Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

                                                                        Initial       Achieved
             PDO                          Outcome Indicators           Baseline      End Target
                                                                        Value           Value
To strengthen the transmission      - Growth in power exchange      31,000          56,747 Gwh
system in order to increase         between the regions             gigawatt
reliable power exchanges                                            hour (Gwh)
between the regions and states.
      Intermediate Results            Results Indicators for Each
       One per Component                       Component
Component One: Transmission         -Growth in transmission capacity - 51,000 ckm   82,355 ckm
system strengthening (investments   ckm
and relevant technical support)      -Growth in transformation         50,000 MVA   93,050 MVA
                                     capacity - MVA
Component Two: Completion of        -Component Two: Completion of                   Completed and
balance works of the schemes        NLDC                                            commissioned
financed by the World Bank under                                                    in 2009
loan 4603-IN for POWERGRID
System Development Project II
beyond the loan closing date of
June 30, 2006




                                              23
                                 Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing

a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million Equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                                 Percentage of
      Components                                      Estimate (US$
                                  (US$ million)                                                     Appraisal
                                                         million)
1. Transmission system
                                                          797                     543.5211
strengthening (core schemes)

2. Completion of ongoing World
                                                            75                      30.26
Bank-financed schemes (PSDP II)

Total Baseline Cost                                       872                      573.78
Physical contingencies                                     70                       NA
Price contingencies                                        36                       NA
Total Project Costs                                       978                      573.78
Interest during construction                               64                       NA
Front-end fee IBRD                                          1                       NA                     .
Total Financing Required                                 1043                     317.0812

b. Financing
               Type of
                         Appraisal   Actual/Latest
   Source of     Co-
                         Estimate      Estimate                                           Remarks
    Funds     financin
                       (US$ million) (US$ million)
                  g
For Core Schemes and Component 2
                                                                           Actual estimates include
                                                                   POWERGRID‟s contribution as well as
                                                                   domestic financing for the components
Borrower                              643.00             245.74    of core schemes funded under PSDP III
                                                                   whereas appraisal estimates include the
                                                                      cost estimates for complete cores
                                                                   schemes funded from PSDP IV as well.
                                                         317.08       Total funding by IBRD is US$400
                                                     (plus, balance million that represents contribution
IBRD                                  400.00
                                                     for candidate    towards core as well as candidate
                                                        schemes)                   schemes




11
   The appraisal estimate included the funding cost of all components under core schemes. For instance, HVDC terminals
were financed under PSDP IV but appraisal cost estimates included the costs of these terminals as well. Similarly,
anticipated costs of substation extensions for the 765kV Seoni-Bina transmission line were included at appraisal but were
financed through POWERGRID‟s own resources and, thus, not included in the latest cost estimates given above.
Exchange rate of US$1 = INR 43 (as used for economic and financial analysis) used.
12
   Actual funding required for core schemes and component 2 under PSDP III. Refer Annex 3 for details.
                                                             24
c. Disbursement Graph




                        25
                                         Annex 3: Outputs by Component

      The project components under PSDP III were implemented within the project period at the
      estimated project costs. Table A3.1compares the total project costs at the time of appraisal, the
      corresponding World Bank funding at that time, final committed value to be financed by World
      Bank funds after award of the contract, and disbursements as on December 16, 2011. The table
      also illustrates the status of completion of the various components.

                                         Table A3.1: An overview of financing
                                                                                   All Figures in US$ Million
Sl.                    Total Project       Envisaged      Committe    Disburs             Remarks
No.   Project Name         Cost              Bank          d Value     ement
                       As per PAD          Funding as
                                            per PAD
1     Seoni-Wardha-              169               118          121    116.09   Commissioned progressively
      Akola-                                                                    by November2009. Component
      Aurangabad                                                                wise date of commercial
      Transmission                                                              operation:
      System                                                                     Seoni- Wardha 765kV
                                                                                   single circuit (S/C) line:
                                                                                   April 1, 2009
                                                                                 Wardha-Akola 400 kV
                                                                                   double circuit (D/C) line -
                                                                                   April 1, 2009
                                                                                 Akola -Aurangabad 400 kV
                                                                                   D/C line- December 1, 2009
                                                                                 New 400/220 kV Wardha
                                                                                   S/S, ,Extension of Seoni and
                                                                                   Akola substations – April 1,
                                                                                   2009
                                                                                 Extension of Aurangabad
                                                                                   substation –December 1,
                                                                                   2009
2     ±500 kV, 2,500              173               150         126    126.74    Only Balia-Bhiwadi 500kV
      MW Balia &        (only HVDC                                                 HVDC bipole line covered
      Bhiwadi            line portion)                                             under PSDPIII loan which
      HVDC Bipole                                                                  was completed in March
      System                                                                       2010
                                                                                 Pole-I of HVDC line along
                                                                                   with terminal stations
                                                                                   commissioned in August
                                                                                   2010 and commercially
                                                                                   operational since September
                                                                                   1, 2010
                                                                                 Pole-II of HVDC line along
                                                                                   with terminal stations
                                                                                   expected to be
                                                                                   commissioned by March,
                                                                                   2012 (under PSDPIV loan)
3     765 kV Seoni-                82                56          44     43.99   Commissioned in March2010
      Bina                                                                      and commercially operational
      Transmission                                                              since April 1, 2010
      Line
4     North-West                 128                 89          65     60.98   Commissioned progressively
      Transmission                                                              by April2009. Element wise
                                                          26
Sl.                      Total Project       Envisaged         Committe       Disburs                 Remarks
No.   Project Name           Cost              Bank             d Value        ement
                         As per PAD          Funding as
                                              per PAD
      Corridor                                                                            date of commercial operation:
      Strengthening                                                                        765 kV S/C Gwalior-Agra
      Scheme                                                                                 Line – April 1, 2009
                                                                                           400 kV D/C Zerda-Kankroli
                                                                                             Line – May 1, 2009
5     Western                        65                  55            22*       21.94    Only 765 kV S/C Bina-Gwalior
      Region System                                                                       line covered under PSDPIII
      Strengthening                                                                       loan, which has been
      Scheme-II                                                                           commissioned in February2010
                                                                                          and is commercially operational
                                                                                          since March 1, 2010.
                                                                                          Entire project is expected to be
                                                                                          commissioned progressively by
                                                                                          March 2012 (under PSDPIV
                                                                                          &additional financing for
                                                                                          PSDPIV loans)
6     Completion of                  75                  75             32       30.26    All projects completed
      Spill Over
      Projects from
      PSDP-II
      including
      Emergency
      Restoration
      System13
       (NLDC)
      Total                         692                543             410         400
                                                                (restricted
                                                                   to 400)

      The loan financed two set of components: schemes linked to the strengthening of the transmission
      system and completion of balance works under PSDP II. Under the first component on
      transmission system strengthening, the schemes were categorized into „core‟ and „candidate‟. Core
      schemes were those that had been identified at the time of appraisal, preparatory works had
      commenced and the schemes would start implementation in the first year of loan effectiveness.
      Candidate schemes were those that were tentatively identified (or might be identified in the future)
      and would be eligible for World Bank financing provided the project implementation plans
      submitted by POWERGRID established that these schemes met the project objective and were
      selected as per the „eligibility criteria‟ as set out in Annex 11.

      Component One: Transmission System Strengthening Schemes
      Core Schemes
      The following three schemes were selected under PSDP III:

      a. Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad Transmission System
      The objective of this scheme was to provide adequate transmission arrangements to enable the
      state of Maharashtra to draw power reliably from a pooling point in the central part of the Western
      Region, where power imported from the Eastern Region and other sources needed to be pooled.
      13
        This included: (i) Eastern Region System Coordination and Control Project; (ii) Western Region System Coordination
      and Control Project; (iii) System Strengthening-III in Southern Region Grid; (iv) High Capacity East-North
      Interconnector-II; (v) POWERGRID‟S Diversification into Telecom Business; (vi) NLDC.
                                                                  27
Wardha (Nagpur area) is a major load center in the eastern part of Maharashtra. At project
appraisal, power to Wardha was being transmitted through 220 kV lines that were inadequate to
meet future demand. Therefore, to meet the then existing as well as long-term power requirements
of the area with reliability and security, the establishment of a new 400/220 kV substation at
Wardha had become essential. Furthermore, this substation was planned to be upgraded to 765 kV
level in the future when the injection of power at Seoni (pooling point in Madhya Pradesh) from
the Eastern Region would increase and higher power transfer capacity will be required by
Maharashtra. Accordingly, the interconnection of this substation with the power pooling station at
Seoni was proposed through a 765 kV single circuit Seoni-Wardha line, which should initially
operate at 400 kV. For further dispatch of power towards the central part of Maharashtra, the
establishment of 400 kV D/C Wardha-Akola and Akola-Aurangabad lines was also needed. The
scheme was originally planned to be completed by June 2008, but was commissioned
progressively in November 2009 due to delays in the availability of the downstream network. The
completion of this transmission system has enabled the development of a parallel transmission
corridor for power delivery with enhanced reliability and security from Seoni towards the
eastern/central part of Maharashtra. This investment has also resulted in the establishment of a new
400/220 kV substation at Wardha which is a major load center and caters to the power demand of
the region.

The works consisted of:
   Transmission lines (financed under PSDP III)
    From Seoni to Wardha 765 kV single circuit (initially to be operated at 400 kV) – on a
       distance of 269 ckm;
    From Wardha to Akola 400 kV double circuit on a distance of 324 ckm; and
    From Akola to Aurangabad 400 kV double circuit on a distance of 482 ckm.
   Substations (financed under PSDP III)
    A new 400/220 kV Wardha substation (with a provision to upgrade to 765 kV); and
    The extensions of 400/220 kV at Seoni, Akola and Aurangabad substations.

b. ± 500kV, 2500 MW Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC Transmission System
The objective of this scheme was to transfer power to the Northern and Western Regions from the
Balia pooling point (in Uttar Pradesh), which gets power from surplus generated in the Eastern
Region. A 2500 MW HVDC bipole between Balia and Bhiwadi was required to meet the power
demand for the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi in the Western part of the Northern
Grid. This HVDC bipole was required to be used to supply power to the Western Region via the
Agra-Gwalior 765 kV transmission (initially to be charged at 400 kV level) line through the 400
kV double circuit Bhiwadi-Agra line established under the Northern Region System Strengthening
scheme.

The entire scheme (500 kV HVDC bipole line, Pole-I and Pole-II of the HVDC line) was originally
planned to be completed by September 2009 but will now be commissioned in March 2012 due to
delays in supply of converter transformers at the Bhiwadi terminal station by the contractor. The
component under PSDP III (500 kV HVDC bipole line) was completed in March 2010. Pole-I of
the HVDC line along with the terminal station was commissioned in August 2010.

The works consisted of:
Transmission lines (financed under PSDP III)
 From Balia to Bhiwadi ±500 kV, 2,500 MW HVDC bipole line on a distance of 1,580 ckm.
Substations (initially proposed to be financed under PSDP III but to match commissioning of
associated generation projects, it was later financed under PSDP IV);
 HVDC terminal for 2,500 MW at Balia along with associated 400 kV works; and
                                                28
   HVDC terminal for 2,500 MW at Bhiwadi along with associated 400 kV works.

c. Seoni-Bina 765 kV Single Circuit Transmission Link
The objective of this scheme was to connect a major load center (Bina) in the northern part of the
state of Madhya Pradesh to a power pooling point in the south-eastern part of the state (Seoni) as
well as to complete the 765 kV ring interconnecting the Eastern, Western and Northern Regions of
India as part of development of the National Grid. The completion of this transmission line was to
help export of surplus power from the Eastern Region to the Western and Northern Regions and
strengthen the transmission system within the Western Region for secure and reliable supply of
power.

At the appraisal, the scheme was expected to be completed during FY2010. The project was
originally scheduled to be commissioned in September 2009 but was finally commissioned in
March 2010 due to delays in issuance of forest clearance as the Supreme Court had issued a stay
order on the reconstitution of the FAC between 2006 and 2007.

The works consisted of:
 A transmission line (financed under PSDP III loan) from Seoni to Bina. This was a 765 kV
   single circuit line (initially to be operated at 400 kV) on a distance of 293 ckm; and
 Substations (initially planned to be financed under PSDP III but later financed by
   POWERGRID’s own resources): the extensions of the 400/220 kV substation at Seoni and of
   the 400/220 kV substation at Bina.

Candidate Schemes
Apart from the three core schemes, a number of candidate schemes were tentatively identified with
an understanding to identify and add more such schemes to this pool and to finance the schemes
that met the eligibility criteria as outlined in Annex 11. The eligibility criteria also included criteria
on safeguards while planning and implementing the schemes, thus, essentially implying that the
same due diligence will be followed for such schemes as for core schemes. The following schemes
were identified as candidate schemes at the time of appraisal:

    Western Region System Strengthening Scheme-II
    o Transmission Lines
        Seoni-Wardha, 765 kV second single circuit (initially to be operated at 400 kV) - 279
          ckm;
        Wardha-Parli 400 kV double circuit (Quad) - 363 ckm;
        Raipur-Wardha 400 kV double circuit line along with 25 percent fixed series
          compensation - 363 ckm;
        Bhadravati-Parli 400 kV double circuit - 380 ckm ;
        Parli (Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB))-Parli (POWERGRID) 400kV
          double circuit - 7 ckm;
        Bina-Gwalior 765 kV 2nd single circuit line (initially to be operated at 400 kV);
        Korba-Birsinghpur 400 kV double circuit line - 227 ckm;
        Birsinghpur-Damoh 400 kV double circuit line – 254 ckm; and
        Damoh-Bhopal 400 kV double circuit – 234 ckm.
    o New Substations
        Parli 400 kV switching substation; and
        Pune, Pandharpur and Damoh 400/220 kV substations.
    o Substation Extension Works
        Extension of Seoni, Bhadravati, Wardha, Raipur, Parli, Rajgarh and Gwalior 400 kV
          substations;

                                                   29
       Extension of Parli, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Karamsad, Limbdi (Chorania),
        Ranchhodpura(Vadavi), Zerda(Kansari), Bhopal, Korba, Birsinghpur 400 kV substation;
        and
      Extension of Bina 400 kV switching station.
 Transmission System Associated with Dispersal of Power from Panarasa Pooling Point
  o Transmission Lines
      400 kV double circuit Panarasa pooling point -Amritsar line; and
      Loop-in-loop-out of 400 kVdouble circuit from Parbati-I to Koldam at Panarasa pooling
        point.
  o Substations
      New 400 kV Parbati pooling point geographic information system (GIS) substation; and
      Extension of Amritsar 400/220 kV substation.

    System Strengthening in South Western Part of Northern Grid
    o Transmission Lines
        Kankroli-Jodhpur 400 kV single circuit line; and
        Kota-Merta 400 kV double circuit line.
    o Substations
        Extensions of 400/220 kV Kota, Kankroli, Merta and Jodhpur substations

    System Strengthening Schemes in Eastern Region
    o Transmission Lines
        Baripada-Mendhasal400 kV double circuit line;
        Durgapur-Jamshedpur 400 kV double circuit line;
        Jamshedpur-Baripada 400 kV double circuit line;
        Mendhasal-Berhampur 400 kV double circuit line;
        Berhampur-Gazuwaka 400 kV double circuit line; and
        Reconductoring of Siliguri-Purnea 400 kV double circuit line.
    o Substations
        New 400/220 kV, 2x3 15 MVA substation at Berhampur.

    Development of High Capacity Transmission System Associated with Dispersal of Power
     from North Eastern Region Pooling Point
    o Pooling station in North Eastern Region - load point in Northern Region/Western Region +
      600 kV, 4,000 MW HVDC bipole.

    East-West Transmission Corridor
    o Transmission Lines
        Ranchi-Rourkela 400 kV double circuit line; and
        Rourkela-Raigarh-Raipur 400 kV double circuit line.
    o Substations
        Extensions of Ranchi, Rourkela, Raigarh and Raipur 400/220 kV substations; and
        Fixed Series Compensator + Thyristor Controlled Series Compensator on Raigarh-
          Raipur 400 kV double circuit line.

    North-West Transmission Corridor
    o Transmission Lines
        Agra-Gwalior second circuit 765 kV (to be initially operated at 400 kV); and
        Kankroli - Zerda 400 kV double circuit.
    o Substations
        Extensions of Agra, Gwalior, Kankroli and Zerda 400/220 kV substations.
                                               30
Only two schemes were finally financed under PSDP III: (i) WRSS II under which only the Bina-
Gwalior 765 kV second single circuit transmission line (initially to be operated at 400 kV) was
financed under PSDP III; and (ii) the NWTC (as mentioned above). Some of the proposed schemes
listed above were financed under PSDP IV. Details of the candidate schemes financed under PSDP
III are provided below.

d. Strengthening of the Western Region System Scheme-II
During the last decade, generation capacity addition in the Western Region has been meager as
compared to the demand growth, creating a peak demand deficit of about 5,000-6,000 MW,
resulting in a substantial increase in power import from the Eastern and Southern Regions. In
India, major energy resources are concentrated in a few pockets such as the large belt of coal
deposit confined to the Eastern part while most of the hydro potential is located in the North-
Eastern and upper Northern parts of the country. Therefore, to meet the power requirement of
deficit regions such as the Western Region, bulk power transfer over long distances from
generation sources to load centers located across the country is required. It is worth noting that in
the Western Region too, major generation sources are located in the eastern part while load centers
are located in western and central parts of the Western Region. Therefore, to transfer power from
major generation plants in the eastern part to load centers such as Wardha, Pune, Aurangabad,
Gwalior, Bhopal, Indore, Karamsad, and so on, POWERGRID needed to develop transmission
corridors of adequate capacity. WRSS-II was designed to strengthen various parts of the Western
Region

CERC, through its order dated July 29, 2005 in Petition No. 85/2004 regarding the „application of
grant of a transmission license to Reliance Energy Transmission Limited,‟ directed the
implementation of transmission lines under Sets A and D by POWERGRID either on its own or by
forming JV companies and Sets B and C through 100 percent private participation. However, in the
event of 100 percent private participation not materializing for transmission lines under Sets B and
C, the projects were to be implemented by POWERGRID on its own. All substations under all sets
were to be implemented by POWERGRID. In response to this, POWERGRID proposed the Bina-
Gwalior 765 kV second single circuit transmission line (initially to be operated at 400 kV) on a
distance of 233 ckm under PSDP III funding.

At the appraisal, the entire WRSS II scheme was expected to be completed by July 2010 but is now
being targeted to be commissioned by March 2012. The line under PSDP III was planned to be
commissioned in July 2010 and was completed ahead of schedule in February 2010. According to
estimates, this line has resulted in an intraregional energy transfer of 3,900 MU from FY2011.

e. The North-West Transmission Corridor
To achieve an interregional power transfer capacity of 28,000 MW by 2012, a number of
interregional transmission schemes with both HVDC and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
(HVAC) technologies were designed during the 11th Five Year Plan to strengthen and enhance the
interregional power transfer capacity of the National Grid. This scheme was a part of it. Keeping in
view future generation projects in the Eastern Region and increased power demand in the Western
Region, further strengthening of the synchronous link through another 765 kV Agra-Gwalior line
was proposed under the loan. With the establishment of all interregional links, the Northern Region
was planned to be operated in a synchronous mode with Eastern and Western Regions. Therefore,
to ensure stable operation of such a large system, both Western and Northern Regions would be
interconnected with high capacity interregional links at two distant locations, which would help in
maintaining security and stability of the interconnected grid under various operating conditions.


                                                 31
The commissioning of these interregional lines has increased the power transfer capacity of the
National Grid by about 2,100 MW. Due to the establishment of two separate interconnections
between the Northern and Western grids, the stability and security of the grid has been enhanced.

The work consisted of:
   Transmission lines (financed under PSDP III)
    Agra-Gwalior second circuit 765 kV transmission line (initially to be operated at 400 kV)
       – 128 ckm; and
    Kankroli-Zerda 400 kV double circuit transmission line – 470 ckm.
   Substations (financed under PSDP IV)
    400/220 kV Agra (POWERGRID) substation extension;
    400/220 kV Gwalior (POWERGRID) substation extension;
    400/220 kV Kankroli (POWERGRID) substation extension; and
    400/220 kV Zerda (Gujarat Electricity Board) substation extension.

The scheme was originally planned to be completed by January 2009 but was finally
commissioned in April 2009. The minor delay was caused by the time taken in processing forest
clearance proposals at the State Forest Departments of Rajasthan and Gujarat. Also, the Nathdwara
Court in Rajasthan issued a stay order at three locations under the project area. This was vacated in
February 2009, immediately after which the line was commissioned.

As can be observed, under some schemes, some of the lines (both under „core‟ and „candidate‟
schemes) were established to handle a transfer capacity at a 765 kV voltage level whereas they
were to be operated initially at the 400 kV voltage level. POWERGRID‟s rationale for this
proactive planning approach and design was to speed up and ease (because of the increasingly
complex ROW issues) future construction of higher voltage transmission lines, which were needed
because of the commissioning of upcoming generation projects and fast increasing energy demand.

TA for POWERGRID: The provision for TA, as part of project component one, was retained at
the appraisal to assist POWERGRID and GoI undertake actions to further strengthen the
interlinkages between the regions and establish a national transmission network, critical for
resource optimization. It was further agreed that the selection of TA to be financed under PSDP III
was to depend upon the availability of alternative grant finance, an option preferred by
POWERGRID and GoI. Given this context, and because of its financial stability, POWERGRID
decided to finance the relevant system and company development studies through its own
resources.

Component Two: Completion of Balance Works of PSDP II Project (Loan 4603-In)
This consisted of the completion of the PSDP II project (IBRD Loan 4603-In) and its estimated
cost was US$75 million. The final utilization against this component was US$30.26 million.
PSDP III provided funding for: (i) completion of the NLDC; and (ii) transmission lines,
substations and other procurements, taken up under PSDP II loan (4603-IN) after its closing
date of June 30, 2006. This component was also eligible to finance balance payments, if any,
from PSDP II, which may have completed before June 30, 2006 but where these payments
became due after the closing date. The following works were taken up under PSDP III
against this component:
    (i) Eastern Region System Coordination and Control Project – completed in June 2005;
    (ii) Western Region System Coordination and Control Project– completed in August
         2005;
    (iii) System Strengthening-III in Southern Region Grid – completed in April 2007;
    (iv) High Capacity East-North Interconnector-II – completed in August 2007;
                                                 32
   (v) POWERGRID‟s diversification into telecom business – completed; and
   (vi) NLDC – completed in March 2009.

The implementation of spillover works (from PSDP II) for the Eastern and Western Regions
System Coordination and Control Projects has resulted in the improvement of real time grid
management and economic dispatch of power at the regional level. In addition, NLDC has been
established as an apex body to ensure integrated operation of the national power system for the
overall coordination at the national level. Further, the completion of balance elements has
facilitated the strengthening of the transmission system. The diversification into the
telecommunications sector has created a new business opportunity for the company by leveraging
its countrywide transmission network and its state-of-the-art optical fiber embedded technology.

Outcome
Growth in Power Exchange between Regions: The completion of interregional lines, namely
Agra-Gwalior 765 kV S/C line and Zerda-Kankroli 400 kV D/C that are part of NWTC
Strengthening (candidate scheme), has resulted in an increase of interregional power transfer
capacity by about 2,100 MW. The completion of the schemes has effectively increased the
interregional power transfer capacity of the grid to 23,800 MW in July 2011, which is a major
achievement in the context of the lingering major power deficits in India. In addition to these
achievements, the completion of the strengthening schemes: Seoni-Bina 765 kV S/C line, Balia-
Bhiwadi HVDC bipole line, Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad transmission system and Bina-
Gwalior 765 kV S/C line, has resulted in improving grid stability and security.

The indicator outperformed targets as set in PAD for all the years, except two years (FY2006 and
FY2007). During 2006, the actual was marginally lower by around 0.5percent (target: 35,000 MU;
actual: 34,816 MU) whereas for 2007, the actual was lower by around 0.7percent (target: 38,000
MU; actual: 37,752 MU). The targets for this indicator were never revised. Overall, power
exchange increased from 31,000 MU (2005) to 56,747 MU against a target of 52,000 MU (2011)
or an increase of 83percent (Figure A3.1).

                        Figure A3.1: Growth in power exchange among regions

                          Growth in Power Exchange between Regions
                                            (MU)
               60,000


               50,000


               40,000
                                                                                   Baseline
                                                                                   Target (MTR)
               30,000
                                                                                   Target (PAD)

               20,000                                                              Actual


               10,000


                   -
                         2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11



Completion of the NLDC: The transmission subsector benefitted immensely from a modern and
completely computerized NLDC along with the already existing Unified Load Dispatch and
Communication System in various regions. NLDC is the apex body to ensure the integrated
                                                       33
operation of the National Grid and smooth transfer of power between regions. This system also
ensures the monitoring of scheduling and dispatching of power as well as the security and
reliability of the grid and coordination among power exchanges. Considering the increased
complexity of grid operation of such a large network in the country, facilities at NLDC and five
RLDCs are being upgraded on a regular basis. As a result of POWERGRID‟s continuous effort,
the Indian power grid has not experienced any major grid disturbances in the last eight years (since
2003-04). As per GoI‟s directive, this along with other load despatch centres at regional and state
level are managed and operated by POSOCO, a fully owned subsidiary of POWERGRID.

Output
The implementation of any transmission scheme has a direct impact on the addition to the
transmission capacity measured in ckm and in the transformation capacity measured in MVA of
the transmission utility. Once the lines are commissioned, it contributes to the company‟s
transmission and transformation capacity. The same holds true for POWERGRID, the central
transmission utility in the Indian power sector, as well. Thus, these two measures were adopted as
result indicators for Component One.

Growth in Transformation Capacity (MVA): This indicator also outperformed all targets set in the
PAD, except for one year (FY2007) when it was marginally lower by less than 1 percent (target:
60,000 MVA, actual: 59,417 MVA). The targets against this indicator were not revised at all.
Overall, transformation capacity increased from 50,000 MVA (2005) to 93,050 MVA against a
target of 85,000 MVA (2011) or an increase of 86 percent (Figure A3.2).

                         Figure A3.2: Increase in transformation capacity


                                 Transformation Capacity (MVA)
              100000
               90000
               80000
               70000                                                               Baseline
               60000                                                             Target (MTR)
               50000                                                             Target (PAD)
               40000
                                                                                 Actual
               30000
               20000
               10000
                   0
                       2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11



Growth in Transmission Capacity (ckm): As can be observed from Figure A3.3, the targets as per
the PAD were met successfully for the intermediate years but its end year targets were revised
downwards by 4.7percent (from 84,000 ckm to 80,000 ckm) due to factors that impacted progress
and were outside POWERGRID‟s control . In 2010, the actual was lower than target by almost
6percent (target: 80,000 ckm; actual: 75,291 ckm). Consequently, KPI targets for transmission
capacity were revised downwards (compared to PAD targets) for FY2011 during MTR in April
2010 as the main reason for such underperformance was external factors: ROW issues and delays
in obtaining forest clearances, especially after GoI‟s notification regarding FRA in August 2009
under which the project implementing authority (here, POWERGRID) had to take a no objection
document from every Gram Sabha (at the village level) for all proposals involving diversion of
forest land under the Forest (Conservation) Act. POWERGRID was able to successfully achieve
the revised target. Since the same indicators are being measured under PSDP IV and PSDP V, the
World Bank has agreed to closely monitor the achievement of the revised targets as well as the end
                                                      34
year target (FY2015) for PSDP V, which remains unchanged from its original target because of
POWERGRID‟s assurance on having taken the right measures to address past ROW issues.
Overall transmission capacity increased from 51,000 ckm (2005) to 82,355 ckm against a target of
80,000 ckm (2011) or an increase of 61 percent.

                              Figure A3.3: Increase in transmission capacity

                                       Transmission Capacity (ckm)
                   90000
                   80000
                   70000
                   60000                                                              Baseline
                                                                                     Target (MTR)
                   50000
                   40000                                                             Target (PAD)
                   30000                                                             Actual
                   20000
                   10000
                      0
                           2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11




Other Key Developments at Entity Level
Some other key developments that took place at the entity level during the implementation of the
project are:

  (i)      POWERGRID was conferred the „Navratna‟ status by GoI in May 2008, implying a
           greater commercial and financial autonomy for the company;
  (ii)     POWERGRID entered the capital market with an IPO during FY 2008 with 10
           percent of fresh issue of existing paid-up capital along with the divestment of 5
           percent of GoI‟s shareholding. In the post issue scenario, GoI‟s holding stood at
           86.36 percent with the balance held by the public;
  (iii)    In FY2011, POWERGRID floated an FPO comprising fresh issue of 10 percent paid-
           up capital along with divestment of 10 percent of GoI‟s shareholding. The FPO
           received overwhelming response and was oversubscribed by 14.84 times reflecting
           sound corporate governance policies of the company. In the post issue scenario,
           GoI‟s holding stands at 69.42 percent with the balance being held by the public;
  (iv)     POWERGRID established and commissioned the NLDC in February 2009, as the
           apex structure for national grid management and operation.              According to
           POWERGRID, this four-tier system is a complex and globally unique mode of grid
           operation. It minimizes grid disturbances and facilitates quick restoration in case of
           failure;
  (v)      Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO) was constituted as a fully
           owned subsidiary of POWERGRID in March 2009 and this step represented the
           beginning of the separation of the role of the system operator from that of the central
           transmission utility, owner of transmission assets;
  (vi)     POWERGRID‟s ESPP were adopted by the World Bank as a pilot under UCS (OP
           4.00). This was formally adopted under PSDP V;
  (vii)    POWERGRID developed a CSR Policy; and
  (viii)   POWERGRID is the first amongst the World Bank‟s clients in India to have prepared
           a Sustainability Report in 2009, covering its environmental and social performance.
                                                          35
The Company has also undertaken the development of certain transmission lines with private
parties through establishing public-private JVs. As on March 31, 2011, POWERGRID had
established the following JVs:
   (i) Powerlinks Transmission Limited (POWERLINKS) is a JV between POWERGRID and
          Tata Power that hold 49% and 51%, respectively. This was POWERGRID‟s first public-
          private partnership in power transmission. The JV was incorporated to undertake the
          implementation of transmission lines associated with Tala hydropower plant, East-North
          interconnector, and Northern Region Transmission System from Siliguri in West Bengal
          via Bihar to Uttar Pradesh in the Northern region.
   (ii) JAYPEE POWERGRID Limited (JPL) is a JV between Jaiprakash Power Ventures
          Limited and POWERGRID with a holding of 74% and 26%, respectively. This JV was
          incorporated to evacuate power from 1,000 MW Karcham-Wangtoo hydropower plant in
          Himachal Pradesh in the Northern Region.
   (iii) Torrent Powergrid Limited (TPL) is a JV between POWERGRID and Torrent Power
          Limited with a holding of 26% and 74%, respectively. This JV was incorporated to
          establish a transmission system associated with 1,100 MW Sugen Gasbased power plant
          in Gujarat in the Western Region.
   (iv) Parbati Koldam Transmission Company Limited (PKTCL) is a JV between Reliance
          Energy Limited (now, Reliance Infra) and POWERGRID with a holding of 74% and
          26%, respectively. This JV was incorporated to establish a transmission network
          associated with the 800 MW Parbati II hydropower plant and the 800 MW Koldam
          hydropower plant in the Northern Region.
   (v) Teestavalley Power Transmission Limited (TPTL) is a JV between Teesta Urja Limited
          and POWERGRID with a holding of 74% and 26%, respectively. This JV was
          incorporated to establish transmission lines associated with the Teesta III hydropower
          plant in Sikkim in the North-eastern region.
   (vi) North-East Transmission Company Limited (NETC) is a JV between POWERGRID and
          ONGC Tripura Power Project Company Limited (OPTC), Government of Tripura,
          Manipur, Mizoram, Assam Electricity Grid Corporation Limited and Meghalaya for the
          establishment of a transmission line associated with the 726 MW Palatana Gas based
          power project in Tripura. POWERGRID holds a 26% equity share in the JV.
   (vii) National High Power Test Laboratory Private Limited (NHPTLPL) is a JV between
          POWERGRID, National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Limited, National Hydro
          Power Corporation (NHPC) Limited and Damodar Valley Corporation with an equal
          participation. The JV was incorporated to set up an Online High Power Test Laboratory
          for short circuit test facility in the country.
   (viii) Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) is a JV between POWERGRID, NPTC
          Limited, Power Finance Corporation (PFC) Limited, and Rural Electrification
          Corporation (REC) Limited with an equal participation. The JV is set up to promote
          measures of energy efficiency and energy conservation to reduce climate change.




                                              36
                         Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis

The schemes funded under the loan were categorized into „core‟ and „candidate‟ schemes. „Core‟
schemes were those that were ready for implementation immediately after effectiveness whereas
„candidate‟ schemes were to be selected during the course of the project depending on their
readiness for implementation. During the appraisal, economic and financial analysis of only core
schemes was presented. For the candidate schemes, such analysis was carried out during review
and approval of the project implementation plan of each scheme. The sections below present the
analysis for both core and candidate schemes as well as the financial analysis for the entity.

Economic Analysis
As mentioned above, during appraisal, the economic analysis of only three core schemes (Seoni-
Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad, Balia-Bhiwadi, and Seoni-Bina transmission systems) was carried
out. The economic analysis below also presents the analysis for two candidate schemes (WRSS II
and NWTC).

ERR calculations were based on certain assumptions (discussed later) and their values were
compared with the opportunity cost of the capital of 12 percent for projects to be financed in India.
ERR, after completion of the schemes, was calculated using the same methodology adopted during
the appraisal. The scheme-wise ERR at the time of PAD (two cases: a) base case; and b) extreme
case where cost escalation by 20 percent, delay in project commissioning by two years, ROE is
lower by 1 percent and foreign exchange rate is lower by 10 percent) is compared with that at
completion.

                            Table A4.1: Economic analysis of schemes

   Name of the       ERR as in     ERR as in PAD/PIP        ERR                 Remarks
    Scheme           PAD/PIP       (Cost Escalation by     at ICR
                       (Base         20%, Delay of 2
                       Case)             Years)
Seoni-Wardha-         15.96%             11.06%            12.03%   The commissioning of this
Akola-Aurangabad                                                    scheme was delayed by almost
                                                                    1.5 years
Balia-Bhiwadi         14.83%              10.46%           18.33%   Outperformed
Seoni-Bina            15.02%              10.59%           14.46%   The commissioning of the
                                                                    scheme was delayed by almost 6
                                                                    months
WRSS II (Bina-        22.44%              17.57%           14.56%   ERR cannot be compared as the
Gwalior)                                                            PIP calculated ERR for entire
                                                                    WRSS-II scheme whereas ERR
                                                                    at completion is for only Bina-
                                                                    Gwalior line
NWTC                  21.98%              15.52%           23.85%   Outperformed

As can be observed from Table A4.1, two of the five schemes outperformed the base case scenario.
Also, ERR for all schemes is higher than the opportunity cost of capital (12 percent), implying that
these schemes were economically viable.

The Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC bipole transmission system has facilitated the transfer of bulk power
across the regions. Even though the commissioning of the entire scheme (HVDC line, Pole I and
Pole II) is deferred due to a delay in the manufacturing of converter transformers by the contractor
at Bhiwadi terminal, commissioning of the HVDC line and Pole I has facilitated exchange of bulk
power between the Northern and Eastern Regions. Most generation projects were/are planned in
                                                   37
the Eastern Region whereas the load centers are located in the Western Region. Bridging the
demand-supply gap through this line has resulted in an ERR of 18.33 percent compared to 14.83
percent estimated during appraisal for this scheme.

Regarding the NWTC, the ERR of 23.85 percent is higher than the 21.98 percent estimated under
the base case during appraisal. The two interregional lines under this scheme have enhanced the
interregional power transfer capacity of the National Grid by almost 2,100 MW. These lines along
with the extension of the substations have also brought stability and reliability to the Indian power
system. The importance of this scheme is thus reflected in a very robust ERR.

For the Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad transmission system, the ERR at completion (12.09
percent) is lower than the base case (15.96 percent) but marginally higher than the opportunity cost
of capital. The reasons for the lower ERR can be attributed to delays in commissioning of the
scheme by almost 1.5 years (target: June 2008; actual: November 2009), caused by delayed
availability of the downstream network and commissioning of the Akola and Aurangabad
substations, end nodes of the lines, to be made available by MSEB. These substations, without
which the investments in POWERGRID‟s system would have been rendered useless, were not
completed on time. To match the commissioning of the downstream network, the commissioning
of this system was also adjusted. As a result, there was a cost escalation of almost 30 percent since
the appraisal (estimated value at PAD: INR 7,393 million; actual completion cost: INR 9,774
million). This has negatively influenced the ERR of the scheme and, thus, it is lower than the base
case.

The ERR at completion for the 765 kV Seoni-Bina transmission line is 14.46 percent, marginally
lower than that in base case at appraisal (15.02 percent). The main reason for this was a delay in
commissioning by almost six months. The line was envisaged to be commissioned by September
2009 but could be commissioned only in March 2010. The main reason for the delay was the late
forest clearance. It took almost four years for POWERGRID to obtain the forest clearance for this
scheme. The major factor in this delay was a stay in 2006 by the Supreme Court of India on the
reconstitution of FAC that plays an important role in clearing the forest proposals. This stay was
lifted in 2007 but with a condition that all recommendations of the FAC shall be approved by the
Supreme Court, thus lengthening the approval process. Moreover, this line is initially charged at
400 kV, later to be upgraded to 765 kV. In any case, this project has resulted in power transfer
from the power surplus Eastern Region to the power deficit Western Region.

The WRSS II scheme is a cluster of four sets of transmission lines of which two sets were to be
implemented by POWERGRID and the other two sets by 100 percent private players. All
substations under all sets were to be implemented by POWERGRID. ERR at completion (14.56
percent) is not comparable to ERR at appraisal because, at that time, ERR for the entire scheme
was calculated whereas at completion ERR of only one line funded under PSDP III (Bina-Gwalior)
has been undertaken. The ERR of the entire system will always be higher than a standalone
transmission line and, thus, we cannot compare the two ERRs. Like the Seoni-Bina transmission
line, this line too is being charged at 400 kV, later to be upgraded to 765 kV.

The same methodology as used during the appraisal was adopted to carry out the economic
analysis at completion as well. During the project implementation period, the tariff norms as issued
by CERC were revised in 2009 effective over a period of five years (2009-14). Any scheme of a
centrally owned utility, to be commissioned during this period, has to apply CERC tariff norms.
Revenue from tariff as calculated under CERC tariff norms 2009 (at completion) is higher than that
under CERC tariff norms 2004 (at appraisal). The changes include: (i) scraping of advance against
depreciation (AAD); (ii) rate of ROE increased from 14 to 15.5 percent; (iii) additional 0.5 percent

                                                 38
ROE to be available on timely completion of the project; (iv) rate of depreciation increased from
around 3.6; to 5.28 percent; and (v) upward revision of O&M rates.

Further, since the load flow studies for each line is carried out during transmission planning, the
MW of power saved by implementing these lines was assumed at the same level at the time of
appraisal or at the time of PIP approval. To quantify the economic benefits, for three of the five
schemes located in the Western Region (Seoni-Bina, Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad, and
WRSS II), an average cost of generation projects is taken as INR 3.63 per unit. For the Balia-
Bhiwadi HVDC system, the average cost of generation projects in the Northern Region is taken as
INR 3.14 per unit whereas, for NWTC, an average cost of generation projects in Northern and
Western Regions is taken as INR 3.17 per unit. The exchange rate of (US$1 = INR 43) used was
the same as that during appraisal to nullify the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate.

Detailed calculations for the various schemes are presented in Table A4.2:

                     Table A4.2: Detailed economic analysis of the schemes




                                                39
Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad

                                                                                                                       (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                                                   INFLOW                                        OUTFLOW
       Sl. No.               Year                                                                                                       Net Benefit
                                           * Revenue due to reduction                                   Interest on
                                                                         Capital Cost    O&M Cost                      Total Outflow
                                             in losses in the system                                       W.C.

           0                        2007                          -            1362.29            -              -           1,362.29     (1,362.29)
           1                        2008                          -            4208.34            -              -           4,208.34     (4,208.34)
           2                        2009                          -            1764.27            -              -           1,764.27     (1,764.27)
           3                        2010                       987.01           221.46          84.85          78.14           384.45        602.56
           4                        2011                     1,316.01           222.13         119.62         104.19           445.94        870.07
           5                        2012                     1,316.01             0.67         126.46         104.19           231.32      1,084.69
           6                        2013                     1,316.01             0.00         133.71         104.19           237.89      1,078.12
           7                        2014                     1,316.01             0.00         141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
           8                        2015                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
           9                        2016                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          10                        2017                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          11                        2018                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          12                        2019                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          13                        2020                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          14                        2021                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          15                        2022                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          16                        2023                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          17                        2024                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          18                        2025                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          19                        2026                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          20                        2027                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          21                        2028                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          22                        2029                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          23                        2030                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          24                        2031                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          25                        2032                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          26                        2033                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          27                        2034                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          28                        2035                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          29                        2036                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          30                        2037                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          31                        2038                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          32                        2039                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          33                        2040                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          34                        2041                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          35                        2042                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          36                        2043                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          37                        2044                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          38                        2045                     1,316.01                          141.33         104.19           245.51      1,070.50
          39                        2046                          -                               -              -                -             -
          40                        2047                          -                               -              -                -             -
          41                        2048                          -                               -              -                -             -
                                                                        Rate Of Return                                                   12.03%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                          40
Balia-Bhiwadi

                                                                                                          (R s. Million)
                                                            Costs Associated With the Scheme
                                      INFLOW                                        OUTFLOW
     Sl. No.    Year                                                                                                       Net Benefit
                              * Revenue due to reduction                                   Interest on
                                                            Capital Cost    O&M Cost                      Total Outflow
                                in losses in the system                                       W.C.

        0              2007                          -            2424.55            -              -           2,424.55     (2,424.55)
        1              2008                          -            3713.83            -              -           3,713.83     (3,713.83)
        2              2009                          -            1417.23            -              -           1,417.23     (1,417.23)
        3              2010                          -              70.26            -              -              70.26        (70.26)
        4              2011                     1,179.11            21.40          39.26          39.13            99.79      1,079.32
        5              2012                     2,358.22            10.70          83.03          78.25           171.98      2,186.23
        6              2013                     2,358.22             0.00          87.77          78.25           166.02      2,192.19
        7              2014                     2,358.22             0.00          92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
        8              2015                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
        9              2016                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       10              2017                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       11              2018                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       12              2019                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       13              2020                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       14              2021                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       15              2022                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       16              2023                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       17              2024                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       18              2025                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       19              2026                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       20              2027                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       21              2028                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       22              2029                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       23              2030                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       24              2031                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       25              2032                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       26              2033                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       27              2034                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       28              2035                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       29              2036                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       30              2037                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       31              2038                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       32              2039                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       33              2040                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       34              2041                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       35              2042                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       36              2043                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       37              2044                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       38              2045                     2,358.22                           92.75          78.25           171.00      2,187.22
       39              2046                          -                               -              -                -             -
       40              2047                          -                               -              -                -             -
       41              2048                          -                               -              -                -             -
                                                           Rate Of Return                                                   18.33%




                                                             41
Seoni-Bina

                                                                                                                       (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                                                   INFLOW                                        OUTFLOW
       Sl. No.               Year                                                                                                       Net Benefit
                                           * Revenue due to reduction                                   Interest on
                                                                         Capital Cost    O&M Cost                      Total Outflow
                                             in losses in the system                                       W.C.

           0                        2007                         -              509.83            -              -             509.83       (509.83)
           1                        2008                         -             2005.96            -              -           2,005.96     (2,005.96)
           2                        2009                         -              469.54            -              -             469.54       (469.54)
           3                        2010                         -                9.03            -              -               9.03         (9.03)
           4                        2011                      623.56             61.82          16.59          21.90           100.30        523.25
           5                        2012                      623.56              0.00          17.52          21.90            39.42        584.14
           6                        2013                      623.56              0.00          18.54          21.90            40.44        583.11
           7                        2014                      623.56              0.00          19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
           8                        2015                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
           9                        2016                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          10                        2017                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          11                        2018                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          12                        2019                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          13                        2020                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          14                        2021                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          15                        2022                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          16                        2023                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          17                        2024                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          18                        2025                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          19                        2026                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          20                        2027                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          21                        2028                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          22                        2029                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          23                        2030                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          24                        2031                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          25                        2032                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          26                        2033                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          27                        2034                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          28                        2035                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          29                        2036                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          30                        2037                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          31                        2038                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          32                        2039                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          33                        2040                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          34                        2041                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          35                        2042                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          36                        2043                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          37                        2044                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          38                        2045                      623.56                            19.59          21.90            41.49        582.06
          39                        2046                         -                                -              -                -             -
          40                        2047                         -                                -              -                -             -
          41                        2048                         -                                -              -                -             -
                                                                        Rate Of Return                                                   14.46%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                          42
WRSS II (Bina-Gwalior)

                                                                                                                       (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                                                   INFLOW                                        OUTFLOW
       Sl. No.               Year                                                                                                       Net Benefit
                                           * Revenue due to reduction                                   Interest on
                                                                         Capital Cost    O&M Cost                      Total Outflow
                                             in losses in the system                                       W.C.

           0                        2007                         -              183.18            -              -             183.18       (183.18)
           1                        2008                         -             1223.72            -              -           1,223.72     (1,223.72)
           2                        2009                         -              694.01            -              -             694.01       (694.01)
           3                        2010                       37.05            145.41           1.05           1.40           147.86       (110.81)
           4                        2011                      444.61             26.44          13.35          16.81            56.60        388.02
           5                        2012                      444.61              0.00          14.10          16.81            30.91        413.70
           6                        2013                      444.61              0.00          14.92          16.81            31.73        412.88
           7                        2014                      444.61              0.00          15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
           8                        2015                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
           9                        2016                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          10                        2017                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          11                        2018                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          12                        2019                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          13                        2020                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          14                        2021                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          15                        2022                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          16                        2023                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          17                        2024                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          18                        2025                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          19                        2026                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          20                        2027                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          21                        2028                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          22                        2029                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          23                        2030                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          24                        2031                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          25                        2032                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          26                        2033                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          27                        2034                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          28                        2035                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          29                        2036                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          30                        2037                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          31                        2038                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          32                        2039                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          33                        2040                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          34                        2041                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          35                        2042                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          36                        2043                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          37                        2044                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          38                        2045                      444.61                            15.77          16.81            32.58        412.03
          39                        2046                         -                                -              -                -             -
          40                        2047                         -                                -              -                -             -
          41                        2048                         -                                -              -                -             -
                                                                        Rate Of Return                                                   14.56%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                          43
NWTC

                                                                                                                       (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                                                   INFLOW                                        OUTFLOW
       Sl. No.               Year                                                                                                       Net Benefit
                                           * Revenue due to reduction                                   Interest on
                                                                         Capital Cost    O&M Cost                      Total Outflow
                                             in losses in the system                                       W.C.

           0                        2007                          -             705.28            -              -             705.28       (705.28)
           1                        2008                          -            2084.79            -              -           2,084.79     (2,084.79)
           2                        2009                          -             173.92            -              -             173.92       (173.92)
           3                        2010                     1,103.83            36.14          55.35          49.57           141.06        962.76
           4                        2011                     1,103.83           437.62          58.53          49.57           545.72        558.10
           5                        2012                     1,103.83             1.13          61.87          49.57           112.57        991.25
           6                        2013                     1,103.83             0.00          65.41          49.57           114.99        988.84
           7                        2014                     1,103.83             0.00          69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
           8                        2015                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
           9                        2016                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          10                        2017                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          11                        2018                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          12                        2019                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          13                        2020                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          14                        2021                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          15                        2022                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          16                        2023                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          17                        2024                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          18                        2025                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          19                        2026                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          20                        2027                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          21                        2028                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          22                        2029                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          23                        2030                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          24                        2031                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          25                        2032                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          26                        2033                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          27                        2034                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          28                        2035                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          29                        2036                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          30                        2037                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          31                        2038                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          32                        2039                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          33                        2040                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          34                        2041                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          35                        2042                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          36                        2043                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          37                        2044                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          38                        2045                     1,103.83                           69.14          49.57           118.71        985.11
          39                        2046                          -                               -              -                -             -
          40                        2047                          -                               -              -                -             -
          41                        2048                          -                               -              -                -             -
                                                                        Rate Of Return                                                   23.85%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




Financial Analysis - Schemes
The financial analysis is presented for both core and candidate schemes. The rate of ROE was
considered as a proxy for financial analysis of the schemes. The same proxy was used during the
appraisal as well. ROE of the schemes has been calculated using the same methodology as during
the appraisal. The scheme-wise ROE at the time of PAD (two cases: a) base case; and b) extreme
case where cost escalation by 20 percent, delay in project commissioning by two years, ROE is
lower by 1 percent and foreign exchange rate is lower by 10 percent) is compared with that at
completion.




                                                                          44
                           Table A4.3: Financial analysis of schemes

   Name of the      ROE as in     ROE as in PAD / PIP      ROE                Remarks
    Scheme          PAD/PIP        (Cost Escalation by    at ICR
                     (Base       20%, Delay of 2 years,
                     Case)        ROE Lower by 1%)
Seoni-Wardha-         13.36%             10.65%           23.09%   Outperformed in all the cases.
Akola-Aurangabad                                                   Main reason is revisions in CERC
Balia-Bhiwadi           12.37%           10.19%           15.76%   tariff norms under which ROE
Seoni-Bina              12.37%           10.20%           19.20%   was increased from 14% (2004
WRSS II (Bina-          13.19%           10.76%           20.02%   norms) to 15.5% (2009 norms).
Gwalior)
NWTC                    13.70%           11.25%           25.96%

In all the cases, ROE was much higher than the base case. Amongst others, the main reason for this
is the revision in CERC tariff norms, as mentioned in the section above. Under the revised tariff
norms, ROE has been increased from 14 to 15.5 percent. All the schemes have an ROE higher than
15.5 percent. Thus, the schemes are financially robust.

Detailed calculations for the various schemes are provided in Table A4.4:

                     Table A4.4: Detailed financial analysis of the schemes




                                                  45
Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad

                                                                                                                                            (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                              INFLOW                                                        OUTFLOW

Sl. No.      Year          Revenue (Yearly
                                                                                Interest on    Interest         Debt
                            Transmission        Equity         O&M Cost                                                    Total Outflow      Net Benefit
                                                                                   W.C.        Charges       Repayment
                              Charges)

     0              2007                -             463.08             -               -            -              -            463.08             (463.08)
     1              2008                -            1448.51             -               -            -              -          1,448.51           (1,448.51)
     2              2009                -             673.22             -               -            -              -            673.22             (673.22)
     3              2010             913.77           172.05           84.85           78.14          -              -            335.04              578.73
     4              2011           1,531.59           175.20          119.62          104.19          -              -            399.01            1,132.57
     5              2012           1,491.65             0.22          126.46          104.19       290.42         242.02          763.31              728.34
     6              2013           1,486.80             0.00          133.71          104.19       278.32         242.02          758.23              728.57
     7              2014           1,482.32             0.00          141.33          104.19       266.22         242.02          753.75              728.57
     8              2015           1,470.22                           141.33          104.19       254.12         242.02          741.65              728.57
     9              2016           1,458.12                           141.33          104.19       242.02         242.02          729.55              728.57
    10              2017           1,446.02                           141.33          104.19       229.92         242.02          717.45              728.57
    11              2018           1,433.92                           141.33          104.19       217.82         242.02          705.35              728.57
    12              2019           1,421.81                           141.33          104.19       205.72         242.02          693.25              728.57
    13              2020           1,409.71                           141.33          104.19       193.61         242.02          681.15              728.57
    14              2021           1,397.61                           141.33          104.19       181.51         242.02          669.04              728.57
    15              2022             982.64                           141.33          104.19       169.41         242.02          656.94              325.70
    16              2023             970.54                           141.33          104.19       157.31         242.02          644.84              325.70
    17              2024             958.44                           141.33          104.19       145.21         242.02          632.74              325.70
    18              2025             946.34                           141.33          104.19       133.11         242.02          620.64              325.70
    19              2026             934.24                           141.33          104.19       121.01         242.02          608.54              325.70
    20              2027             922.14                           141.33          104.19       108.91         242.02          596.44              325.70
    21              2028             910.04                           141.33          104.19        96.81         242.02          584.34              325.70
    22              2029             897.94                           141.33          104.19        84.71         242.02          572.24              325.70
    23              2030             885.83                           141.33          104.19        72.61         242.02          560.14              325.70
    24              2031             873.73                           141.33          104.19        60.50         242.02          548.04              325.70
    25              2032             861.63                           141.33          104.19        48.40         242.02          535.93              325.70
    26              2033             849.53                           141.33          104.19        36.30         242.02          523.83              325.70
    27              2034             837.43                           141.33          104.19        24.20         242.02          511.73              325.70
    28              2035             825.33                           141.33          104.19        12.10         242.02          499.63              325.70
    29              2036             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)        242.02          487.53              325.70
    30              2037             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    31              2038             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    32              2039             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    33              2040             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    34              2041             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    35              2042             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    36              2043             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    37              2044             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    38              2045             813.23                           141.33          104.19        (0.00)           -            245.51              567.72
    39              2046                -                                -               -          (0.00)           -             (0.00)               0.00
    40              2047                -                                -               -          (0.00)           -             (0.00)               0.00
    41              2048                -                                -               -          (0.00)           -             (0.00)               0.00
                                                       2932.29 Rate Of Return                                                                       23.09%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                           46
Balia-Bhiwadi

                                                                                                                                          (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                              INFLOW                                                        OUTFLOW

Sl. No.      Year          Revenue (Yearly
                                                                                Interest on    Interest        Debt
                            Transmission        Equity         O&M Cost                                                   Total Outflow     Net Benefit
                                                                                   W.C.        Charges      Repayment
                              Charges)

     0              2007                -             824.37             -               -            -             -            824.37            (824.37)
     1              2008                -            1295.09             -               -            -             -          1,295.09          (1,295.09)
     2              2009                -             563.81             -               -            -             -            563.81            (563.81)
     3              2010                -             124.74             -               -            -             -            124.74            (124.74)
     4              2011             450.77           109.07           39.26           39.13          -             -            187.46             263.31
     5              2012           1,413.91             3.57           83.03           78.25       285.90        238.25          688.99             724.92
     6              2013           1,406.74             0.00           87.77           78.25       273.99        238.25          678.25             728.49
     7              2014           1,399.81             0.00           92.75           78.25       262.07        238.25          671.32             728.49
     8              2015           1,387.89                            92.75           78.25       250.16        238.25          659.41             728.49
     9              2016           1,375.98                            92.75           78.25       238.25        238.25          647.49             728.49
    10              2017           1,364.07                            92.75           78.25       226.34        238.25          635.58             728.49
    11              2018           1,352.16                            92.75           78.25       214.42        238.25          623.67             728.49
    12              2019           1,340.24                            92.75           78.25       202.51        238.25          611.76             728.49
    13              2020           1,328.33                            92.75           78.25       190.60        238.25          599.84             728.49
    14              2021           1,316.42                            92.75           78.25       178.69        238.25          587.93             728.49
    15              2022           1,304.51                            92.75           78.25       166.77        238.25          576.02             728.49
    16              2023             891.32                            92.75           78.25       154.86        238.25          564.11             327.22
    17              2024             879.41                            92.75           78.25       142.95        238.25          552.19             327.22
    18              2025             867.50                            92.75           78.25       131.04        238.25          540.28             327.22
    19              2026             855.59                            92.75           78.25       119.12        238.25          528.37             327.22
    20              2027             843.67                            92.75           78.25       107.21        238.25          516.46             327.22
    21              2028             831.76                            92.75           78.25        95.30        238.25          504.55             327.22
    22              2029             819.85                            92.75           78.25        83.39        238.25          492.63             327.22
    23              2030             807.94                            92.75           78.25        71.47        238.25          480.72             327.22
    24              2031             796.02                            92.75           78.25        59.56        238.25          468.81             327.22
    25              2032             784.11                            92.75           78.25        47.65        238.25          456.90             327.22
    26              2033             772.20                            92.75           78.25        35.74        238.25          444.98             327.22
    27              2034             760.29                            92.75           78.25        23.82        238.25          433.07             327.22
    28              2035             748.37                            92.75           78.25        11.91        238.25          421.16             327.22
    29              2036             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00        238.25          409.25             327.22
    30              2037             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    31              2038             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    32              2039             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    33              2040             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    34              2041             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    35              2042             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    36              2043             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    37              2044             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    38              2045             736.46                            92.75           78.25         0.00           -            171.00             565.46
    39              2046                -                                -               -           0.00           -              0.00              (0.00)
    40              2047                -                                -               -           0.00           -              0.00              (0.00)
    41              2048                -                                -               -           0.00           -              0.00              (0.00)
                                                       2920.65 Rate Of Return                                                                     15.76%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                           47
Seoni-Bina

                                                                                                                                         (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                              INFLOW                                                        OUTFLOW

Sl. No.      Year          Revenue (Yearly
                                                                                Interest on    Interest        Debt
                            Transmission        Equity         O&M Cost                                                  Total Outflow     Net Benefit
                                                                                   W.C.        Charges      Repayment
                              Charges)

     0              2007               -              173.32             -               -            -            -            173.32            (173.32)
     1              2008               -              688.72             -               -            -            -            688.72            (688.72)
     2              2009               -              193.01             -               -            -            -            193.01            (193.01)
     3              2010               -               42.68             -               -            -            -             42.68             (42.68)
     4              2011            555.73             60.74           16.59           21.90          -            -             99.23             456.50
     5              2012            536.97              0.00           17.52           21.90       114.10        95.08          248.60             288.37
     6              2013            533.24              0.00           18.54           21.90       109.34        95.08          244.87             288.37
     7              2014            529.54              0.00           19.59           21.90       104.59        95.08          241.16             288.37
     8              2015            524.78                             19.59           21.90        99.84        95.08          236.41             288.37
     9              2016            520.03                             19.59           21.90        95.08        95.08          231.65             288.37
    10              2017            515.27                             19.59           21.90        90.33        95.08          226.90             288.37
    11              2018            510.52                             19.59           21.90        85.57        95.08          222.15             288.37
    12              2019            505.77                             19.59           21.90        80.82        95.08          217.39             288.37
    13              2020            501.01                             19.59           21.90        76.06        95.08          212.64             288.37
    14              2021            496.26                             19.59           21.90        71.31        95.08          207.88             288.37
    15              2022            491.50                             19.59           21.90        66.56        95.08          203.13             288.37
    16              2023            327.59                             19.59           21.90        61.80        95.08          198.38             129.21
    17              2024            322.83                             19.59           21.90        57.05        95.08          193.62             129.21
    18              2025            318.08                             19.59           21.90        52.29        95.08          188.87             129.21
    19              2026            313.32                             19.59           21.90        47.54        95.08          184.11             129.21
    20              2027            308.57                             19.59           21.90        42.79        95.08          179.36             129.21
    21              2028            303.82                             19.59           21.90        38.03        95.08          174.61             129.21
    22              2029            299.06                             19.59           21.90        33.28        95.08          169.85             129.21
    23              2030            294.31                             19.59           21.90        28.52        95.08          165.10             129.21
    24              2031            289.55                             19.59           21.90        23.77        95.08          160.34             129.21
    25              2032            284.80                             19.59           21.90        19.02        95.08          155.59             129.21
    26              2033            280.05                             19.59           21.90        14.26        95.08          150.84             129.21
    27              2034            275.29                             19.59           21.90         9.51        95.08          146.08             129.21
    28              2035            270.54                             19.59           21.90         4.75        95.08          141.33             129.21
    29              2036            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00        95.08          136.57             129.21
    30              2037            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    31              2038            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    32              2039            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    33              2040            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    34              2041            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    35              2042            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    36              2043            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    37              2044            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    38              2045            265.78                             19.59           21.90         0.00          -             41.49             224.29
    39              2046               -                                 -               -           0.00          -              0.00              (0.00)
    40              2047               -                                 -               -           0.00          -              0.00              (0.00)
    41              2048               -                                 -               -           0.00          -              0.00              (0.00)
                                                       1158.47 Rate Of Return                                                                    19.20%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                           48
WRSS II (Bina-Gwalior)

                                                                                                                                               (R s. Million)
                                                                            Costs Associated With the Scheme
                               INFLOW                                                          OUTFLOW

Sl. No.       Year          Revenue (Yearly
                                                                                    Interest on    Interest         Debt
                             Transmission          Equity           O&M Cost                                                  Total Outflow      Net Benefit
                                                                                       W.C.        Charges       Repayment
                               Charges)

     0               2007               -                   62.26           -                -            -             -             62.26              (62.26)
     1               2008               -                  418.32           -                -            -             -            418.32             (418.32)
     2               2009               -                  254.30           -                -            -             -            254.30             (254.30)
     3               2010             10.06                 76.93          1.05             1.40          -             -             79.38              (69.32)
     4               2011            410.19                 38.40         13.35            16.81          -             -             68.56              341.63
     5               2012            397.18                  0.00         14.10            16.81        84.85         70.71          186.47              210.71
     6               2013            394.46                  0.00         14.92            16.81        81.31         70.71          183.75              210.71
     7               2014            391.77                  0.00         15.77            16.81        77.78         70.71          181.07              210.71
     8               2015            388.24                               15.77            16.81        74.24         70.71          177.53              210.71
     9               2016            384.70                               15.77            16.81        70.71         70.71          173.99              210.71
    10               2017            381.17                               15.77            16.81        67.17         70.71          170.46              210.71
    11               2018            377.63                               15.77            16.81        63.64         70.71          166.92              210.71
    12               2019            374.10                               15.77            16.81        60.10         70.71          163.39              210.71
    13               2020            370.56                               15.77            16.81        56.57         70.71          159.85              210.71
    14               2021            367.03                               15.77            16.81        53.03         70.71          156.32              210.71
    15               2022            246.68                               15.77            16.81        49.50         70.71          152.78               93.90
    16               2023            243.15                               15.77            16.81        45.96         70.71          149.25               93.90
    17               2024            239.61                               15.77            16.81        42.42         70.71          145.71               93.90
    18               2025            236.07                               15.77            16.81        38.89         70.71          142.18               93.90
    19               2026            232.54                               15.77            16.81        35.35         70.71          138.64               93.90
    20               2027            229.00                               15.77            16.81        31.82         70.71          135.11               93.90
    21               2028            225.47                               15.77            16.81        28.28         70.71          131.57               93.90
    22               2029            221.93                               15.77            16.81        24.75         70.71          128.03               93.90
    23               2030            218.40                               15.77            16.81        21.21         70.71          124.50               93.90
    24               2031            214.86                               15.77            16.81        17.68         70.71          120.96               93.90
    25               2032            211.33                               15.77            16.81        14.14         70.71          117.43               93.90
    26               2033            207.79                               15.77            16.81        10.61         70.71          113.89               93.90
    27               2034            204.26                               15.77            16.81         7.07         70.71          110.36               93.90
    28               2035            200.72                               15.77            16.81         3.54         70.71          106.82               93.90
    29               2036            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)        70.71          103.29               93.90
    30               2037            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    31               2038            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    32               2039            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    33               2040            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    34               2041            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    35               2042            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    36               2043            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    37               2044            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    38               2045            197.18                               15.77            16.81        (0.00)          -             32.58              164.61
    39               2046               -                                   -                -          (0.00)          -             (0.00)               0.00
    40               2047               -                                   -                -          (0.00)          -             (0.00)               0.00
    41               2048               -                                   -                -          (0.00)          -             (0.00)               0.00
                                                           850.20 Rate Of Return                                                                       20.02%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.




                                                                               49
NWTC

                                                                                                                                            (R s. Million)
                                                                         Costs Associated With the Scheme
                              INFLOW                                                         OUTFLOW

Sl. No.      Year          Revenue (Yearly
                                                                                Interest on    Interest         Debt
                            Transmission        Equity         O&M Cost                                                    Total Outflow      Net Benefit
                                                                                   W.C.        Charges       Repayment
                              Charges)

     0              2007               -              239.74             -               -            -              -            239.74             (239.74)
     1              2008               -              717.94             -               -            -              -            717.94             (717.94)
     2              2009               -               95.85             -               -            -              -             95.85              (95.85)
     3              2010            663.91             51.30           55.35           49.57          -              -            156.23              507.69
     4              2011            677.48            188.25           58.53           49.57          -              -            296.35              381.13
     5              2012            667.96              0.38           61.87           49.57       128.38         106.99          347.19              320.77
     6              2013            666.15              0.00           65.41           49.57       123.04         106.99          345.01              321.14
     7              2014            664.53              0.00           69.14           49.57       117.69         106.99          343.39              321.14
     8              2015            659.18                             69.14           49.57       112.34         106.99          338.04              321.14
     9              2016            653.83                             69.14           49.57       106.99         106.99          332.69              321.14
    10              2017            648.48                             69.14           49.57       101.64         106.99          327.34              321.14
    11              2018            643.13                             69.14           49.57        96.29         106.99          321.99              321.14
    12              2019            637.78                             69.14           49.57        90.94         106.99          316.64              321.14
    13              2020            632.43                             69.14           49.57        85.59         106.99          311.29              321.14
    14              2021            627.09                             69.14           49.57        80.24         106.99          305.94              321.14
    15              2022            444.03                             69.14           49.57        74.89         106.99          300.59              143.44
    16              2023            438.68                             69.14           49.57        69.54         106.99          295.24              143.44
    17              2024            433.33                             69.14           49.57        64.19         106.99          289.89              143.44
    18              2025            427.98                             69.14           49.57        58.84         106.99          284.54              143.44
    19              2026            422.63                             69.14           49.57        53.49         106.99          279.19              143.44
    20              2027            417.28                             69.14           49.57        48.14         106.99          273.84              143.44
    21              2028            411.93                             69.14           49.57        42.79         106.99          268.50              143.44
    22              2029            406.58                             69.14           49.57        37.45         106.99          263.15              143.44
    23              2030            401.23                             69.14           49.57        32.10         106.99          257.80              143.44
    24              2031            395.88                             69.14           49.57        26.75         106.99          252.45              143.44
    25              2032            390.53                             69.14           49.57        21.40         106.99          247.10              143.44
    26              2033            385.18                             69.14           49.57        16.05         106.99          241.75              143.44
    27              2034            379.83                             69.14           49.57        10.70         106.99          236.40              143.44
    28              2035            374.49                             69.14           49.57         5.35         106.99          231.05              143.44
    29              2036            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)        106.99          225.70              143.44
    30              2037            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    31              2038            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    32              2039            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    33              2040            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    34              2041            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    35              2042            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    36              2043            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    37              2044            369.14                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              250.42
    38              2045            319.20                             69.14           49.57        (0.00)           -            118.71              200.48
    39              2046               -                                 -               -          (0.00)           -             (0.00)               0.00
    40              2047               -                                 -               -          (0.00)           -             (0.00)               0.00
    41              2048               -                                 -               -          (0.00)           -             (0.00)               0.00
                                                       1293.45 Rate Of Return                                                                       25.96%
Note : Year 2012 means Financial Year 2011-12 and so on.


Financial Analysis - Entity
The financial analysis at the entity level was carried out at the appraisal and completion stage,
using the same principles. Table A4.5 lays out the actual financial details at the entity level.
POWERGRID has been a profit-making entity since its inception and the legacy carried over
during the PSDP III implementation period as well. Net profit increased from US$183 million in
2005 to US$627 million in 2011, an increase of more than 3.4 times. The main financial risk to
POWERGRID is the risk of nonpayment by off-taking utilities. The risk of recovering past debts
has been mitigated through the signing of tripartite agreements between the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI), state governments and GoI. Under this securitization scheme, past debts were securitized
against the tax free bonds valid up to 2016. In addition, POWERGRID has adopted the Letter of
Credit mechanism to ensure payment of current monthly bills by the off-taking utilities. In case of
default, the utility is penalized by reducing 5 percent of power offtake when payment is delayed
between 60-75 days of billing date, 10 percent when delay is between 75-90 days, and 15 percent if
beyond 90 days. If the utilities are unable to pay the bill even beyond this timeframe,
                                                                           50
POWERGRID can intimate MoP that further advises MoF to direct RBI to release the complete
payment directly to POWERGRID from the central appropriation of the concerned state.
POWERGRID‟s receivables as of March 2011 stand at 0.15 months of average billing and Letters
of Credit are available for a gross amount of INR 5,594 crore (or US$1,300 million)14, which were
over 100 percent of the average monthly payable transmission charge.

Even though the regulated ROE has increased from 14 to 15.5 percent, the ROE at entity level was
at 13 percent in 2011. This is mainly due to the huge CAPEX that stood at US$3,100 million in
2011 in response to an increasing demand and need for supporting the transmission network to
transfer power between power surplus and power deficit regions. The current ratio is healthy as it
is below one during the project period.

                                                 Table A4.5: Financial summary

                                              POWER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
                                                Financial Summary (Figures in million USD)
 Description                                                               <-------Actual----------->
                                Year             2005        2006        2007           2008             2009      2010      2011
 PROFIT AND LOSSES
 Operating Revenues                               658           827           953         1,182          1,428     1,745     2,116
 Operating Expenses                               259           334           343           468            527       775       824
 Profit before Tax                                211           272           345           402            518       611       889
 Net profit                                       183           235           286           337            393       475       627
 CASH FLOW
 Operating Cash flow post tax                     660           857         1,011           696          1,544     1,539     1,323
 Capital Expenditure                              707         1,070         1,566         1,243          2,129     2,247     3,100
 Pre-financing cash flow                          (47)         (213)         (556)         (547)          (585)     (707)   (1,777)
 Financing                                        431           693         1,303         1,415          1,556     1,709     2,802
 Cash Available for Debt Service                  384           480           747           868            971     1,002     1,025
 debt service                                     371           434           519           586            702       667       754
 dividend paid                                     56            49            88           126            137       137       177
 Increase in cash balances                        (43)           (3)          141           156            131       197        94
 Cash C/F                                         140           137           278           434            565       762       856
 BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
 Net Block                                       3,790        4,306         5,074         6,362          7,239     7,456     8,657
 WIP                                             1,169        1,489         2,195         2,037          3,090     4,749     6,192
 Total Fixed Assets                              4,958        5,795         7,269         8,398         10,329    12,205    14,849
 Investments                                       438          498           457           404            370       338       317
 Total Current asset                               607          634           816         1,250          1,933     2,239     2,446
 Total Assets                                    6,003        6,926         8,543        10,053         12,633    14,782    17,612
 Total Equity                                    2,093        2,321         2,547         3,197          3,452     3,753     5,008
 Borrowings                                      3,113        3,494         4,494         5,178          6,620     8,004     9,508
 Current Liabilities                               741        1,038         1,404         1,563          2,436     2,862     2,829
 Total Debt                                      3,854        4,533         5,898         6,741          9,055    10,866    12,337
 Total Equity and Liability                      6,003        6,926         8,543        10,053         12,633    14,782    17,612

 FINANCIAL RATIOS
 Operating Ratio                                   39%          40%           36%          40%            37%       44%       39%
 Net income as % of Revenue                        28%          28%           30%          29%            28%       27%       30%
 Return on Equity                                   9%          10%           11%          11%            11%       13%       13%
 Self Financing Ratio (3 year average)             35%          34%           35%          43%            37%       26%       30%
 Debt Service Coverage                             1.08         1.13          1.18         1.22           1.28      1.45      1.71
 Current ratio                                     0.82         0.61          0.58         0.80           0.79      0.78      0.86
 Debt:Equity Ratio                                63:37        63:37         67:33        64:36          68:32     71:29     68:32
 Exchange rate (USD/INR)                 43




14
     At the exchange rate of US$1 = INR 43 (same as used for the economic and financial analysis)
                                                           51
As can be observed from Tables A4.5 and A4.6, POWERGRID comfortably met the financial
covenants. The debt-equity ratio was always lower than 80:20. The self financing ratio was also
greater than 20 percent for all years from 2006 till 2011. Accounts receivable were also much
lower than four months, stipulated in the Loan Agreement.

                       Table A4.6: POWERGRID’s adherence to financial covenants

Name of the Covenant          Units    Covenant             2005-06   2006-07   2007-08   2008-09   2009-10   2010-11
Debt Equity Ratio             Ratio    Less than 80:20       63:37     67:33     65:35     68:32     71:29     68:32
Self Financing Ratio         Percent   Greater than 20%     36.75%     35.4%    43.11%    35.34%    25.27%    29.93%
Accounts Receivable          Months    Less than 4 months     0.36      0.21      0.19      0.15      0.13      0.15




                                                            52
    Annex 5: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

a. Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Ian Alexander               Consultant                      FEUSE – HIS
Sushil Kumar Bahl           Senior Procurement Specialist     SARPS
Priya Chopra                Program Assistant                 SASDO
                            Senior Social Development
Mohammed Hasan                                                SASDS
                            Specialist
Fowzia Hassan               Operations Analyst                MNSEG
                            Senior Financial Management
Manoj Jain                                                    SARFM
                            Specialist
 Sunil Kumar Khosla         Senior Energy Specialist          ECSS2
 Judith K. Plummer          Senior Financial Analyst          SASDE
Mantena Satyanarayana Raju Consultant                         SASDE
 Sameer Shukla              Senior Energy Specialist          ECSS2
 Sanjay Srivastava          Regional Safeguards Adviser       SARDE
Vladislav Vucetic           Lead Energy Specialist            MNSEG
Pedro E. Sanchez            Senior Energy Specialist          ECSSD
Mikul Bhatia                Senior Energy Specialist          SASDE
Rashid Aziz                 Senior Energy Specialist          SASDE
Supervision/ICR
Sushil Kumar Bahl           Senior Procurement Specialist     SARPS
Mikul Bhatia                Senior Energy Specialist          SEGEN
Priya Chopra                Program Assistant                 SASDO
Minerva S. Espinosa-Apurada Program Assistant                 SASDO
SurbhiGoyal                 Energy Specialist                 SASDE
Yash Gupta                  Procurement Specialist            SARPS
                            Senior Social Development
Mohammed Hasan                                                SASDS
                            Specialist
                            Senior Financial Management
Manoj Jain                                                    SARFM
                            Specialist
Gaurav D. Joshi             Environmental Specialist          SASDI
Neelima Kapur               Temporary                         SASDA
 Pedro E. Sanchez           Senior Energy Specialist          ECSSD
Gevorg Sargsyan             Program Coordinator               SEGEN
Sanjay Srivastava           Regional Safeguards Adviser       SARDE
Mantena Satyanarayana Raju Consultant                         SASDE
Julia M. Fraser             Senior Financial Analyst          EASTS
Raghuveer Y. Sharma         Chief Investment Officer          CN1S5
Kwawu Mensan Gaba           Lead Energy Specialist            SASDE
                            Senior Power Engineer
G. Ayse Cansiz                                                AFTEG
                            (Consultant)
                                             53
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                    Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Kavita Saraswat                Senior Power Engineer                SASDE
Vinod Ghosh                    Program Assistant                    SASDE
Savinay Grover                 Financial Management Specialist      SARFM
Christopher L. Rytel           Power Engineer (Consultant)          SASDE

b. Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (World Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                         9.25                      41.86
FY05                                                        73.66                     243.39
FY06                                                        27.25                      82.40
Total:                                                     110.16                     367.65

Supervision/ICR
FY06                                                         5.12                      16.57
FY07                                                        40.75                     127.01
FY08                                                        29.69                     114.36
FY09                                                        18.06                      63.89
FY10                                                        23.56                      80.26
FY11                                                        12.18                      29.22
FY12(till January 27, 2012)                                 17.20                      45.70
Total:                                                     146.56                     477.01




                                               54
                 Annex 6: Beneficiary Survey Results


Not Applicable




                                 55
               Annex 7: Terms of Reference for Impact Assessment Study

Objective of the Study
The objective of the study is to independently assess the impact of income generation measures in
restoring/improving the living standards of the affected person in terms of increase in incomes,
acquiring assets, and so on. The study shall cover all those who have received the benefits of
rehabilitation assistance for traditional and nontraditional income generation activities. The study
should also include a small control group for comparing the living standards of the people affected
by the project with those of the unaffected population.

Scope of the Study
The following tasks will be undertaken during the assessment and evaluation of RAP:
    Prepare a detailed methodology including survey instruments for the evaluation study;
    Review the overall implementation of the income generation program and conclude
        whether the desired objectives of income restoration have been realized;
    Assess the process followed for the implementation of the income generation program;
    Find out the impact of income generation in respect of improving the living standards and
        creating productive assets;
    Assess the changes in the living standards of affected persons in terms of income, land
        ownership, material assets, debt, housing, demographic characteristics, and so on, and
        compare those with the controlled population;
    Assess whether the compensation amounts were sufficient to replace lost assets and
        identify how the receipts have been used to conclude whether such compensation has been
        used for productive purposes or not;
    Identify lessons learned and any remedial measures required for the realization of the
        objective; and
    Prepare an impact assessment report describing the results of the above mentioned aspects.

Methodology
The study shall use a variety of means to collect the information, including household surveys,
group discussions, case studies and interviews with the officials. As appropriate, secondary data
will be collected from POWERGRID's project files and reports. For comparison purposes, if some
baseline data are not available such data will be collected on recall basis. The sample size will
consist of about 50 percent of the households who have received benefits. The sample should be
selected to cover all castes and different type of income generation programs. In addition, a sample
size (about 15-25 percent of the main sample) will be taken up from the controlled population for
comparing the living standards.

Output
The study will be completed in about two months. The inception report outlining the methodology,
timeline for various tasks and the baseline data for key indicator to be used in the report (to be
collected from the baseline studies) will be available within two weeks. The draft report will be
available at the end of one-and-a-half months. The final report will be produced in about two
months.
     Inception report
     Draft report
     Final report




                                                56
                 Annex 8: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not Applicable




                                        57
                                   Annex 9: Summary of Borrower's ICR

Introduction
POWERGRID, the central transmission utility of the country and a Navratna Public Sector
Enterprise (PSE) operating under MoP, plays a strategic role in the Indian power sector, directly
contributing to the economic development of the country, by establishing large and complex
transmission projects, and operating and monitoring regional grids under stringent conditions.

As on March 31, 2011, POWERGRID has established a transmission network of around 82,355
ckm of transmission lines along with 135 EHV alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC)
substations, with a transformation capacity of 93,050 MVA, spread over the length and breadth of
the country. The company has been consistently maintaining the availability of its transmission
network over 99 percent and wheels about 50 percent of the total power generated in the country
on its network. POWERGRID is a listed company with a public holding of 30.58 percent, the
balance being held by GoI.

POWERGRID has been a profit-making company since its inception. In FY2011, the company
achieved a turnover of INR 9,100 crore (or US$2,116 million), net profit of INR 2,697 crore
(US$627 million) and had total fixed assets worth INR 50,352 crore (or US$11,710 million)15.

The company has established a strong and reliable National Grid in a phased manner to facilitate
optimum utilization of generating resources, conservation of ecosensitive ROW and with
flexibility to accommodate the uncertainty of generation plans. Presently, an interregional power
transfer capacity of about 23,800 MW is established that is planned to be enhanced to over 28,000
MW by 2011-12. Further, modernization of RLDCs, NLDC and establishment of dedicated
communication facilities along with the implementation of availability based tariff in all regions
have helped in improving grid stability, system availability and economy of operation. There has
been no major grid disturbance in any part of India for more than eight years.

Over about two decades of excellent business operations, POWERGRID has developed strong in-
house expertise in all specialised areas of the power transmission business and has carved out a
niche for itself amongst the largest transmission utilities in the world.

Association with the World Bank
POWERGRID, since its inception, has undertaken many critical transmission projects, in
association with the World Bank, which have become the backbone of the Indian power sector.
POWERGRID is a key participant in several sector reform initiatives and with the World Bank‟s
support, POWERGRID could successfully address critical issues such as the establishment of the
National Grid, open access in transmission, modernization of load dispatch facilities and
establishment of NLDC, and so on, besides establishing/strengthening transmission systems.

During the company‟s formative years, the World Bank was the first multilateral lending agency to
support it with funding of transmission projects. Since then, POWERGRID has availed the
following loans from the World Bank:
1. Northern Region Transmission Project (NRTP- US$475 million, closed in September 2000);
2. Power System Development Project-I (PSDP I - US$350 million, closed in December 2000);
3. Power System Development Project-II (PSDP II - US$450 million, closed in June 2006);
4. Power System Development Project-III (PSDP III - US$400 million, closed in July 2011);
5. Power System Development Project-IV (PSDP IV - US$600 million, ongoing loan) including

15
     At the exchange rate of US$ 1 = INR 43.0 (same as used for the economic and financial analysis).
                                                            58
    an additional financing for PSDP IV (US$400 million, ongoing loan); and
6. Power System Development Project-V (PSDP V - US$1,000 million, ongoing loan).

Association with the World Bank has led to marked improvement in the business processes of
POWERGRID, especially in the field of environment sustainability, institutional development,
procurement and financial management, and so on.

The PSDP III loan closed in July 2011 and the following sections cover various details of the loan.

PSDP III Loan: An Introduction
The PSDP III loan (Loan no. 4813-IN) was designed as a specific investment loan (SIL) with the
flexibility to finance POWERGRID‟s investments priorities during the loan period. The schemes
under the loan were categorised as „core‟ and „candidate‟ schemes. Accordingly, three
transmission projects -- (i) 765 kV Seoni-Bina transmission system; (ii) 400 kV Seoni-Wardha-
Akola-Aurangabad transmission system; and (iii) 2,500 MW HVDC Balia-Bhiwadi transmission
system -- were identified under core projects and the balance two transmission projects -- (i)
NWTC scheme; and (ii) WRSS-II -- were identified under candidate projects. Apart from these,
financing of balance works of the projects under the PSDP II loan (closed in June 30, 2006) was
also covered under the PSDP III loan. The total financing sought from the World Bank was
US$1,400 million and the PSDP III loan of US$400 million was the first tranche from the World
Bank.

In addition, PSDP III, the third direct loan to POWERGRID from the World Bank, was signed on
May 2, 2006 and became effective on December 15, 2006. The loan closed on July 31, 2011 and
the repayment period of the loan is up to March 15, 2026.

Project Development Objectives
The objective of the loan was to strengthen the transmission system in order to increase reliable
power exchanges between the regions and states and was agreed as one of the outcome indicators.
Further, growth in transmission capacity (in ckm), growth in transformation capacity (in MVA)
and completion of NLDC were also agreed to be monitored to achieve these objectives. The
progress of the elements covered under various schemes was continuously monitored through
POWERGRID‟s own internal mechanism and also through periodic reviews by the World Bank
Missions. The PDOs together with their approach/fulfillment are outlined in Table A9.1:

                                Table A9.1: PDOs and their fulfillment
Outcome Indicator                           FY 06       FY07        FY08       FY 09      FY 10      FY 11
                                                                                                @
Transmission              Actual Values     55121       59461       66809      71440     75291        82355
capacity (ckm)            Target Values     55000       58000       65000      71000      80000      80000*
Transformation            Actual Values     54377      59417@       73122      79522      83402       93050
capacity (MVA)            Target Values     54000       60000       68000      75000      82000       85000
Power Exchange            Actual Values    34816@      37752@       42932      46027      52000       56747
across regions (MUs) Target Values          35000       38000       42000      46000      50000       52000
     @ There was marginal lag from the targets in the respective years; however, all project development
     objectives have been achieved successfully by March 2011.
     * Revised during the MTR Mission in April 2010 in view of the FRA notification in August 2009 under
     which no-objection to be taken from every Gram Sabha (at the village level) for all proposals involving
     diversion of forest land under the Forest (Conservation) Act which resulted in delay in obtaining forest
     clearance.




                                                     59
Growth in power exchange between regions
   The total power exchange between regions was 56,747 MU at the end of 2010-11 which is
   significantly higher than 34,816 MU at the end of 2005-06 (an increase of 63 percent).

   Under this loan, two interregional lines, the
   Agra-Gwalior 765 kV S/C line and Zerda-                                  Actual Values       Target Values
                                                     60000
   Kankroli 400 kV D/C line, were implemented
   under the NWTC Strengthening Scheme. With         40000
   the implementation of these lines, the
                                                     20000
   interregional power transfer capacity of the
   National Grid has been enhanced by about              0
   2,100 MW. Further, as per estimates, these                     FY 06     FY07     FY08     FY 09     FY 10   FY 11
   links have facilitated exchange of about 4,700
   MU of energy during FY2011.

Growth in transmission capacity                                               Actual Values     Target Values
   The total transmission capacity of 82,355 ckm     100000

   at the end of 2010-11 is significantly higher      80000
   than 55,121 ckm at the end of 2005-06 (an          60000
   increase of 49 percent).                           40000

   Transmission lines covered under this loan 20000
   contributed about 1,276 ckm of 400 kV lines,       0
                                                          FY 06              FY07     FY08      FY 09      FY 10   FY 11
   923 ckm of 765 kV lines and 1,580 ckm
   HVDC bipole line towards transmission capacity addition.

Growth in transformation capacity
   The transformation capacity of 93,050 MVA at                               Actual Values      Target Values
   the end of 2010-11 is significantly higher than    100000

   54,377 MVA at the end of 2005-06 (an increase       80000
   of 71 percent).                                     60000
                                                       40000
   Under this loan, 2x315 MVA transformation           20000
   capacity at the new 400/220 kV Wardha                      0
   substation has been added apart from various                     FY 06     FY07     FY08      FY 09     FY 10    FY 11
   substation extensions.

Completion of NLDC
   The project was completed in March 2009 (that is, FY2009 as per PDO) and was declared
   under commercial operation in April 2009. This is now managed and operated by POSOCO, a
   fully owned subsidiary of POWERGRID.

Performance Indicator Pertaining to Environment
    In addition to above PDOs, “cumulative forest area impacted/cumulative line length in ckm?
    was selected as a performance indicator with reference to environment. Subsequently, during
    the ICR Mission in October 2011, it was decided to use “cumulative transmission capacity
    (MW) per meter width of right of way within the forest area? as a performance indicator on
    environment (for consistency with the performance indicator being followed under the ongoing
    PSDP IV and PSDPV loans). Accordingly, the indicator has been calculated for the PSDP III
    loan considering 2004-05 as the base year (as mentioned in PAD).


                                              60
                   Table A9.2: Performance indicator on environment
                    Year                  KPI (MW / m) in forest area
                   2004-05                            17.39
                   2005-06                            17.64
                   2006-07                            19.62
                   2007-08                            19.92
                   2008-09                           19.78*
                   2009-10                            20.05
                   2010-11                            20.16
    * There is a dip during 2008-09 as more low capacity lines (220 kV and 400 kV) were implemented,
    which has dragged the bar down.

It may be highlighted that PDOs agreed in the PAD of the loan have been achieved
successfully, in fact, exceeded on all fronts. All the elements covered under the loan have been
completed progressively well before the loan closing date of July 31, 2011. Further,
POWERGRID has achieved disbursement of 100 percent under the loan. All the financial
covenants as agreed under the loan have been met comfortably, and social and environment
aspects have also been addressed adequately while implementing the projects under the loan.

Project Design
The project design was well aligned with the underlying objectives and focused on addressing
capacity building for increased exchange of power across the regions. To achieve this, various
interregional (NWTC Strengthening Scheme), grid strengthening (WRSS-II), and high
capacity HVDC bipole links (Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC transmission line) were planned based on
proven design and tested technologies such as 500 kV HVDC and 765 kV/400 kV EHV
transmission lines.

To achieve the required objectives under the loan on time, various pre-implementation
activities such as site selection, survey and soil investigation, initiation for forest clearances,
procurement process, and funding tie-up were initiated simultaneously so that sufficient time
would be available for executing the project. Procurement being a vital part of project design,
the entire scope of various projects was broken down to suitable contract packages keeping in
mind the sources, competitiveness and, ultimately, dovetailing all contract packages to
facilitate their streamlined integration to achieve the PDO.

Procurement Summary
Under PSDP III, of 42 packages, 10 packages were under prior review whereas 32 packages
were under post review. Further, bidding documents for all type of packages were standardized
resulting in a smoother procurement process and leading to streamlined implementation of the
project. In fact, POWERGRID has harmonized its bidding documents across packages,
irrespective of the source of funding.

Project Implementation
All the schemes under the loan were designed, engineered and implemented by POWERGRID.
The scope covered under the loan has already been completed and the detailed status as on
December 16, 2011 is provided in Table A9.3. Details of individual schemes are provided later
in this Annex.




                                              61
                             Table A9.3: Detailed status of project implementation
                                                                                                All Figures in US$ Million
     Sl.    Project Name             Total            Envisaged          Committe         Disbur           Remarks
     N                              Project             Bank              d Value         semen
     o.                               Cost            Funding as                             t
                                  as per PAD           per PAD
     1     Seoni-Wardha-              169                118                 121          116.09      Commissioned
           Akola-                                                                                     progressively                 by
           Aurangabad                                                                                 November 2009
           Transmission
           System
     2     ±500 kV, 2,500             173                  150               126          126.74      Only Balia-Bhiwadi 500
           MW Balia &            (only HVDC                                                           kV HVDC bipole line
           Bhiwadi HVDC          line portion)                                                        covered under PSDP III
           Bipole System@                                                                             loan      which       was
                                                                                                      completed in March 2010.
                                                                                                      Pole-I of HVDC line
                                                                                                      along     with    terminal
                                                                                                      stations commissioned in
                                                                                                      August 2010 and under
                                                                                                      commercial       operation
                                                                                                      since September 1, 2010
     3     765 kV Seoni-                82                 56                 44           43.99      Commissioned in March
           Bina                                                                                       2010 and under
           Transmission                                                                               commercial operation
           Line                                                                                       since April 1, 2010
     4     North-West                  128                 89                 65           60.98      Commissioned
           Transmission                                                                               progressively by April
           Corridor                                                                                   2009
           Strengthening
           Scheme@
     5     Western Region               65                 55                22*           21.94      Only 765 kV S/C Bina-
           System                                                                                     Gwalior line covered
           Strengthening                                                                              under PSDP III loan,
           Scheme-II@                                                                                 which        has     been
                                                                                                      commissioned           in
                                                                                                      February 2010 and is
                                                                                                      under          commercial
                                                                                                      operation since March 1,
                                                                                                      2010
     6  Completion of            75              75             32        30.26                       All projects completed
        Spillover Projects
        from PSDP II
        including
        Emergency
        Restoration
        System16
              Total             692             543           410**        400
@
   Partly funded under the PSDP III loan. Balance elements are being funded under PSDP IV and additional
financing for PSDP IV loans.
* Only 765 kV S/C Bina-Gwalior tower package was covered under the loan. The corresponding conductor
and insulator of about US$23 million are covered under PSDP IV loan.
** To be restricted to US$400 million

16
  This included: (i) Eastern Region System Coordination and Control Project; (ii) Western Region System Coordination and Control
Project; (iii) System Strengthening-III in Southern Region Grid; (iv) High Capacity East-North Interconnector-II; (v) POWERGRID‟S
Diversification into Telecom Business; and (vi) NLDC.
                                                                 62
Loan Utilization
The loan was fully disbursed. The utilization of the earlier two direct loans from the World Bank to
POWERGRID was about 65 percent and 98 percent for PSDP I and PSDP II, respectively. Thus,
disbursement under PSDP III is the highest of all loans ever by POWERGRID. This was achieved
through rigorous monitoring of the project implementation, expeditious resolution of various
issues, timely submission of disbursement claims, and continuous guidance and support from the
World Bank through Missions/meetings.

Benefits of Projects under PSDP III
 The elements funded under the PSDP III loan have facilitated the strengthening of the National
   Grid in terms of interregional as well as intraregional capacity and also the creation of a
   parallel transmission corridor in the Western/Northern Regions;
 Interregional lines, namely Agra-Gwalior 765 kV S/C line and Zerda-Kankroli 400 kV D/C
   line under the NWTC Strengthening Scheme have enhanced the interregional power transfer
   capacity by about 2,100 MW;
 Successful completion of these interregional links have contributed to enhancing the total
   interregional power transfer capacity of the country to 23,800 MW, which is a significant
   milestone towards POWERGRID‟s mission of the establishment of the National Grid. Further,
   the implementation of grid strengthening schemes, that is, Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC bipole line,
   Seoni-Bina 765 kV S/C line, Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangabad Transmission system and
   Bina-Gwalior 765 kV S/C line have resulted in improving grid security, quality and reliability
   of the Indian power system;
 Under the PSDP III loan, significant transmission capacity, that is, . 923 ckm at 765 kV, 1,276
   ckm at 400 kV and 1,580 ckm at ±500 kV HVDC along with the new 400/220 kV Wardha
   substation with a 630 MVA transformation capacity was added apart from numerous
   substation extensions; and
 The establishment of a modern and computerized NLDC along with the already implemented
   Unified Load Dispatch and Communication Scheme in various regions (supported by the
   World Bank) is assisting in the smooth transfer of power between regions and synchronous
   operation of the National Grid. It has also helped in scheduling and dispatching of power,
   increasing the security and reliability of the grid, coordination among power exchanges, and so
   on, and aided in prevention of any major/minor grid disturbance.

Operational Experience
All major investments financed by the loan have resulted in further strengthening of the National
Grid and enhanced its reliability, safety and security. Transmission assets of the company are being
successfully operated and maintained with an availability of more than 99 percent. In the future
too, all investments are expected to operate smoothly as POWERGRID has past experience and
robust arrangements for O&M of similar facilities.

Lessons/ Best Practices under the Loan
Time slice approach
     The time slice lending approach, adopted in the PSDP III loan, provided flexibility to
     POWERGRID in identifying a basket of priority projects and financing depending upon their
     readiness for implementation. This also helped POWERGRID in minimizing the financing
     costs such as commitment charges under the loan.

Procurement
     Under this loan, procurement of such transmission system schemes was carried out which
     were either uniquely positioned or pertained to emerging transmission technologies in India.
     For example, Balia-Bhiwadi, a long distance (approximately 800 km), bipole HVDC
                                                63
     transmission system for the transfer of 2,500 MW power at ±500 kV voltage level, was a
     unique project of its kind considering the complexity of procurement of HVDC terminal
     package. Similarly, certain packages in other transmission schemes involved procurement of
     plant, equipment and goods for 765 kV voltage level, an emerging voltage level in
     transmission systems in India at that time.

     The World Bank played a vital role in the preparation of various sections of POWERGRID‟s
     bidding documents, under the „prior‟ review category, suitable to the requirements of these
     schemes based on its Standard Bidding Documents. The World Bank‟s critical observations
     on the qualification requirements, special conditions of contract, technical specifications, and
     so on, from time to time helped POWERGRID not only to improve the bidding documents
     under World Bank‟s funding but also to harmonize such provisions in bidding documents
     across all funding.

     Efficiency and effectiveness in procurement starts with consistent bidding documents. Under
     this loan, as agreed with the World Bank, the initial Standard Bidding Documents for various
     package categories were prepared and all subsequent bidding documents under those
     package categories were prepared based on these Standard Bidding Documents incorporating
     package specific changes. The same approach has not only been adopted in subsequent loans
     of the World Bank but also in case of procurement of various packages under domestic
     funding in POWERGRID. At present, POWERGRID maintains Model Bidding Documents
     for various package categories under domestic funding which facilitates the preparation of
     consistent bidding documents in the shortest possible timeframe.

     Occasionally, POWERGRID faced difficulties in addressing certain comments/ deviations/
     reservations/ exceptions, and so on, from bidders while evaluating their bids to ascertain
     substantial responsiveness of the bids as there were contradictions in such comments/
     deviations/ reservations/ exceptions found in different parts of the bids. Accordingly, with
     the concurrence of the World Bank, POWERGRID incorporated a provision in the bidding
     documents on „Order of Precedence‟ of comments/ deviations/ reservations/ exceptions
     found in different parts of the bid (that is, letterhead, bid form, price schedules, deviation
     statement, technical data sheets, other parts of bids, and so on) in addressing conflict of such
     comments/ deviations/ reservations/ exceptions, if any. Such a provision has been
     incorporated in the bidding documents under subsequent loans of the World Bank as well as
     in bidding documents across all funding.

     The World Bank also facilitated POWERGRID in streamlining certain provisions in its
     bidding documents pertaining to deemed export benefits, changes in laws, responsiveness to
     critical provisions, time for completion, and so on. This has benefitted POWERGRID in
     streamlining such provisions in its bidding documents across all funding. Similarly, the
     World Bank facilitated POWERGRID in improvising its Evaluation Reports, both in content
     and form, which has also been implemented by POWERGRID across all funding.

Environmental and Social Aspects
      POWERGRID, in association with the World Bank, used a proactive approach to develop a
      comprehensive ESPP in April 1998 for its project with the active involvement of a leading
      nongovernmental organization (NGO) Development Alternatives after a wide consultation
      involving stakeholders, general public, representatives from MoP, MoEF, CEA, state
      electricity boards, allied organizations, academia, NGOs, multilateral funding agencies and
      PAPs from its projects through a process of national consultation. The provisions of ESPP
      were upgraded in 2005 and 2009 to meet the requirement of new enactments, changed rules
      and guidelines including that of multilateral funding agency such as the World Bank, Asian
                                                64
Development Bank (ADB), Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and
international best practices to preempt all possible environment and social issues. During
the revisions of ESPP, the consultative process was further widened to engage all
stakeholders, including PAPs and local communities. Further, during the process of PSDPV
loan, POWERGRID ESPPs was selected as the first candidate for UCS in India by the
World Bank.

The ESPP is being implemented in all POWERGRID’s projects irrespective of type of
funding.
 Several good environmental practices have been institutionalized including technical
    innovations to minimize environmental impact. The project exhibited good
    rehabilitation and resettlement practices and community development programs. Some
    of the these are:
    i) Involvement of a ESMD representative during the substation site (land) selection
         process along with engineering, Regional Headquarters (RHQ) and site
         representative for optimization of land size as well as ensuring land having the
         least social impact is selected as far as possible;
   ii)   An advisory committee comprising eminent experts on environment and
         rehabilitation is in place to review ESPP and oversee its implementation at site
         level;
   iii) Periodic field visits of safeguards experts from the World Bank, ADB and
         POWERGRID;
   iv) Income generation scheme implementation with the involvement of local
         institution such as the Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Rural Industrialization for
         better understanding/representation;




   v)   Awareness on health and education created and an ambulance has also been
        provided to Dhanu District Hospital (near Wardha substation), Maharashtra,
        through the Dhanu Environmental Protection Agency;
  vi) PAPs are provided with unskilled jobs with the contractor to boost income level;
  vii) Awareness and training programs on the protection of workers; health/safety as
        well as safety regulations/safety manuals are included in the bidding documents
        and guide provisions for workers‟ health and safety. Various aspects such as work
        and safety regulations, workmen's compensation and insurance are adequately
        covered under the Erection Conditions of Contract, a part of bidding documents;
  viii) POWERGRID has a dedicated unit to oversee all health and safety aspects of its
        projects and has framed guidelines/checklists for workers‟ safety as its personnel
        are exposed to live EHV apparatus and transmission lines. These
        guidelines/checklists include work permits and safety precautions for work on the
        transmission lines both during construction and operation, and are monitored
        regularly by the site in-charge and Corporate Operation Services. In addition
        training is imparted to workers in fire-fighting and safety measures
 POWERGRID, in association with the World Bank, came up with the first
   Sustainability Report in the power sector, a first of its kind initiative among the World
                                         65
           Bank‟s borrowers in India, for measuring, disclosing and being accountable to internal
           and external stakeholders for organizational performance towards sustainable
           development.

Financial Management
       Institutional capacity: POWERGRID values World Bank‟s support to further enhance
          its institutional capacity, started during the loan period, such as the initiation of
          operational audit for projects under implementation, development of organization-wide
          (ERM framework and ERP to improve corporate governance and financial
          accountability;
       Use of the e-disbursement method has significantly reduced the time taken for
          processing of claims; and
       Operational Audit: This is one of the best practices started during the operation of the
          PSDP III loan. During appraisal of PSDP V (loan no. 7787-IN), it was agreed that
          initially a few under-construction subschemes involving World Bank financing shall be
          reviewed from a holistic perspective (technical, financial, contract management,
          operational, safety) that will help in evolving an appropriate methodology for the
          operational audit that could be applied to all the projects undertaken subsequently.
          Accordingly, during FY2011, the operational audits of such schemes were undertaken
          by a multidisciplinary team consisting of personnel from technical, contracts,
          operations and finance departments to achieve the objective of the review and verify
          overall satisfactory administration of contracts in accordance with the contract
          document.

Performance of the Bank
POWERGRID acknowledges the active support provided by the World Bank during the
administration of the loan, and other issues pertaining to procurement, safeguards, and so on.
Keeping in view the huge ongoing funding assistance to POWERGRID and also for future
engagements, POWERGRID may like to provide some suggestions for further improving various
processes:

(i)     Procurement aspects:
        Threshold limit: The present limit for „Prior‟ review packages under World Bank‟s
          loans is US$25 million. Considering POWERGRID‟s exposure to World Bank loans
          and procedures, it is suggested that the limit for „Prior‟ review packages be enhanced;
          and.
        Additional forum to interact with the World Bank: POWERGRID would like to
          commend the excellent communication that took place during the entire project period
          on a regular basis, between POWERGRID and the World Bank's procurement staff.
          Since procurement is a sensitive matter with its overlapping synergies with technical
          aspects, procurement is always a tough and contentious issue. Thus, even though there
          have been regular interactions, it is felt that there is a possibility of introducing an
          exchange forum, which could be in the form of regular face-to-face meetings between
          the World Bank and POWERGRID to discuss such complex matters in more detail.

(ii)   Contracts management in the World Bank’s Client Connection web site
       Under IBRD-III Loan, the contracts funded under the loan were listed in the World Bank
       Client connection web site and there was a unique SAP number for each contract which
       proved to be a very effective system for monitoring the contract-wise disbursement of
       loans. While doing any disbursement by the Disbursement Division situated in Chennai,
       they could refer to the above contract information and ensure that there were balance
       available in the contract for disbursement.
                                               66
            However, there have been some issues with respect to loan disbursement towards the later
            stage of the contracts. Some of the claims raised could not be processed in time due to
            insufficient balance reflected under various contracts, as the changes in the contract value
            on account of price variation and amendments were not getting updated in the Client
            Connection web site.

            POWERGRID is maintaining a database of updated contract price and disbursement
            details and also reporting the same on a periodic basis to the World Bank. It is proposed
            that this information should be updated in the Client Connection web site of the World
            Bank regularly and permission may be given to the borrower to view the information so
            that the data can be verified by both the World Bank and POWERGRID and hence,
            updated in a timely manner, in case of any discrepancy. The reconciliation can also be
            facilitated if history of all the applications, under which disbursements are made by the
            World Bank for each contract, is maintained. Such system is available for other
            multilateral banks as well and has helped both the parties in faster processing of claims and
            reconciliation of contracts.

Scheme-wise Project Implementation Details

1.      Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangaba Transmission System (Core Project)
        A. Project Cost
           a. Total anticipated completion cost: approximately INR 977 crore (or US$227
               million)17
           b. Bank financing: approximately INR 517 crore (or US$120 million)

        B. Commissioning: The scheme was originally scheduled to be completed by June 2008 but
           was later revised to be completed by November 2009. The reasons for delays were:
           a. POWERGRID had taken advance procurement action for the subject packages
               covered under the loan and draft bidding documents for the packages were furnished
               to the World Bank progressively from September 2005 to November2005. However,
               for some packages, the „No Objection‟ to the bidding documents took considerable
               time primarily due to improvements in bidding documents suggested by the World
               Bank in respect of policy and procedure related changes in World Bank‟s Standard
               Bidding Documents (SBD-2005).
           b. The Seoni-Wardha line was delayed due to the delay in commissioning of the
               associated downstream network by MSEB.
           c. Delay in commissioning of Akola and Aurangabad substations by MSEB, where
               POWERGRID lines, namely Wardha-Akola & Akola-Aurangabad, were to be
               terminated, resulted in delay in commissioning of these lines.

             The scheme was finally commissioned progressively by November 2009. Component-
             wise details, funded under PSDP III, are provided in Table A9.4.

 Table A9.4: Component-wise details funded under PSDP III, Seoni-Wardha-Akola-Aurangaba
                                    Transmission System


Transmission Lines:


17
     Exchange rate at US$1 = INR 43 (same as used for the economic and financial analysis).
                                                            67
S.    Scope under         Original       Revised      Actual      State     Forest      Approval
No     PSDP III          Commissioni   Commissioni   Commissio              Area         Status
                         ng Schedule   ng Schedule     ning                (hectar
                                                                              e)
1.   Seoni (PG)-          June 2008    March 2009      March     Madhya     21.57    Final approval
     Wardha (PG)                                       2009      Pradesh             on Nov 31,
     765 kV S/C line                                                                 2007
     (initially to be
     operated at 400                                             Mahara    36.49     Final approval
     kV) - 269 ckm                                                shtra              on Apr 16, 2008
2.   Wardha (PG)-         June 2008    March 2009      March     Mahara       -      No forest
     Akola                                             2009       shtra              involved
     (Maharashtra
     State Electricity
     Transmission
     Co. Ltd.
     (MSETCL))
     400 kV D/C
     line - 324 ckm
3.   Akola                June 2008     November     November    Mahara     3.22     Final approval
     (MSETCL)-                            2009         2009       shtra              in December,
     Aurangabad                                                                      2007
     (MSETCL) 400
     kV D/C line -
     482 ckm

Substations:
S.   Scope under PSDP III        Original      Revised      Actual           Resettlement &
No                             Commissioni   Commissioni   Commissi          Rehabilitation
                               ng Schedule   ng Schedule    oning
1.   2X315 MVA, 400/220         June 2008    March 2009     March     RAP involved 89.20 acres of
     kV Wardha (PG)                                          2009     Maharashtra Industrial
     substation (new) with a                                          Development Corporation land.
     provision to upgrade it                                          No land compensation was
     at 765 kV                                                        required to be paid to any
                                                                      Project Affected Families
                                                                      (PAFs) as land belonged to
                                                                      MIDC. RAP was completed in
                                                                      March 2008 with:
                                                                       Rehabilitation assistance of
                                                                      INR 3.62 lakh distributed to all
                                                                      PAFs
                                                                       Vocational training given to
                                                                      PAFs at Krishi Kendra, Wardha
                                                                      by Mahatma Gandhi Institute
                                                                      for Rural Industrialization,
                                                                      Wardha
2.   400 kV Seoni (PG)          June 2008     November     November
     substation (Extension)                     2009         2009
3.   400 kV Akola               June 2008     November     November
     (MSETCL) substation                        2009         2009
     (Extension)
4.   400 kV Aurangabad          June 2008     November     November           Not Approved
     (MSETCL) substation                        2009         2009
     (Extension)

                                                68
     C. Other Features of the Scheme
        a. Procurement: Under this scheme, 14 packages, awarded progressively from August
            2006 to February 2007, were funded under PSDP III.
         Package Type             Prior Review             Post Review              Total
         Tower                         01                       03                   04
         Conductor                     02                       02                   04
         Insulator                     00                       04                   04
         Substation                    00                       02                   02

         b. Environment Assessment Reports
                   Target date for submission (as per PIP)       Actual date of submission
         IEAR                   November 2004                          November 2004
         FEAR                   November 2006                          January 2008*
        * Forest clearance is an important input for FEAR which is a compliance report of IEAR listing all
        measures taken for the management of environment and social issues. During the one year period
        starting from October 2006 to October 2007, no forest clearances were granted by MoEF due to
        the intervention of the Supreme Court. Accordingly, there was delay in obtaining forest clearance
        and, as agreed with the World Bank, POWERGRID submitted FEAR pending final forest clearance.

         c. Rain Water Collection and Harvesting System at
            Wardha substation: This has now become part of the
            design in POWERGRID‟s substations depending on the
            water table in the area. In addition, based on advice of
            the World Bank, another such system was installed at
            Wardha substation colony to conserve water.

     D. Major Benefits of the Scheme
        a. A high capacity transmission corridor between Seoni (Maharashtra), a pooling center,
           and various load centers in the eastern and western parts of Maharashtra have been
           established for reliable dispersal of power beyond Seoni
        b. To meet the present as well as long-term power requirement of Wardha (Nagpur
           area), a major load center in the eastern part of Maharashtra, a new 400/220 kV
           substation at Wardha was also established.

2.   ±500 kV, 2,500 MW Balia-Bhiwadi HVDC Bipole System (Core Project)
     A. Project Cost
        a. Total anticipated completion cost: approximately INR 974 crore (or US$226 million)
        b. Bank financing: approximately INR 567 crore (or US$132 million)

     B. Commissioning: The scheme was originally scheduled to be completed by September
        2009; the date was later revised March 2012. The delay in manufacturing of converter
        transformers for the HVDC terminal at Bhiwadi by the contractor resulted in a delay in
        commissioning of Pole-I of the HVDC line. Only the Balia-Bhiwadi 500 kV HVDC
        bipole line was covered under the PSDP III loan and completed in March 2010. The
        HVDC Terminal Station for the 2,500 MW system at Balia and Bhiwadi along with
        associated works are covered under PSDP IV. Pole I of the HVDC line along with
        terminal stations was originally planned to be completed by September 2009 but were
        completed in August 2010 whereas Pole II of the HVDC line along with the terminal
        stations was originally planned to be completed by September 2009 but is now expected
        to be completed by March 2012. Component-wise details, funded under PSDP III, are
        provided in Table A9.5.


                                                   69
     Table A9.5: Component-wise details funded under PSDP III, ±500 kV, 2,500 MW Balia-
                               Bhiwadi HVDC Bipole System
     Transmission Lines:
S       Scope   Original      Revised       Actual       State        Forest               Approval Status
No      under   Commis       Commissi       Comm                       Area
        PSDP     sioning       oning        issioni                  (hectare)
         III    Schedule     Schedule         ng
1.    Balia-    Septemb        March        March        Uttar         11.03      Only road/canal crossings are
      Bhiwadi    er 2009       2010          2010       Pradesh                   involved for which approval was
      500 kV                                                                      obtained on June 22, 2009
      HVDC
      bipole                                            Haryana        15.54      Final approval obtained on
      line                                                                        March 19, 2009. Environmental
                                                                                  clearance obtained on September
                                                                                  6, 2007

                                                       Rajasthan        4.94      Final approval obtained on April
                                                                                  15, 2009

     C. Other Features of the Scheme
        a. Procurement: Under the project, 12 packages were covered under PSDP III, which
           were awarded progressively from March 2006 to January 2007.
                Package Type                  Prior Review                Post Review                  Total
          Tower                                    01                          02                       03
          Conductor                                00                          04                       04
          Insulator                                00                          04                       04
          OPGW                                     00                          01                       01

        b. Environment Assessment Reports
                     Target date for submission (as per PIP)             Actual date of submission
         IEAR                    November 2004                               November 2004
         FEAR                    November 2006                                February 2009*
        * Forest clearance is an important input for FEAR which is a compliance report of IEAR listing all measures
        taken for the management of environment and social issues. During the one year period starting from October
        2006 to October 2007, no forest clearances were granted by MoEF due to the intervention of the Supreme
        Court. Accordingly, there was delay in obtaining forest clearance and, as agreed with the World Bank,
        POWERGRID submitted FEAR pending final forest clearance.

        c. Resettlement and Rehabilitation: Since no substations were included under PSDP III,
           associated social issues did not arise.

     D. Major Benefits of the Scheme
        a. This HVDC link has facilitated the exchange of bulk power between the Northern and
           Eastern Regions of India as a number of generation projects are envisaged in the
           Eastern Region. Going forward, it will cater to the power demand in the Northern grid.
        b. This HVDC bipole would also help in supplying power to the Western Region via the
           Bhiwadi- Agra-Gwalior transmission corridor.

3.   765 kV Seoni-Bina Transmission Line (Core Project)
     A. Project Cost
        a. Total anticipated completion cost: approximately INR 386 crore (or US$90 million)
        b. Bank financing: approximately INR 196 crore (or US$46 million)


                                                       70
     B. Commissioning: The scheme was originally planned to be completed by September 2009
         but was later revised to be completed by March 2010. The reasons for delays were:
        a. The main reason for delay was the delay in forest clearance. The forest proposal for
            the project was submitted in May/September 2005 but the final clearance was received
            in May 2009. Thus, it took about four years to get the final forest clearance.
        b. It may be mentioned here that, in 2006, the Supreme Court had stayed the
            reconstitution of FAC. After representations from various agencies, its reconstitution
            was cleared by the Supreme Court in April 2007 with the condition that all
            recommendations of FAC would require approval of the Supreme Court which made
            the entire process of approval lengthy. This resulted in a delay of forest clearance,
            affecting the completion of the project.

            The scheme was finally commissioned in March 2009. Component-wise details,
            funded under PSDP III, are provided in Table A9.6.

 Table A9.6: Component-wise details funded under PSDP III, 765 kV Seoni-Bina Transmission
                                            Line

Transmission Lines:
S    Scope under PSDP          Original            Revised          Actual       State      Forest       Approval
No          III              Commissionin        Commissioni       Commis                    Area         Status
                              g Schedule         ng Schedule       sioning                  (hecta
                                                                                              re)
1.   Seoni- Bina 765kV       September           March 2010       March         Madhya      111.98    Final
     S/C (initially to be    2009                                 2010          Pradesh               approval
     operated at 400kV)                                                                               obtained on
     – 293 ckm                                                                                        May 28, 2009

     C. Other Features of the Scheme
        a. Procurement: Under the project, five packages were covered under PSDP III, which
           were awarded progressively from February 2006 to September 2006.
         Package Type                  Prior Review              Post Review                Total
         Tower                              01                        00                     01
         Conductor                          00                        02                     02
         Insulator                          00                        02                     02

        b. Environment Assessment Reports
                    Target date for submission (as per PIP)             Actual date of submission
        IEAR                    November 2004                               November 2004
        FEAR                       July 2006                                   May 2008*
        * Forest clearance is an important input for FEAR which is a compliance report of IEAR listing all measures
        taken for the management of environment and social issues. During the one year period starting from October
        2006 to October 2007, no forest clearances were granted by MoEF due to the intervention of the Supreme
        Court. Accordingly, there was delay in obtaining forest clearance and, as agreed with the World Bank,
        POWERGRID submitted FEAR pending final forest clearance.

        c. Resettlement and Rehabilitation: RAP was not required as this scheme involved only
           extension of substations that was not funded under PSDP III but through
           POWERGRID‟s own resources.

     D. Major Benefits of the Scheme
        a. This scheme transfers bulk power from the resource-rich Eastern and Western Regions
           to the distant part of the country through high capacity transmission links.

                                                       71
4.     North-West Transmission Corridor Strengthening Scheme (Candidate Project)
       A. Project Cost
          a. Total anticipated completion cost: approximately INR 431crore (or US$100 million)
          b. Bank financing: approximately INR 276 crore (or US$64 million)

       B. Commissioning: The scheme was originally planned to be completed in January 2009 but
           the date was later revised to April 2009. The reasons for minor delays were:
          a. There was a delay in receipt of forest clearance for the Zerda-Kankroli 400 kV D/C
              line. The forest proposals were submitted in 2006-07 for forest clearances in five
              divisions of Rajasthan and Gujarat. The process took longer due to a delay in
              processing at various stages within the State Forest Departments.
          b. In addition, there was a stay at three of the locations by the Nathdwara court,
              Rajasthan, which was vacated only in February, 2009. Thus, the line could be
              commissioned in April 2009.

          The scheme was finally commissioned progressively by April 2009. Component-wise
          details, funded under PSDP III, are provided in Table A9.7. Associated substations were
          funded PSDP IV.

     Table A9.7: Component-wise details funded under PSDP III, NWTC Strengthening Scheme

Transmission Lines:
S.       Scope           Original          Revised          Actual         State       Forest       Approval Status
No       under          Commissioni      Commissioni       Commis                       Area
        PSDP III        ng Schedule      ng Schedule       sioning                     (hecta
                                                                                         re)
1.     Agra-            January 2009      March 2009         March      Rajasthan,       9.2     Final      approval
       Gwalior 765                                           2009          MP          (Wild     obtained from the
       kV S/C                                                                           Life     Supreme Court and
       (initially to                                                                   Sanctu    National Board for
       be operated                                                                      ary)     Wildlife on July 14,
       at 400 KV)                                                                                2006
       – 128 ckm
2.     Zerda-           January 2009       April 2009        April        Gujarat       0.41     Final approval
       Kankroli                                              2009                                obtained on January
       400kV D/C                                                                                 28, 2009
       – 470 ckm                                                         Rajasthan     54.27     Final approval
                                                                                                 obtained on
                                                                                                 September 30, 2008

       C. Other Features of the Scheme
          a. Procurement: Under the project, eight packages were covered under PSDP III, which
             were awarded progressively from March 2006 to March 2007.
          Package Type                 Prior Review            Post Review                  Total
          Tower                             00                      03                       03
          Conductor                         00                      03                       03
          Insulator                         00                      02                       02

          b. Environment Assessment Reports:
                       Target date for submission (as per PIP)             Actual date of submission
          IEAR                      February 2006                                 March 2006
          FEAR                       August 2006                                March 2009 *
          * Forest clearance is an important input for FEAR which is a compliance report of IEAR listing all measures
          taken for the management of environment and social issues. During the one year period starting from October
                                                          72
        2006 to October 2007, no forest clearances were granted by MoEF due to the intervention of the Supreme
        Court. Accordingly, there was delay in obtaining forest clearance and, as agreed with the World Bank,
        POWERGRID submitted FEAR pending final forest clearance.

        c. Resettlement and Rehabilitation: RAP was not required as this scheme involved only
           extension of substations.

     D. Major Benefits of the Project
        a. These two interregional transmission lines have enhanced the interregional power
           transfer capacity by about 2,100 MW.
        b. Enhanced system stability as well as security of the Northern and Western grids
           through two separate interconnections.

5.   Western Region System Strengthening Scheme-II (Candidate Project)
     A. Project Cost
        a. Total anticipated completion cost: approximately INR 283crore (or US$66 million)
        b. Bank financing: approximately INR 99 crore (or US$23 million)

     B. Commissioning: The entire WRSS-II scheme was originally planned to be completed by
        July 2010 but the date was later revised to March 2012. The components funded under
        PSDP III were originally planned to be commissioned in July 2010 but were completed in
        February 2010, before the scheduled completion date. Component-wise details, funded
        under PSDP III, are provided in Table A9.8.

             Table A9.8: Component-wise details funded under PSDP III, WRSSS-II

Transmission Lines:
S.   Scope under PSDP         Original          Revised         Actual       State     Forest       Approval
No          III              Commissioni      Commissioni      Commis                   Area         Status
                             ng Schedule      ng Schedule      sioning                 (hecta
                                                                                         re)
1.   Bina (PG)- Gwalior        July 2010        February       February    Madhya       62.80    Final approval
     (PG) 765 kV 2nd S/C                          2010           2010      Pradesh               obtained on
     line (initially to be                                                                       September 25,
     operated at 400 kV)-                                                                        2008
     233 ckm

     C. Other Features of the Scheme
        a. Procurement: Under the project, only two tower packages (post review) were covered
           under the PSDP III loan, which were awarded in March 2007 and May 2007. The
           associated one conductor package and two insulator packages were covered under the
           PSDP IV loan.

        b. Environment Assessment Reports
                   Target date for submission (as per PIP)        Actual date of submission
         IEAR                     March 2007                             March 2007
         FEAR                   December 2008                          September 2009 *
        * Forest clearance is an important input for FEAR which is a compliance report of IEAR listing all
        measures taken for the management of environment and social issues. During the one year period
        starting from October 2006 to October 2007, no forest clearances were granted by MoEF due to
        the intervention of the Supreme Court. Accordingly, there was delay in obtaining forest clearance
        and, as agreed with the World Bank, POWERGRID submitted FEAR pending final forest clearance.


                                                     73
         c. Resettlement and Rehabilitation: RAP was not required as this scheme involved only
            extension of substations.

    D. Major Benefits of the Project
       a. The augmented intraregional transmission system in the Western Region to facilitate
          import of power from neighboring regions as well as further dispersal towards various
          load centers in all parts of the region to meet the long-term power transfer
          requirement. According to estimates, the Bina-Gwalior 765 kV S/C line has facilitated
          energy flow of about 3,900 MU during FY2011.

6. Spillover from PSDP II
The PSDP III loan had provisions for financing the expenditures incurred for the completion of
projects funded under PSDP II (Loan no. 4603-IN) as a spillover. An amount of US$32 million has
been utilized under the PSDP III loan for the completion of projects under PSDP II listed in Table
A9.9:

                                  Table A9.9: Spillover projects

  S No     Name of the Scheme under PSDP II                                      Completed In
  1.       Eastern Region System Coordination and Control Project                June 2005
  2.       Western Region System Coordination and Control Project                August 2005
  3.       System Strengthening-III in Southern Region Grid                      April 2007
  4.       High Capacity East-North Interconnector-II                            August 2007
  5.       POWERGRID‟S Diversification into Telecom Business                     Completed
  6.       National Load Dispatch Centre (NLDC)                                  March 2009

The implementation of spillover works in the Eastern and Western Region System Coordination
and Control Projects has resulted in an improvement of real-time grid management and economic
dispatch of power at the regional level. In addition, NLDC has been established as an apex body to
ensure integrated operation of the national power system for overall coordination at the national
level. This is now being managed and operated by POSOCO, a fully owned subsidiary of
POWERGRID. Further, the completion of balance elements has facilitated strengthening of the
transmission system. Diversification into the telecom business has created a new business
opportunity for the company by leveraging its country-wide transmission network.




                                                 74
   Annex 10: Comments from POWERGRID/Government of India on Draft ICR

                           Observations from
  Reference in Draft                                                         Bank Team’s
                           POWERGRID or            Observations
        ICR                                                                   Response
                                 GoI
Section 2, Heading 2 POWERGRID               Incomplete sentence          Incorporated
(Implementation), last
paragraph, last sentence
Reference to RAP           POWERGRID         Acronym stands for           Incorporated
                                             Rehabilitation      Action
                                             Plan         and       not
                                             Resettlement        Action
                                             Plan
Section 2, Heading 4 POWERGRID               „…as          per      the   Incorporated
(Safeguard            and                    requirement             of
Fiduciary Compliance),                       multilateral       funding
paragraph on „issues                         agencies‟ should be
related                 to                   deleted
implementation          of
FEAR…‟, Line 5
Section 3, Heading 5 POWERGRID               POWERGRID has been           Incorporated
(Overarching Themes,                         rated as „stable‟ outlook
other outcomes and                           by some of the credit
impacts (if any)), sub-                      rating agencies starting
heading                (b)                   much before FY 2008
(Institutional                               and thus, „Starting FY
change/strengthening),                       2008…‟        should    be
  nd
2 paragraph, reference                       deleted.
to ratings
Section 5, Heading 1 POWERGRID               POWERGRID has been           Incorporated
(Assessment of World                         rated as „stable‟ outlook
Bank and Borrower                            by some of the credit
Performance),                                rating agencies starting
Borrower, sub-heading                        much before FY 2008
(b)        (Implementing                     and thus, „Starting FY
Agency Performance)                          2008…‟        should    be
                                             deleted.
Annex 3 (Outputs by POWERGRID                Substations are financed     Incorporated
Components),       North                     under PSDP IV and not
West         Transmission                    under PSDP III. This
Corridor (NWTC)                              should be corrected
Annex 9 (Summary of POWERGRID                The indicator should be      Incorporated
Borrower‟s         ICR),                     read as „KPI (MW/m) in
Section               4.5                    forest area‟ and not „KPI
(Performance indicator                       (MW/m/no. of TL) in
pertaining              to                   forest area‟
environment)




                                              75
  Annex 11: Eligibility Criteria for Selection of Candidate Schemes to be Financed
                                   under PSDP III

Schemes will be eligible for financing under the PSDP III loan based on Project Implementation
Plans (PIP) submitted by POWERGRID to establish the satisfaction of the World Bank that an
investment scheme for which the World Bank approval is sought meets the eligibility criteria set
out below:

General Criteria
1. The investment scheme is technically and operationally justified and has been formulated after
taking into account other alternative investments.
2. The investment scheme is based on least cost options and is included in the overall least cost
Investment Program of POWERGRID, and is economically and financially justified.
3. The appropriate authorities of the Government of India have provided required
clearances/approvals for implementing the investment scheme, including environment and forest
clearances, as applicable, prior to initiation of construction of those relevant segments of such an
investment scheme for which environmental and forest clearances are required.
4. The investment scheme has adequate financing, procurement and implementation plans.
5. The investment scheme complies with POWERGRID‟s Environmental and Social Policy and
Procedures and, towards that end, POWERGRID has carried out an environment impact
assessment and prepared an environmental mitigation plan, and where applicable, a resettlement
and rehabilitation plan or other development plan for adversely affected people, all in a manner
satisfactory to the World Bank.
6. The investment scheme shall be for strengthening of the transmission system and interregional
power exchange for the National Grid.
7. Such additional criteria as may be specified by the World Bank for each additional investment
scheme, other than the Core schemes.




                                                76
       Annex 12: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                       77
                      Annex 13: List of Supporting Documents

1.    Financial and economic models at completion for the five core and candidate schemes
2.    POWERGRID‟s Completion Report for the Project, December 2011
3.    Project Appraisal Document
4.    Aide Memoires
5.    Implementation Status Reports
6.    The World Bank in India: A Partnership Beyond Expectations: The Story of
      POWERGRID, Vol 6, No 6, May 2008
7.    The World Bank in India: Highways of Power – Story of the 2nd POWERGRID System
      Development Project
8.    CAS for 2005-2008
9.    CAS for 2009-2012
10.   „Highways of Power - Story of the Second POWERGRID System Development Project‟,
      the World Bank publication




                                          78
                                                                                                                                                                     TO AGRA                                                                                                                        IBRD 38993
                                                                                                                                            TO JAIPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bulandshahar                                                                         NEPAL
                                                                                   RAJASTHAN
                                                                                                                                                                             GWALIOR
                                                                                     North-West Inter-regional tr. scheme                                                                                                   Kurushetra
                                                    TO KANKROLI

  PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTTAR PRADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Orai


                                                                                                                                                                                          Bina -Gwalior 765kV S/c line (WRSS-II)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BIHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIHAND-III
                                                    ZERDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SASAN
                                                                                                                                                                               BINA(PG)                   SATNA                         V'CHAL POOL
                                                                   SOJA                                                                                              BINA                                                                                   SINGRAULI
                                        RANCHODPURA                                                                                                                                              DAMOH

                                            BACHCHAU                                         WANAKBORI            NAGDA               SHUJALPUR                                                 JABALPUR POOL                            VINDHYACHAL                                   JHARKHAND
            MUNDRA                                            DEHGAM
                                                                                                                                                  BHOPAL
                                                                                        KARAMSAD                                                                    SAGAR                           Seoni-Bina 765kV S/c Charged at 400kV level                                              RANCHI
                                                             PIRANA        NICOL                                                        INDORE(PG)
                                          VARSANA                                                      C                                                    BHOPAL(PG))                                                                                                            C
                                                           LIMDI                                       C                                                                                                                                                   DHARAMJAYGARH           C
                                                                                        ASOJ                                           INDORE                         ITARSI                                       B'PUR
                                                                                                               RAJGARH                                                                             JABALPUR
                                                                                                                  Pithampur
                                                 RAJKOT
                                                                          VADODRA                SARDAR
                                                                                                 SAROVAR
                                                                                                                              Malwa     NARMADA
                                                                                                                                        SAGAR
                                                                                                                                                                                MADHYA PRADESH                   POOLING STN.             KORBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KORBA(STPS)
                                                                                                                                                                        SATPURA                SEONI                                   SIPAT                        RAIGARH(Tamnar)
                                                               GANDHAR(GEB)                                                           Chegaon              BETUL                                                                                                                                  JHARSUGUDA
                                                 AMRELI                                GANDHAR
                                 JETPUR                                                                                                                                                                  BHATAPARA
                                                                                                UKAI                                              C                                                                                                                 RAIGARH POOL
                                                                                                                                                      C                                                                 CHAMPA                                              (Kotra)

                                   GUJARAT                        BHARUCH
                                                                                               KAKRAPAR         DHULE(N)
                                                                                                                                           KHANDWA
                                                                                                                                                                                               KORADI                BHILAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            POOL                                   TO BUDHIPADAR

                                                                  KAWAS
                                                                               VALTHAN                                                                                                                                                    RAIPUR
                                                                NAVSARI                                                                                                                                                                            C                                    ROURKELA
                                                                                                                                 BHUSAWAL                                         MAUDA                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                NAVSARI
                                                             MAGARWADA
                                                                                                       DHULE             DHULE(PG)                        AKOLA                                                                                 C
                                                                                    VAPI                                                                                                                                               RAIPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ORISSA
                                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                   KHADOLI                                                                                     WARDHA      C
                                                                                      KHARADPADA                                                             C
                                                                                                                M'GAON                                           C                                                                     RAIPUR POOL
                                                                                                NASIK
                                                                 TARAPUR    Extn                                                                                                                        Seoni-Wardha Tr. System 765kV S/c Charged at 400kV level
                                                                                                                                  AURANGABAD                                CHANDRAPUR STPS
                                                                                        BOISAR
                                                                                                                       A'BAD                                                                            BHADRAVATI
                                                                                                                 BABLESHWAR
                                                                 NAVI MUMBAI
                                                                                                  PADGHE
                                                                                                                                                                               Wardha-Akola Tr. System
                                                                   KALWA       PADGHE PUNE
                                                                        KHARGHAR
                                                                                                                              MAHARASHPARLI(PG)
                                                                                                                                       TRA
                                                                                        PUNE(GIS)
                                                                                         LONIKHAND
                                                                                                                                                                     Akola-Aurangabad Tr. System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHHATTISGARH
                                                                                                                                 PARLI
                                                            NAGOTHANE                                      SHOLAPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                       TO RAMAGUNDAM
                                                                 DHABOL                                                        SOLAPUR
                                                                                                                                 STPP
                        PSDP-III PROJECT WORKS                                                                           SOLAPUR(PG)
                                                                            KOYNA
                         765kV    400kV     220kV
                                                                                               KARAD
                                                     POWERGRID


                       EXISTING POWER NETWORK
                                                                                                                                                                                  ANDHRA PRADESH
HVDC BIPOLE HVDC BTB     765kV    400kV

                                                     POWERGRID                                                                                  RAICHUR
                                                     SEB                  KOLHAPUR                             KARNATAKA
       UNDER CONSTRUCTION/PROPOSED POWER NETWORK

           1200kV        765kV    400kV     220kV

                                                     POWERGRID                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on
                                                     SEB                       MAPUSA                                                                                                                                              this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                    C                SERIES CAPACITOR
                                                                                                                         Narendra                                                                                                  on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   such boundaries.                                                      DECEMBER 2011
