Documeit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8794
PROJECT COMPLETION .E?PORT
PAKISTAN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1239-PAK)
JUNE 25, 1990
Agtie.ulture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Staff appraisal report - US$1.00 = Rs 11.0
First year (1982-83)    -  US$1.00   Rs 12.7
Final year (1987-88)    -  US$1.00 = Rs 17.6
Fiscal Year of Borrower
July 1 - June 30
Weights and Measures
1 foot (ft)              =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 mile (mi)              =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)              =  0.45 hectare (ha)
1 canal mile (5000 ft)  =  1.524 km
Abbreviations
AC&E         -  Agricultural Commodities and Equipment Agreement
ACOP         -  Alluvial Canal Observation Project
AD?          -  Annual Development Program
CCA          -  Canal Command Area
ECNEC        -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FCC          -  Federal Coordination Cell
GOP          -  Government of Pakistan
GOProvinces  -  Provincial Governments
ISMP         -  Irrigation Systems Management Project
ISRP         -  Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
MinWP        -  Ministry of Water and Power
NDB          -  Non-Development Budget
NESPAK       -  National Engineering Services, Pakistan
NWFP         -  North West Frontier Province
O&M          -  Operation and Maintenance
PC-l         -  Government Project Authorization Document
PCR          -  Project Completion Report
PID          -  Provincial Irrigation Department
RAP          -  Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture
SAR          -  Staff Appraisal Report
SCs          -  Supervisory Consultants
WAPDA        -  Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFIIAUSEOnLY
M14E WORLD BANK
Washingto'. O.C. 20433
US.A.
Olkr e Ovet4wQflGh
June 25, 1990
MENORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1239-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan: Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1239-PAK)l" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office vith Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a stritd distribution and may be used by recipbets only  the perfonncme
of thei officilk dutie Its contents may nt otherwise be disclsed witout Word Dank authonzatio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1239-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
pate No.
PREFACE.                                 * * * * * * ......... ...... * .........................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .................................................
PART I
1.   Project Ideatity .                    .............................................
2.  Background .                  .................................................                     1
3.    Project Objectives  and Description  ...........................                                  2
4.     Project Design and Organization  ..............................                                  4
S.    Project  Implementation  .......................................                                  4
6.     Project Results  ..............................................                                  5
7.     Project  Sustainability  .......................................                                 7
8.    Bank  Performance  and Lessons  Learned  .........................                                7
9.    Borrower  Performance  and Lessons  Learned  .....................                                8
10.     Project Relationship  .........................................                                  9
11.     Consulting  and Contracting  Services  ..........................                               10
12.     Project Documentation  and Data  ...............................                                11
PART  II
I.    Institutional  Performance  and De- .lopment  ...............                        I ....      12
II.     Operating Performance  ........................................                                 14
III.      Post Rehabilitation Economic Re-evaluation  ...................                                 15
IV.     Conclusions  and Recommendations  ..............................                                17
PA,R III
1.    Related  IDA Credits  ..........................................                                 19
2.     Project Timetable  ............................................                                 20
3.     Credit Disbursements  .........................................                                 22
4.     Project  Implementation  .......................................                                23
5.     Project  Costs  and Financing  ..................................                               24
6.     Project Results  ..............................................                                 26
7.     Status  of Covenants  ..........................................                                29
8.    Use  of Bank Resources  ........................................                                 31
Attacbment I ........... ....................  32
Attachment  II  ..................                 .....................................                   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv mn the perfirnmanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withot)i Worldilll;ia .ikth4)ri.ati)fln



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1239-PAK)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews performance under the
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project for which an IDA credit of SDR
35.5 million (No. 1239-PAK) was made in June 1982. The project was
cofinanced by a grant from the US Agency for International Development
(USAID) -- originally US$45.0 million, eventually US$103.0 million. The
credit closing date was extended twice by one year, to December 31, 1987.
To acc.mmodate final disbursements, the credit accounts were kept open for
nine months beyond the closing date. The last disbursement was made on
October 19, 1988, and the undisbursed balance of SDR 510.026 (1.4% of
credit amount) was cancelled as of this date.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme, which visited Pakistan in May 1989, the Agriculture Operations
Divis±on of Country Department I, Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office, and the Borrower. Its preparation was based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit, Guarantee, and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and the draft PCR prepared for the
Borrower by consultants.
Whilst FAO/CP contributed most of Parts I and III, Bank staff
prepared this Preface, the evaluation summary, paras. 2.4 and 2.5, parts of
paras. f 1, 10.1 and 12.1, and the economic reevaluation, and Tables 3b,
8A, 8B of Part III. Bank staff also made some editorial changes to enhance
the clarity of the report. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the
Supervisory Consultants for the project and issued after being approved by
the Ministry of Water and Power. The Ministry's letter confirming this is
in Attachment II.



- ii -
PAKISTAN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1239-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The project was a time-slice of a rehabilitation program for surface
irrigation and surface drainage systems which had badly deteriorated because
of inadequate maintenance. Implemented in all four provinces, its objectives
were to increase agricultural production by providing a more reliable and more
equitable irrigation water suppl) and reducing crop losses from rain flooding,
and to improve operating efficiency and maintenance of existing facilities by
strengthening the Provincial Irrigation Departments' operation and maintenance
(O&W) capability. The project was to be a first phase model of a larger and
continuing program of a similar nature that could be replicated in future
projects.
Implementation Experience
2.       Important differences between expected and actual implementation were
the delayed project start and the two extensions of the credit closing date.
The IDA credit was to become effective, inter alia, on fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the USAID agreement. Because of
delays in signature of the USAID agreement, the IDA credit was only declared
effective on May 11, 1983 -- about nine months later than originally planned.
Due to this initial delay and slower than expected progress in construction,
the closing date was extended twice by one year. Meantime more Rupees became
available due to the depreciation of the Rupee against the SDR and additional
work was undertaken. Initially there were also delays in preparation and
submission of schemes by the Provincial Irrigation Departments because field
engineers were not always fully conversant with the desired standards for
selection and preparation of schemes to be rehabilitated. Few works contracts
were completed on schedule reflecting a weakness of the contracting industry.
Project guidelines emphasized rehabilitation of complete systems or sub-
systems, but early rehabilitation efforts focused on canal reaches in greatest
danger of being breached. Hindsight justifies this approach.
3.       Unforeseen at appraisal, USAID more than doubled its contribution to
the project in response to the Government's request for additional financing.
While funding for civil works remained about the same, that for technical
assistance, equipment, and training increased substantially.
4.       Although not specifically stated in the SAR, provision had been made
for agro-economic evaluation. This evaluation was initiated only in November
1985. Based on two post-rehabilitation periods for samples from twenty
watercourses, the results are insufficient to determine the true project
impact.



- iii -
5.       Whether the principal pro4ect objective of increasing agricultural
production has been achieved, cannot be shown conclusively because of
insufficient data. However, hydraulic evaluation found that there was a
significant increase in surface water deliveries to tail-end farmers,
indicating a more equitable distribution of irrigation water. Evaluation of
nine of the systems monitored showed no breach in any of the channels after
rehabilitation. Water carrying capacity of rehabilitated drains improved
considerably, reducing crop losses from rain flooding. Great satisfaction
with the results of rehabilitation has been expressed by all parties involved.
The project's economic rate of return, re-estimated on the basis of appraisal
assumptions, information contained in the appraisal report for the follow-on
project, and current commodity price forecasts, is very favorable, in line
with appraisal expectations (over 5OX). Even if the assumed benefit4ng area
is halved, the rate of return would still be 301.
Sustainability
6.       Project works have improved the most critical sections of surface
irrigation and surface drainage systcms. If an acesptable level of benefits
is to be sustained, a continuing program of maintenance and repair is
essential, which requires adequate funding. While provincial governments have
significantly increased 0&K funding, fully meeting the covenant in the Project
Agreements, the portion allocated to canals, drains and flood protection works
has actually declined. The risk remains that O0M funding for the irrigation
and drainage systems. will continue to be insufficient, particularly as
periodic renewal and repair will be needed in addition to routine maintenance.
Lessons Learned
7.       Lessons from project implementation which may be relevant to other
Bank-financed projects are the following. When cofinancing is arranged, the
cofinanciers should be in full agreement on concept, objectives, and focus of
the project they support (para 10.2). To prevent under-utilization of
equipment provided under cofinancing arrangements, the Bank should make sure
that only specific project needs are satisfied and adequate budgetary
allocation is made for operating expenses (para 6.3). In order to permit
meaningful agro-economic evaluation, a baseline survey should be carried out
before project works start, and monitoring should continue after project
completion (para 5.4).
8.       The following lessons may be relevant to the Borrower in preparing
and implementing similar rehabilitation projects. To ensure that irrigation
and drainage systems produce acceptable agricultural benefits, a continuing
program of maintenance and repair is essentiol, which requires adequate
funding (para 7.1 and para 6 above). Techniques of system modernization
developed by foreign technical assistance should be tested under local
conditions before they are propagated (para 11.2). To prevent delays in the
start of project works, field engineers should receive instruction in the
desired standard for selection and preparation of schemes right from the
beginning (para 5.2 and para 2 above).



PAKISTAN
IBIGATION SYSTEMS.REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1239-PAK)
PROJECT COMPlElTION REPORT
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name:  Irrigation Systems Rehab.i.tation Project
Credit No.:    1239-PAK
RVP Unit:      EttlAG
Country:       Pakistan
Sector:        Agriculture
Subsector:     Irrigation
2. Backgroun
2.1       Up to the late 1970s, the Government of Pakistan's (GOP)
agricultural policies stressed large water sector projects (Tarbela and Mangla
Dams, link canals, and salinity control and drainage projects) and also
included various food and input subsidies (on wheat, euible oil, tubewells,
water charges, fertilizer and pesticides). Some essential requirements for
expanded agricultural production such as field-oriented research, training and
extension programs, water management and O&M of the existing irrigation system
were largely neglected. This unbalanced approach was a major factor in
retarding agricultural growth, since neither increased use of inputs nor
substantial investments in water supply infrastructure ha4 the expected impact
on agricultural production. With input subsidies and major new investments
preempting the bulk of available resources, budgetary allocations for the
institutions which provide service for the farming community and wh'ch operate
and maintain existing facilities have been inadequate.
2.2       The above issues were considered at length in WAPDA's "Revised
Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture" (RAP), a UNDP-supported exercise for
which the Bank was the executing agency. Published in May 1979, the report
recommended a revised strategy designed, within continuing resource
constraints, to complement the major irrigation facilities already established
rather than create major new infrastructure or extend the irrigated area, and
to generate additional resources through quick-yielding investments. Emphasis
was placed on rehabilitation of the existing irrigation system (accumulated
maintenance), promotion of watercourse improvements (investments below the
outlet from the minor canal), provision of essential drainage and improvements
in the overall management of the system to maximize agricultural returns from
existing water supplies. Institutional recommendations aimed et improving
coordination and cooperation among different government agenci.s. The report
also recommended the elimination of subsidies (on fertilizer, tubewells, pest
control, etc.) and a three-fold increase in water charges over the next five



years so that these would cover the increased O&M costs of the irrigation
system.
2.3       Following the Bank's general endorsement of RAP's major
recommendations, discussions were held with GOP with a view to agreeing on a
lending program which would best promote the RAP's objectives. At the time, a
number of possible water sector projects were under discussion, of which the
Irrigation and Flood Protection Rehabilitation Project was one. This project
had been essentially designed to support the ongoing operations of the
Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs).
2.4       The initial proposal had been for a project to support the flood
protection activities of ths PIDs. Bank reports and consultants' studies had
emphasized the crucial need for improving routine maintenance of flood
protection and drainage facilities if damage of the type caused by the 1973
and 1976 floods was to be avoided. However, since the problem of inadequate
recurrent funds and deteriorating facilities applied equally to the irrigation
operations of the PIDs, it became evident that, rather than confining the
project to the flood protection activities of the PIDs, a more appropriate
approach would be to broaden ite scope to cover their activities as e whole.
Not only would this permit a more satisfactory review of their priority needs
but it would also avoid the risk of any imbalance that might result from
overemphasis on one aspect of their operations. In March 1980, GOP agreed to
the revision in the project concept, and an IDA identification mission visited
Pakistan in April.
2.5       During appraisal (June 1981), agreement was reached with GOP that
the pr.,ject would comprise the rehabilitation of existing irrigation and
surface drainage works, and a program to strengthen the 06N capability of the
PIDs. Tubewells and closed subsurface drains would be excluded. Generally,
rehabilitation of flood protection facilities would not be included, since
this work was seen to be appropriately covered in the Federal Annual
Development Program (ADP) administered by the Federal Flood Commission.
However, equipment funed by the project would also be employed on flood
protection works. The project's uname was changed to Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (ISRP).
3.   Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1       The Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1239-PAK) was to
finance a three-year (FY83-85) time-slice of a rehabilitation program for
approved surface irrigation and surface drainage systems that had badly
deteriorated because of inadequate maintenance. The project, the physical
targets of which were to remain flexible, was to be implemented in all four
provinces. Its objectives were to (a) increase agricultural production by
(i) providing a more reliable irrigation water supply through an improved
irrigation network, and (ii) reducing crop losses resulting from rain flooding
by improving the surface drainage system; (b) provide a more equitable
irrigation water supply to all farmers by increasing deliveries to
watercourses in the tail reaches of minors and distributaries through a
program of silt removal in these reaches; (c) strengthen the capability of the
PIDs' O&4 programs so as to improve efficiency of system operations and assure



- 3 -
continued maintenance of installed facilities; and (d) serve as a Phase I
model of a larger program of a similar nature that could be replicated in
future projects.
3.2       The project consisted of:
(a)  System fehabilitation.  The project was to provide earthwork, stone
pitching, and repair of hydraulic structures for about 14,000 km of
canals as well as cleaning and resectioning of about 3,500 km of
surface drains. Rehabilitation within the Indus system was to be
limited to existing operating or design capacities, whichever was
greater. Rehabilitation of canal systems or subsystems outside the
Indus system was to meet specific criteria.
(b) Workshop and Warehouse Facilities. Provision was made for repairs
and additions to two workshops in Sind and one in NWFP, and for
three new small workshops, one to be located in NWFP and two in
Baluchistan.
(c) Eauipment. Finance was provided to alleviate the deficiencies of
the PIDs' equipment fleets which were not properly balanced for the
type of work required. The project was also to provide replacements
for equipment at or near the end of its economic life, and spare
parts for existing and new equipment.
(d) Technical Assistance comprising (i) expatriate specialists
(warehouse operations and equipment preventive maintenance and
repair, 36 m/m; and strengthening PID's OU4 programs and procedures,
about 66 m/m); (ii) local supervisory consultants (SCs, about 594
m/m) to assist the Ministry of Water and Power (MinWP) and PIDs in
monitoring project progress and quality of work, equipment,
budgeting control, processing reimbursement applications, preparing
reports and annual work programs; and (iii) a local organization to
carry out an independent evaluation of the project and assist PIDs
in project monitoring.
(e)  Trainig.  The project was to provide (i) about 25 study tours to
both technically advanced and developing countries with comparable
irrigation, surface drainage and flood protection facilities, (ii)
in-country and on-the-job training in O&H programs and procedures
for about 900 personnel with the rank of assistant engineers and
above, and (iii) in-country and on-the-job training for staff with
equipment workshop and warehouse responsibilities.
(f)  Supervision and Administration.  Funds were provided for staffing a
Federal Coordinating Cell (FCC) under the direct supervision of the
Civil Engineering Advisor in the office of the Secretary, MinWP.
3.3       Total cost for the three-year implementation period was estimated at
US$118.1 M equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$32.1 M or 27X.
The IDA credit of SDR 35.5 M (US$40 M) was to finance about 37X of total
project cost, net of taxes and duties. The US Agency for International



Development (USAID) was to provide US$45 H which would fund an additional 421
of total project cost, net of taxes and duties. GOP and GOProvinces were to
finance the remaining US$33.1 M-equivalent, including taxes and duties, from
their budgetary resources. The PIDs were responsible for implementing the
projec:. The Federal Ministry of Water and Power (MinUP) was responsible for
project coordination between the Ministry and each of tbe PIDs, as well as
among the PIDs along with administering technical assistance and project
monitoring and evaluation. The FCC was to ensure the effective
implementation, coordination and supervision of the project.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.1       The overall concept, the rehabilitation of existing irrigation and
drainage systems, was well founded as about 90X of Pakistan's agricultural
production depends on irrigation. As a result of completion of major link
canals which increased the total amount of water in the system, canals were
being run with virtually no free board which led to frequent breaches with
coriiderable loss in output.  Because of low irrigation water charges, the
financial resources of the provinces were insufficient to allow for adequate
maintenance and repair of canals and drains. The result was a gradual
accumulation of maintenance needs and a general deterioration of the system as
a whole. A project that provided financing for earthworks, i.e. for the
restoration of free board of canals, strengthening of canal banks, desilting
of canals and clearance of drainage channels, was thus highly justified.
National Engineering Services, Pakistan (NESPAK) was engaged by GOP to prepare
a feasibility report for the project.
4.2       At appraisal, technical and institutional concepts had been endorsed
by GOP and the roles and responsibilities of the PIDs and of the institutions
at the federal level had been clearly established. The overall scope and
phasing was in line with expected GOP and GOProvinces' budgetary allocations
for the project, but it was recognized that financial constraints could arise
which would necessitate adjustments in proposed targets during implementation.
Since the project was highly flexible, this risk could readily be accommodated
either through reduction in the number of schemes to be rehabilitated or by
spreading the project implementation period.
4.3       The project was not intended to break new ground, its basic
objectives being (i) rehabilitation I existing works to enable them to
perform at least their originally designed functions, and (ii) strengthening
of the O&M capability of the PIDs. Implementation through the PIDs was an
aspect of project design which contributed to success. At the provincial
level, implementation was enhanced by the assistance provided by the SCs.
Provision was made for evaluation to be carried out by an independent unit.
However, the choice of WAPDA's Alluvial Canal Observation Project (ACOP) to
undertake this work restricted evaluation to hydraulic monitoring.
5.   Proiect Imolementation
5.1       The most critical differences between planned and actual project
implementation were its delayed start and its two one-year extensions which
were partly the result of proposed cofinancing arrangements. The IDA credit



- 5 -
wan to become effective on the fulfillment of the conditions that: (i) the SCs
had been appointed; (ii) the Executive-Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC) had approved the.PC-l documents with respect to the project;
and (iii) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the USAID agreement
had been met. The USAID agreement was not signed until June 1983 (para 10.1).
However, as all conditions precedent to its effectiveness had been fulfilled
by GOP, Credit 1239-PAK was declared effective on May 11, 1983. Since the
initial delays made it impossible for the project to be completed within the
stipulated period, the closing date was extended twice by one year. Heanwhile
more rupees had become available due to the depreciation of the rupee against
the SDR/US$ and additional work was undertaken.
5.2       Initially there were also delays in preparation and submission of
schemes by PIDs because ';he field engineers were not always fully conversant
with the desired standard for selection and preparation of schemes to be
rehabilitated. Very few contracts were completed on schedule which reflected
a weakness of the contracting industry. Project guidelines emphasized
rehabilitation of compl'te systems or sub-systems and systems with inequitable
water deliveries. In practice, however, early rehabilitation efforts were
concentrated on canal reaches in most danger of being breached. Hindsight
shows that this was a justified approach because a somewhat greater area than
envisaged at appraisal was protected from immediate risk.
5.3       At the time of app.aisal, USAID had agreed to contribute US$45 M to
finance part of the civil works, most of the equipment, upgrading of PID
workshops, and part of the technical assistance and training. What could not
lave been foreseen was that USAID increased its contribution to the project
from US$45 M to US$103 H in response to GOP's request for additional
financing. The level of funding for civil works remained about the same, but
funding for technical assistance increased from US$1.4 M to about US$29 M, and
that for training from US$0.3 H to US$11.7 M. Funding for equipment increased
from US$20.2 H to US$42 M.
5.4       Although not specifically stated in the SAR, provision had been made
for agro-economic evaluation. This evaluation was, however, initiated only in
November 1985. Therefore, a baseline survey could not be undertaken by the
Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate of WAPDA which only then was
entrusted with the agro-economic evaluation. Based on only two
post-rehabilitation periods for samples from 20 watercourses (10 project and
10 non-project), the results are inconclusive, and the evaluation should have
been continued over a longer period to determine the true project impact.
6.   Proiect Results
6.1       Whether the principal project objective of increasing agricultural
production (para 3.1) has been achieved, cannot be shown conclusively because
sufficient data on benefits directly attributable to the project are not
available. The reasons include: (i) rehabilitation was not undertaken for
complete sub-systems as originally envisaged (para 5.2); (ii) agro-economic
evaluation, being based on only two post-rehabilitatior periods (para 5.4),
was inconclusive; and (iii) the unknown impact of other factors such as



benefits from on-farm development, improvement in watercourses and moghasV or
presence of private tubewells. However, the ACOP hydraulic evaluation (para
4.3) found that there was a significant increase in surface water deliveries
to tail-end chaks, indicating a more equitable distribution of irrigation
water. Evaluation of 9 of the systems monitored indicates no breach in any of
the 163 channels in the systems after rehabilitation, 155 showing improvements
in head reaches, 132 in tail reaches, and 80 in equitable distribution. Water
carrying capacities of drains rehabilitated under the project were found to
have improved considerably, thus reducing, if not altogether eliminating, crop
losses by flood waters. Great satisfaction with the results of the
rehabilitation work has been expressed by all parties involved. The project's
economic rate of return (ERR), re-estimated on the basis of appraisal
assumptions, information contained in the appraisal report for the follow-on
project, and current commodity price projections (see comments, Part III, 6B),
is very favorable (over 50X), in line with appraisal expectations. Even if
the assumed benefiting area is halved, the principal sensitivity test done at
appraisal (SAR, para 7.11), the ERR would still be 301. The satisfaction of
Federal and Provincial officials with the project is also attested by the
inclusion of funds in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY89-93) for a continuing
rehabilitation program and undertaking of the Second Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project.
6.2       Civil Works.  Rehabilitation of canal banks and minor structures was
carried out under local competitive bidding (LCB) by private contractors.
Resectioning of drainage channels and wet excavation was undertaken under
force account by PIDs. Due to close supervision the standard of civil works
improved throughout the project implementation period. By undertaking a major
civil works program the project provided a positive impact on PID staff.
Civil wotks targets expressed in terms of total volumes of earthworks were
substantially achieved, although the first year's target proved to be
over-ambitious. The costs of rehabilitation, and hence targets achieved, were
highly sensitive to the ratio of volume of stonework to earthwork undertaken,
the unit cost of the former being 10 to 30 times greater than the latter.
6.3       EguiRment was intended to complement the PIDs' fleets.  However,
most of the equipment supplied was of a large type more suited to the
rehabilitation of larger canal embankments and drains, rather than light
equipment of the type required for small and medium-sized canals, removal of
sediment from operating canals and for improving the efficiency and qualicy of
labor-intensive operations. Equipment was underutilized on project works for
the following reasors: (i) not all of the equipment provided was appropriate;
(ii) shortage of funds and staff for operating the equipment; (iii) cumbersome
nature of departmental funding procedures for equipment rental, both
inter-departmental and to contractors; (iv) the belief that the use of
equipment instead of labor would substantially increase costs; and (v) the
seasonal nature of the work.
g    A mogha is the controlled outlet from parent canal to chak; a chak is the
lowest order or irrigation command (about 450 ac).



6.4       Technical &ssistance supplied by the project was increased (para
11.1) due to the importance attached by- USAID to increasing the capabilities
of institutions involved in irrigation planning, design, research, operation
and maintenance, and bringing about policy changes needed for proper
irrigation water management.
6.5       Training.  The project provided a broad range of in-country and
overseas training covering topics such as surveying, design, construction,
inspection, 06&, computer, administration, budgeting, workshop and warehouse
management, mechanical and equipment operation, simulation and mathematical
modelling, and quality control.  About 1,500 PID and GOP officials received
formal in-country traiL4...6, and 275 have received formal overseas training
including three at tvia -:Ltoral and 52 at the masters level. In addition,
there have been nume    tLreign study tours organized for Provincial and
Federal officials, as wel- as a significant amount of on-the-job training.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1       Civil works under the project have improved the most critical
sections of surface irrigation and surface drainage systems that had badly
deteriorated due to an accumulation of deferred maintenance. A continuing
program of maintenance and repair is essential if an acceptable level of net
benefits is to be sustained. Such a program requires adequate O61M funding.
Whilst O& funding has been significantly increased by provincial governments,
fully meeting the covenant in the Project Agreements, the portion of the
Non-Development Budget (NDB) allocated to canals, drains and floodaprotection
has in fact declined relative to establishment and tubewell allocations and in
real terms. The risk remains that funds allocated for O& of the irrigation
and drainage systems will continue to be insufficient, particularly as
periodic renewal and repair will be required in addition to traditional
routine maintenance. Technical assistance provided under the project produced
a large number of reports dealing with maintenance planning and programming.
However, these were not always conclusive and some ware drafted too late to
have had an impact on field practice as yet.
8. Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
8.1       The Bank's major contribution to the project was in providing funds
for a time slice of a national program for irrigation systems rehabilitation,
and in addressing the PIDs' financial constraints. Through financing of local
supervisory consultants the Bank helped to improve the technical capability of
the PIDs. The Bank demonstrated its awareness of sensitive issues by avoiding
any action which would affect provincial water allocations and by assuring
that IDA neither directly nor by implication became involved in that matter.
During appraisal it was found that determining the capacity to which the
canals should be rehabilitated could become a controversial issue.
Furthermore, to avoid potential conflicts, it was concluded that main canals
taking water directly from the Indus and its major tributaries should not be
included under the rehabilitation program. To provide a lasting solution to
the problem of shortage of O&M funding of the PIDs, the Bank introduced
covenants in the Project Agreements with the provinces for the increase of
revenues from water charges to cover an increasing percentage of the cost of



operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities located in the respective
province 80 that by certain dates (Baluchistan July 1, 1991; NWFP July 1,
1991; Punjab July 1, 1990; Sind.July 1, 1988) the full cost of such O&H would
be recovered.
8.2       The Bank carried out 13 supervision missions, of which six were in
association with USAID, the cofinancing agency. Staff continuity during
supervision was good. The existence of the Bank's resident mission assured a
continuous dialogue with the Borrower and facilitated supervision.
8.3       The main lessons which emerge from the implementation of ISRP, which
may be relevant to other Bank-financed projects, relate to the following:
(a) whenever cofinancing is arranged, cofinanciers should be fully in
agreement on concept, objectives and focus of the project (para
10.2);
(b) in order to prevent under-utilization of machinery and equipment
funded under cofinancing arrangements, the Bank should make sure
that only specific project needs are satisfied and that adequate
budgetary provision is made for operating expenses (para 6.3); and
(c) in order to permit a meaningful agro-economic evaluation, a baseline
survey should be carried out prior to initiating any project works,
and monitoring should be continued after project completion (para
5.4).
9.   Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
9.1       During project preparation the Borrower engaged consultants (NESPAK)
to prepare a feasibility report for the project which served as the principal
reference document during appraisal. MinWP played a leading role by
establishing FCC, thus ensuring coordination between the Ministry and each of
the PIDs who were responsible for project implementation. It also established
a quarterly Federal Review Board Meeting.
9.2       Both GOP and GOProvinces fully met their financial obligations for
adequate implementation of the project, regularly allocated funds in their
respective Annual Development Programs (ADPs), and released the funds in
accordance with the requirements of the project. Normally rehabilitation
works should be financed out of the Provincial non-development budgets (NDBs).
However, due to the paucity of fund& in the NDBs, GOP authorized the inclusion
of certain deferred maintenance schemes, designated as rehabilitation works,
in the Provincial ADPs.
9.3       The Borrower complied with all the covenants agreed upon at
negotiations except for the financial covenant concerned with increasing water
charges periodically or making other appropriate financial arrangements to
cover an increasing percentage of the cost of O&M, which has only been
partially complied with.



9,4       The main lessons of experience for the Borrower which may be
relevant in the preparation and implementation of similar rehabilitation
projects, can be summarized as follows:
(a) for irrigation and drainage systems a continuing program of
maintenance and repair is essential if an acceptable level of
agricultural benefits is to be sustained. Such a program requires
adequate funding (para 7.1);
(b) techniques of system modernization to be propagated by foreign
technical assistance should first be tested under local conditions
(para 11.2); and
(c) in otder to avoid unnecessary delays in rehabilitation work at
project start, field engineers should be given training in the
desired standard for selection and preparation of schemes right from
the beginning of the project (para 5.2).
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1      Based on the appraisal of the project by IDA, GOP entered into a
Development Credit Agreement with the Association in June 1982, through which
the Association agreed to provide a credit of SDR 35.5 M (No. 1239-PAK), or
US$40.0 M. USAID agreed to provide a cofinancing grant of US$45 M, which was
subsequently increased to US$65 M, under its agreement with GOP dated June 5,
1983, entitled Irrigation Systems Management Project (ISMP) Agreement.
Although belatedly, work on IDA schemes started in 1982-83 while none of the
USAID schemes could be executed during that year. The 1982-83 schemes which
initially had been earmarked for USAID funding, and on which the PIDs had
started work during the year, had to be reassigned to IDA. All ISMP
activities, excluding the Command Water Management component, were to be
carried out over a period of five years from the date of signing of the USAID
agreement, but activities relating to rehabilitation works were to be
completed in accordance with the three-year ISRP implementation schedule
agreed with IDA. However, due to their late start the USAID-funded schemes
continued beyond the completion date of the IDA-funded schemes.
10.2      ISRP and ISMP were intended to be highly complementary.  While IDA
emphasized the financing of civil works construction and provided local
supervisory consultants, USAID focused primarily on the provision of equipment
and workshop rehabilitation, technical assistance, and training. Both parties
relied on the federal and provincial coordinating cells utilizing the same
scope and approach to the civil works component. Both promoted the same
policy changes, and incorporated the same covenants in their respective
project agreements. However, on a more substantive level, USAID shifted the
focus of its contribution from rehabilitation and improved O&M to
rehabilitation and system design in the belief that new design criteria were
necessary to solve canal siltation problems. This shift of focus was the
cause of some initial delays in the project, which emphasizes the need for
cofinanciers to agree on a common approach to concept, objectives and focus of
a project.



- 10 -
11. Consulting and Contracting Services
11.1      The amount of technical assistance provided under the project was
increased to a level that was much higher than envisaged at appraisal. As
more funds became available from the USAID contribution (para 5.3), the number
of expatriate specialists' m/m increased from 102 m/m to 660 m/m, assisted by
835 m/m of local experts.  Because of the two project extensions and also the
additional duties assigned to them, the use of local supervisory consultants
went up from 594 m'm to approximately 3,000 m/m.
11.2      The expatriate resident team (Planning Research Corporation/Checchi)
cooperated with PID officers to: (a) assist in improving O&M programs;
(b) prepare O&M manuals; (c) undertake studies and analyses on O&X
requirements and water charges; (d) develop new hydraulic design criteria for
redesigning alluvial canals -- particularly those with chronic hydraulic
problems; (e) prepare design reports on several branch canals; (f) facilitate
efficient operation of equipment fleets and related workshops and warehouses;
(g) develop programs for management improvements -- including micro
computerization; and (h) provide manpower development and training programs.
Although the initial stage of this program was hampered by a fragmented and
decentralized management structure and staffing problems, the technical
assistance had considerable impact in some areas. Among other things, the
foreign technical assistance resulted in the publication of about 225 reports
on the above subjects. However, there was an understandable reluctance of
PIDs (and sometimes of the SCs) to accept techniques of system modernization
before they had been tested under local conditions.
11.3      The local supervisory consultants (NESPAK) assisted PIDs and FCC by:
(a) reviewing all plans and designs for technical compliance; (b) checking
all civil works against agreed specifications; (c) preparing quarterly and
annual progress reports and annual work plans; and (d) preparing and
certifying reimbursement applications. Providing supervisory consultants in
IDA-assisted water sector projects has proved to be useful to GOP and
GOProvinces in carrying out their implementation responsibilities. Although
some provinces, Baluchistan in particular, would have welcomed an increase in
SC involvement, the role of SCs could be gradually reduced as institution
building takes place so that, except for quality/quantity control, the PlDs
eventually carry out the above tasks.
11.4      Local contractors undertook rehabilitation of canal banks and minor
structures. This is their traditional role in view of the seasonal character
of the work (often during canal closure), ease of local PID supervision of
scattered sites and the need to provide local employment. Stricter
supervision, adherence to specifications and use of appropriate equipment,
tractor trolleys and compactors resulted in a progressive increase in
standards of workmanship. The experience gained by these contractors, whio
will execute future maintenance and repair work, will thus contribute to a
higher degree of sustainability. The SAR proposal to strengthen the private
civil works industry through equipment rental met with certain constraints.
These included cumbersome departmental contracting procedures, non-competitive
equipment rentals, comparatively small tender packages, scattered nature of



- 11 -
the works and the fact that, apart from work on drainage channels, unit costs
make equipment use non-competitive with labor-intensive methods.
12. Ploiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The inclusion of the words "other appropriate financial
arrangements" in the cost recovery covenants of the Project Agreements made
the covenants difficult to monitor. GOP and GOProvinces interpreted this
wording to include several agricultural cesses and fees. Therefore, they have
been of the view that they were in compliance with the covenants. However,
the Bank considered that these cesses and fees were not acceptable because
generally they were earmarked for specific governmental services provided to
farmers. In subsequent credit agreements the wording was dropped. Credit
1888-PAK (Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project), for instance,
speaks only of cost recovery "through water and/or drainage charges".
12.2      The SAR provided a useful framework for the Bank during project
implementation. Its key tables, in particular those concerning targetted
levels of provincial O&M funding, the schedule of targets and costs for civil
works, the estimated schedule for disbursements, were used as benchmarks
during supervision. Most relevant to the Borrower were the presentation of
the project concept and the criteria to be applied in selecting schemes to be
rehabilitated. The PC-l for the project was based on the SAR.
12.3      A PCR has been prepared by NESPAK which was endorsed, with minor
comments, by GOP. Consisting of several volumes, this report contains a
detailed description of project implementation, in particular of the civil
works carried out. Sufficient data that would allow a quantification of
project benefits were not available for the following reasons: no baseline
survey had been done prior to project start and the agro-economic evaluation
was started only towards the end of the project (para 5.4). Moreover, because
of the scattered nature of the civil works undertaken no attempt has been made
in the Borrower's PCR to revise the SAR estimates of number of benefiting farm
families, benefiting command area, increase in per capita income and
incremental production of major crops.



* 12 -
PART I I
I. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
The Government of Pakistan implemented the Project through the following
agencies:-
-   Federal Coordination Cell
-   Provincial Irrigation Departments
-   Supervisory Consultants
- Monitorinf and Evaluation Consultants
-  ACOP
-   PIO
*  Expatriate Consultants
Private Contractors
1.1 Federal Coordination Cell
As required by the Development Credit Agreement and Project Grant Agreement, a
Federal Coordination Cell (FCC) was set up in the Office of the Chief
Engineering Advisor/Chairman Federal Flood Commission (CEA/CFFC) in June,
1982. The Federal Coordination Cell was headed by a Chief Engineer who was
reporting to the CEA/CFFC. FCC was the coordinating agency for the
implementation of the Project and generally supervised all ISR and ISM Project
activities.
NESPAK, who were appointed as Supervisory Consultants, assisted the FCC in
effective implementation of the Project and coordination.
The FCC continued to function throughout the implementation period of the
Project and discharged all its responsibilities satisfactorily. Periodic
Project review meetings were held which helped in resolving problems, if any,
at appropriate level and expedite the progress of works. The Federal
Government also fulfilled its commitments under the agreements with IDA and
USAID.
1.2 Provincial Irrigation Departments
Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs) were responsible for the
implementation of the Project in the four provinces of Punjab, Sind, NWF and
Baluchistan. Each PID nominated a senior officer (Chief Engineer in Punjab and
Sind and Superintending Engineer in NWFP and Baluchistan) as Provincial
Coordinator to coordinate Project programmes within their respective
departments and assist the Secretary of the respective PID in carrying out his
responsibilities.
The rehabilitation works were actually carried out through their field
organizations either by force account/Project supplied equipment or labour
intensive method by engaging petty contractors. Supervisory Consultants



- 13 -
assisted the PIDs in implementation of the Project. Despite initial delays in
start up of the Project, 6 months in case of IDA funded schemes and 18 months
in case of USAID funded schemes,,thv PIDs almost achieved the SAR's civil
works targets by June 30, 1986, the extended date of Project implementation
period. Additional Pak Rupees became available due to less than estimated
price escalation and continuous depreciation of the Pak Rupee and PIDs
undertook additional schemes with the approval of Government of Pakistan,
IDA/USAID, to fully utilize the Credit/Grant and successfully utilized the IDA
Credit by June 30, 1988. USAID funded schemes, however, continue beyond June
30, 1988, to utilize the Grant.
The Provincial Governments maintained a regular flow of funds for execution of
schemes and ensured to claim reimbursements of the expenditure incurred. The
Provincial Governments also fulfilled their commitments under the agreements
with IDA/USAID by enhancing the O&M funding as well as preparing proposals for
increasing water charges towards full recovery of O&M costs.
Institutional improvements by developing technical skills through Technical
Assistance and training programmes were achieved resulting in improvement of
PIDs' organizational efficiency.
With the Project supplied equipment, PIDs' capability to undertake
rehabilitation works and O&M of canals and drains has improved. PlIs carried
out drains rehabilitation through Project supplied equipment in a satisfactory
manner. Vibratory cor)actors improved the compaction standards considerably.
PIDs also became aware of IDA/USAID procedures for scheme implementation and
reimbursement which will further improve their performance in the second phase
of the Project.
The Provincial Irrigation Departments of the four Provinces have, therefore,
performed well and satisfactorily.
1.3 Suiervisorv Consultants
Supervisory Consultants (SC) were appointed to assist the FCC in supervising
the Project implementation, including review and clearance of schemes,
processing of reimbursement applications, preparing PC-ls and Project work
plans, monitoring the progress of the Project and preparing progress and
completion reports in addition to numerous evaluations and reviews of various
aspects of Project implementation.
The SC supervised the implementation of the Project throughout the Project
implementation period. The services rendered by the SC have been
satisfactory and they carried out their responsibilities well.



- 14 -
1.4 Private Contractors
Because of the seasonal nature of works, scattered over a wide are. mostly
petty contractors were engaged and no contractor of repute could i.nducted
for undertaking the rehabilitation works of canals and drains. In. ially, the
performance of contractors was not satisfactory and completion of schemes was
delayed. However, during implementation of the Project, the contractors became
familiarized with the construction standards and appropriate construction
methods, with the result that gradually the quality of work produced became
reasonably satisfactory.
II. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
The Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (ISRP), cofinanced by IDA and
USAID, envisaged rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems in
Pakistan, upgrading of existing and construction of new PID workshops in four
Provinces, and building up of PIDs' management, operational and maintenance
capabilities. The Project in-.-olved execution of the following works:-
Civil Works
Procurement of Equipment and Spares
Building up PIDs' Management, Operational and
Maintenance Capabilities
Reports, Studies and Reviews
2.1 Civil Works
2.1.1 Rehabilitation of Irritation & Drainage Systems
Canal rehabilitation works involved raising of the canal banks to obtain
required freeboard, widening of canal banks to improve operational safety,
desilting and resectioning of canal prisms, and repairs to hydraulic
structures. Drains required cleaning, resectioning as well as repairs to the
structures.
Rehabilitation works were carried out either by machines, or by labour
intensive methods. Specifications were enforced and desired compaction
achieved. Required freeboard was also obtained in rehabilitated canals. During
the implementation of the Project, design and specifications were also
improved.
Equity and reliability of irrigation water supply was improved in
rehabilitated canals. Water carrying capacity of drains also improved
considerably. No breach has been reported in rehabilitated canal reaches.
2.1.2 Workshops
PIDs' workshops and warehouses were generally old and antiquated. Buildings
were inadequate and in need of substantial repairs. Six workshops, three in
Punjab and one each in Sind, Nt4FP a..- Baluchistan, have been upgraded to



- 15 -
accommodate additional equipment, to provide adequate space for spare parts,
inventories and maintenance activities and to provide sufficient lighting and
dust free area for precision equipment.
2.2 Procurement of Eouipment Spares
The Project provided for import of earthmoving and workshop equipment, and
hydraulic measuring and research equipment under the USAID funded Agricultural
Commodities and Equipment Programme.
In order to balance the PIDs' existing equipment fleet for the works to be
undertaken and to provide replacement to old and outdated available equip.ent,
lists of equipment, spares and machine tools for the four provinces were
prepared and reviewed at various levels and by various agencies. The spare
parts for new equipment were also provided. The equipmer.t, workshop machines
and tools provided under the Project greatly improved the O&M capabilities of
the PIDs as well as their capacity to undertake rehabilitation works
departmentally.
2.3 Building Mg PIDs' Management. Ogerational
and Maintenance Capabilities
An international engineering consulting firm (M/s Planning Research
Corporation/Checchi) provided expatriate and local experts who worked with
PIDs to improve O&M programmes, prepare O&M manuals, undertake studies and
analysis on O&M requirements and water charges, develop new hydraulic design
criteria (HDC) for redesigning alluvial channels. particularly those with
hydraulic problems, prepare design reports on several branch channels,
facilitate efficient operation of equipment fleets and related workshops and
warehouses, and develop a programme for management improvement including micro
computerization and providing manpower development and training programmes.
This was achieved through a programme of Technical Assistance and Training.
The programme was however, hampered at the initial stage by inadequate
coordination, involvement and input by PIDs. Hence, follow up activities will
continue to realize the full benefits from this effort.
2.4 Reports. Studies and Reviews
All the reviews, studies and reports, as visualized in the Project, were
undertaken and are with :-.ppropriate agencies for appropriate actions.
III. POST REHABILITATION ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
The purpose of economic re-evaluation is to compare the appraisal expectations
with the actual results achieved cn completion of the Project and to see
whether the Project was worthwhile, in retrospect.
The benefits (both tangible and intangible) of investment in rehabilitating
the irrigation and drainage systems, building up of management and operational



- 16 -
capabilities of PIDs, and strengthening of PIDs' operational and maintenance
programmes and procedures are appreciable but cannot be translated into
monetary terms. As such an effort in calculating benefit/cost ratio would only
be academic in nature. However, some of the benefits accrued or expected to
accrue on completion of the Project are outlined below:-
i)    Because of the scattered nature of works, benefits directly attributable
to the Project are difficult to identify. It has however, been observed that
there has been significant increase in surface water deliveries to tail end
chaks of the rehabilitated channels, indicating a more equitable distribution
of irrigation waters. Not a single breach of rehabilitated channels has been
reported, w*hich contributed to reliable irrigation water supplies. Water
carrying capacity of rehabilitated drains has also improved, thus reducing
crop losses by rain floods. These improvements definitely supplemented the
agricultural production in areas served by rehabilitated canals and drainage
systems/subsystems;
ii)   Project supplied equipment atid spares helped to improve PIDs' capacities
in undertaking rehabilitation works and maintenance of the facilities;
iii) Upgrading of existing workshops as well as provision of new workshop
machines and tools has enhanced PIDs' capabilities for equipment servicing and
maintenance;
iv)   Technical Assistance, provided by N/s Planning Research
Corporation/Checchi, has improved the PIDs' management, operational and
maintenance capabilities;
v)    Training both in-country and overseas in surveying, design,
construction, inspection, O&M, computer administration, budgeting, workshop
and warehouse management, mechanical and equipment operation, simulation and
mathematical modelling and quality control has helped the PIDs in developing
necessary expertise to improve their organizational efficiency;
vi)   The positive impact of the Project has contributed towards the
continuation of the rehabilitation programme through a second phase to be
undertaken from July, 1988 to June, 1993;
vii) Study of the development of the civil works contracting industry has
pinpointed the problems being faced by the industry, and actions can be
initiated to resolve them so that this industry can be strengthened; and
viii) The confidence in domestic consulting engineering firms has been
strengthened.
Thus it will be seen that the benefits accrued are substantial but cannot be
accurately measured with the yardstick of benefit/cost ratio.



- 17 -
IV. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1 Conclusions
Tne Project has generally been executed and completed successfully. All the
executing agencies contributed fully to achieve this success. The supervisory
consultants of course played a pivotal role. The private construction industry
however, showed weakness and did not perform effectively and neither did it
improve over the period. Their problems, limitations and constraints have been
discussed in detail in the report titled "Strengthening of Private Civil Works
Contracting Industry in Pakistan" (April, 1985) prepared by NESPAK, and it is
expected that these will be addressed during the second phase of the Project.
The Project has helped in achieving reliability and equity in irrigation water
supplies in rehabilitated channels thus supplementing agricultural production
in the affected areas. The management and O&M capabilities of PIDs and their
organizational efficiency have also improved with Project sup; tied equipment
and spares and through Technical Assistance and Training Programmes.
4.2 Recommendations
In light of experience gained from the Project the following recommendations
are made:-
4.2.1 Execution of Rehabilitation Civil Works
4.2.1.1 Preparation. Review and Clearance of Schemes
PIDs used to submit schemes for clearance throughout the year which not only
delayed the preparation of Annual Project Work Plans but also affected the
supervision efficiency of SC's staff. It is, therefore, recommended that the
months of April to June of the preceding financial year are reserved for the
submission and clearance of schemes which are to be executed during the
following year. This will streamline and accelerate the process of scheme
clearance and will also ensure that the exact estimated cost of the schemes is
established prior to preparation of Annual Work Plans in the month of July
each year.
4.2.1.2 TendeXing and Contract Packaging
During Project implementation the schemes had been split up into small
contract packages keeping in view the capacity of available contractorship in
each division. Such splitting was not conducive to the development of
contractorship and added to the problems and difficulties of contract
administration and contract supervision. Due to PlDs' policy of splitting up
of schemes into small and very small contracts, only petty contractors could
be attracted who more than often failed to complete the works in time.
In order to encourage reliable and reputable contractors to partici'oate in
rehabilitation works and also to strengthen private contracting industry it is
suggested that: (i) schemes prepared for execution should be in the quantum to



- 18 -
be awarded under a single contract. Normally, splitting of the schemes
subsequent to project preparation shouLd not be permitted. As far as
practicable, a scheme should cover a complete subsystem; (il) schemes should
be made in large workable packages for works on main/branch canals and drains.
As large packages as practicable should be prepared and should be so indicated
in the scheme; (iii) schemes costing less than Rs. 3,500,000 may t executed
on the tender documents already in use with PIDs but those above that should
use revised tender documents approved by IDA; and (iv) the existing
contractorship with PIDs is not suitable and resourceful enough to execute
works costing more than Rs. 3,500,000. PIDs should, therefore, undertake asi
exercise to register other reliable and resourceful contractors through wide
publicity in the newspapers.
4.2.1.3 Proiect Supervision
The execution of schemes was assigned to existing field organizations of PIDs.
The field officers were hampered by their routine and special assignments with
the result that the rehabilitation works suffered due to inadeqate attention
by the field staff. Consequently not only the quality of works suffered but
the completion of schemes was also delayed. It is, therefore, proposed that
the works are executed through project approach where separate circles,
divisions and sub-divisious should deal only with the rehabilitation works or
alternately the sub-divisional staff is supplemented and the staff supervising
the rehabilitation works are separated from routine assignments.
4.2.1.4 Project Coordinators' Offices
Except in Sind the Project Coordinators in the provinces held additional
assignments which adversely affected the coordination efforts essentially
required for proper implementation of the Project. It is, therefore,
recommended that full time Provincial Coordinators are posted and provided
with adequate staff to ensure more efficient coordination in future.



- 19
PA
1.  Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Tille          ,PurRose           Aggroval   Status    Comments
1. Khairpur II      Alleviation of severe    1976    Completed
(Cr. 648-PAK)    water logging and                             All had
related salinity                              covenants
2. SCARP VI         problems and provide       1977    Ongoing    regarding cost
(Cr. 754-PAK)    supplemental                                  recovery for
irrigation supplies                           the irrigation
3. SCARP Mardan         --- a                  1979    Ongoing    system
(Cr. 877-PAK)
4. On-Farm Water    Increase agric. prod.    1981    Completed
Management       by effective distrib.
(Cr. 1163-PAK)   and utilization of
irrig. water
5. Command Water    Promote irrigated          1984    Ongoing    Agreement
Management        agriculture through                           includes water
(Cr. 1487-PAK)   complementary invest-                         charges cove-
ment in physical and                          nant aiming at
institutional aspects                         full O&K cost
of water management                           recovery
6. Second            Improve reliability       1938    Ongoing    Agreement
Irrigation       and distribution of                            includes
Systems          water supplies,                                revised plan
Rehabilitation   reduce crop losses                             for removal of
(Cr. 1888-PAK)   from rain flooding,                           O&M subsidies
strengthen PIDs' O&M
capability



20 -
2.  ZProect Timetable
Date                   Date               Date
Item                     Planned                 Revised            Actual
Identification Mission                                               04/80
Preparation                                                        06/80-03/81
Appraisal Mission                                                    06/81
Credit Negotiations         02/82                                    03/82
Board Approval             04/06/82                                 05/04/82
Credit Signature                                                    06/03/82
Credit Effectiveness       09/01/82              05/17/83 1*        05/11/83
Creuit Closing             12/31/85              12/31/86 u         12/31/87 2
Project Completion         06/30/85                                 06/30/88 i
La Last of five revisions.
Lb First of two revisions.
Lc IDA agreed, as an exception, to extend the period for receipt of final
withdrawal applications to nine months beyond the closing date.
/d Refers to IDA credit.



- 21 -
Comment& (Issues raised at various stages of project cycle)
Identification
(i) Water charges. A central problem is the inadequate level of O&M funds
allocated to the PIDs and assurances will be reqoLred that progress on
this issue will be made during the course of the project. The
desirability of adjusting water charges to increase the available
resources will need to be discussed at appraisal.
(ii) Tubewell operations. The growing burden of SCARPIJ tubevell operation
has put severe pressure on the funds available for the surface
distribution and drainage system. In principle GOP has agreed to
include in the project a study to investigate ways in which the public
sector could modify or disinvest from its tubewell operations.
(iii) Conditionality. Given the desire for a straightforward, quickly
disbursing project, it is not expected that major conditionality will
be attached to project effectiveness.
Preparstion
(i) Financin . The provinces argue that, if they are not provided with
additional resources the project would be unacceptable since all it
would do would be to distort their existing priorities.
nprasal
(i) Proiect size. The proposed project would finance a "time slice" of
required and most urgent rehabilitation work to overcome the problem
of deferred maintenance. It would take about 40 years to rehabilitate
Pakistan's irrigation related systems if the project is limited to
external financing of US$50 M as provided in IDA's current lending
program. Given GOP's and GOProvirsces' budget constraints, a
significantly larger project may not be possible for this Phase-I
operation unless (a) substantial cofinancing can be arranged; (b) GOP
agrees to finance part of the project under the Federal ADP to provide
additionality to the Provincial ADPs. Thus cofinancing should be
explored (US$80 M and US$100 M would reduce the completion timeframe
to about 25 and 20 years, respectively). USAID has indicated interest
in cofinancing if they receive authority to grant external aid to
Pakistan.
Negotiations
(i) Water chargs. Bank senior management stated that assurances should
be obtained on the annual amounts, in real terms, to be provided for
O&M of the irrigation system. These amounts should be on an
increasing scale.
1 Salinity Control and Reclamation Project.



- 22 -
3.  Credit Disbursements
3a. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY83   FY84   FY85   EY      FY87   F8    F89
Appraisal Estimate
-   SDR million          1.3   10.7   30.1   35.5
-  US$ million           1.5   12.0   34.0   40.0"
-   SDR million          -      S.0   11.6   19.4   27.5   32.5   35.0
-  US$ million           -      5.3   11.8   20.4   30.4   37.0   40.3V
Actual as % of Anoraisal
-   SDR                  -     47     39      55     77     92      99
-  US$                   -     44     35      51     76     93    101
Date of Final Disbursement:  October 19, 1988
'  US$/SDR exchange rate:  1.12676.
V  US$/SDR exchange rate:  1.15143.
3b. Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Original Allocation      Final Allocation
SDR'000Q   Percent    SDR  '000   Percent
(1)  Civil Works                     32,390        91.2      30,364       86.8
(2) Supervisory Consultants
and Evaluation Program           2,220         6.3       4,626       13.2
(3)  Unallocated                        890         25-
Total                         35,500       100.0      34,9901  100.0
1   The balance of SDR 510,000 (rounded) was cancelled effective
October 19, 1988.



- 23
4.  Prolect Inmlementation
ind*cagors           Appraisal Estimate                      PCR Estimate 1/
1. Farthworks 2/ ,Canal    Drain    Total               ,Canal   Drain   Total
------ (M cu ft) -------------        ----- (M cu ft) -----
Punjab            1,502      311    1,813 (1,515) i/    n/a       n/a    1,465
Sind                755      124      879 (1,111)          n              1,043
NWFP                 52        8       60    (33)                  n         41
Baluchistan           6                 6    (72)          n , J             65
Total          2,315     443    2,758 (2,731)        2,234      380   2,614
2. Canal Rehabilitation 5/  Length (km)                         Length (ki)
Punjab                       11,144                             7,919
Sind                          2,476                             2,432
NWFP                            699                               724
Baluchistan                      85                               371
Total                     14,404                            11,446
3. Drain Rehabilitation       Lengxth (km)                      Lenath (km)
Punjab                        1,157                             1,499
Sind                          2,173                             1,470
NWFP                             76                               137
Baluchistan                       -
Total                      3,406                             3,106
1/ Based on NESPAY PCk.
2/ Including stonework.
j/ During implementation no distinction was made between earthworks relating
to canal and to drain rehabilitation.
b/ Revised targets, NESPAK Progress Report Oct.-Dec. 1987.
5/ Refers to lengths of canals within which rehabilitation was undertaken.
Comment:
The discrepancy between SAR and PCR indicators can be explained by the change
in policy which emphasized high risk areas requiring greater earthwork
quantities in those reaches.



- 24 -
5. groieot Costs and FinancirW
A;Proect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Costs  Exch Costs  Total        Costs  Exch Costs  Total
....... (US$ H) ........          ----- (US$ M)  .
Civil Works           49.9       9.7      59.6         59.5      11.3     70.8
Equipment             13.8      15.0      28.8         20.3      22.0
42.3A
Tech. Assistance       1.4       1.6       3.0         14.6      16.5
31.11k
Training               0.1       0.2       0.3          3.9       7.8     11.7
Superv. & Admin.       0.1       0.0       0.1         _5.5       -5.5
Base Cost           65.3      26.5      91.8
Physical Cont.         0.2       0.2       0.3          1.0       1.9       2.9
Price Cont.           20.5       $.4      25.9          -
Total Cost          86.0      32.1   '118.1         104.8      59.5    164.3
a Incl. US$7.6 M for equipment purchased under USAID/AC&E.
& Incl. US$2.1 M for USAID-financed "Other Costa (monitoring and evaluation,
field research and demonstration, research operating expenses).
LS Contingencies for expenditures under USAID cofinancing not yet incurred at
time of report writing.
Comments: As a result of the depreciation of the Rupee against the SDR/US$
during project implementation, additional PRs became available under
the IDA credit and USAID grant. This effect was reviewed in the
Federal Review Board Meeting of September 10, 1985, and it was
decided that additional schemes should be implemented. The project
implementation period was extended up to June 30, 1987, and finally
up to June 30, 1988. The net effect of variation in the exchange
rate was that the number of schemes implemented increased from 501
to 605 and the cost of civil works from PRs 655.9 M to PRs 1,151.0
M. Similarly, the cost of services of supervisory consultants and
of the evaluation program increased from PRs 33.0 M to PRs 90.0 1.
Cost increases in civil works are also due to a higher than
anticipated proportion of stonework; average costs of civil works
are highly sensitive to the ratio of quantity of earthwork to
stonework undertaken.



- 25 -
B. -rolect Financing
Planned (Credit Agfeement)
Total   GOP &             External Financina         X
Cost    GOProv.       im       USID       Total    ID&
-----------, -(US$ M)-----------------------
Civil Works              59.6       17.2         28.7     13.7       42.4      48
Equipment                28.8        8.6          -       20.2       20.2       0
Technical Assistance      3.0         -           1.6       1.4       3.0       53
Training                  0.3         -                     0.3       0.3        0
Supervision and Admin.   0.1         0.1          -         -                   0
Contingencies            26.3       .7.Z          9.7       9.4      19.        37
Total                118.1       33.1         40.0     45.0       85.0      34
PCR Estimate
Total    GOP &            External Financing          %
Cost     GOProv.      IDA       USAID      Total    DA
----,   ,  ,     ----(US$ M)----------------------
Civil Works               70.8      20.9       34.9        15.0      49.9     49
Equipment                 42.3        -         -         42.3       42.3       0
Technical Assistance      34.4        -         5.4        29.0      34.4      16
Training                  11.7        -         -          11.7      11.7       0
Supervision and Admin.    0.1        0.1        -           -         -         0
Other                      5.0       -                      5.0       5.0       0
Total                 164.3      21.0       40.3      103.0      143.3     25
Comments: USAID contribution to project was increased from US$45 M to US$65 M
in accordance with Project Grant Agreement signed on June 5, 1983.
An additional US$38.0 M earmarked under USAID funded Agricultural
Commodities and Equipment Agreement (AC&E) were also made available
to the project for import of earth moving and workshop equipment,
spares and hydraulic measuring and research equipment. Equipment
imported under AC&E was exempt from duties and taxes. No government
funding was therefore needed for this purpose, and GOP/GOProvinces'
share In project financing decreased accordingly.



- 26 -
6.  Project Results                     -
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal            PCR
Indicators                                       Estimate.          Estimate
Benefiting farm families (No)               700,000 to 800,000
Benefiting command area (M ac)                     9.4
Increase in per capita income (X)                5 to 20
Increase in farm employment (M m/d p.a.)            15
Incremental production (M mt) 1/
-   Cotton                                      0.10
-   Sugarcane                                   0.71
-   Rice                                        0.05
-   Wheat                                       0.267
Comments:   Sufficient data that would permit a revision of the above
appraisal estimates are not available. As indicated in Part I
(paras 6.1 and 12.3), rehabilitation work was not undertaken for
complete subsystems as originally envisaged, no baseline survey
had been made prior to project start and the agro-economic
evaluation is inconclusive.
1/ Future 'with project" less future "without project".



- 27
B.  Economic Impact
AnDraisal Estimates                    PCR Estimae
Economic Rate of Return           (X)                               (X)
SubsvsteM/Scheme                                 Subprgiect
Punjab6                                          Punjab            over 50
Bahawalpur                     65
Sargodhe             55
Sind                               59            Sind                43
Rohri                           68
NWFP                             i2              NWFP                39
Upper Swat                      24
Baluchista                          2            Baluchistan         16
Sunni Scheme                   14
Total Project                      58            Total Project     over 50
Underlying Assumptions (SAR)
1. Proiect Life and Phasing. The life of rehabilitation works would be 20
years, with project full development reached in 1988-89, four years after
completion of works.
2. Prices. For internationally traded goods, prices were derived from the
Bank's projected world market prices expressed in June 1981 currency
valhes. Local costs and locally valued benefits were expressed in border
rupees through application of conversion factors (standard, 0.9;
construction, 0.85).
3. Benefits. To assess the benefits of rehabilitation works, the project area
was divided into five sub-areas using representative sub-systems/schemes.
Incremental crop benefits were based on the assumpticn that "without the
project" the system's deteriorating condition would continue with the
acreage adversely affected by breaches increasing from 12X to 15Z of the
total canal command area by 1988. Yields and cropping intensities were
assumed to decrease by about 2X to 5X over a four-year period; "with the
project" these agricultural parameters were expected to increase in the
range of 22 to 5X over a similar build-up period. In Baluchistan, the
increased water supplies would lead to an increase in yields and cropping
intensities of about 30X and 601, respectively.
4. Economic Proiect Costs. Rehabilitation costs per subsystem/scheme were
based on preliminary PID estimates for possible schemes to be rehabilitated
under the project, and incremental Q&M costs on PIDs' and appraisal mission
estimates.



- 28 -
5. Farm Production Costs. Production costs included all incremental input
requirements. Adjustments were made in the crop production cost streams to
reflect realistically the staggered occurrence of costs and accrual of
benefits relating to farm activities.
Comments:
Because of the scattered nature of rehabilitation works, the economic rate of
return has been re-estimated only at the provincial and country level. The
time horizon is 20 years, with full development reached in project year 10
(1991-92). The assessment of benefits from rehabilitation is based on the
following assumptions: (i) the SAR estimates regarding command area remain
unchanged with about 9.4 M ac for the total, 6.46 M ac for Punjab, 2.48 M ac
for Sind, 0.34 H ac for NWFP, and 0.08 M ac for Baluchistan; (ii) cropping
intensities are those used in the SAR except for Baluchistan, where some
adjustment has been made based on the SAR for the follow-on project;
(iii) wheat, representing the largest share of irrigated crops in all
provinces, is used as a proxy in calculating incremental production;
(iv) input data are from the SAR's illustrative crop budget for wheat; (v) the
SAR yield estimates are used except in the "without project" case, in which
(as in the appraisal of the follow-on project) no decline from the "present"
level is assumed. Farmgate prices for wheat (import parity) and fertilizers
are based on the World Bank's commodity price forecasts, those for other
inputs are based on domestic financial prices, translated into border prices
by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.9. Economic project costs were
derived by converting financial costs into constant 1987-88 terms and
adjusting local components by the standard conversion factor of 0.9.
Expenditures on equipment, technical assistance and training were adjusted to
better reflect the shares attributable to rehabilitation work, and 30X were
charged to the project. The key assumptions and resulting economic costs and
benefits are given in Attachment Tables 2-5.
C. Financial Impact
(not applicable)
D. Studies
(not applicable)



29 -
7.  Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                  Subiect                  Compliance       Status
Dev. Credit Agreement
3.02 (b)   Employment of supervisory and           12-31-82    Complied with
evaluation consultants
3.05 (a)   Using criteria satisfactory to IDA                   Complied with
in the selection of canals to be
rehabilitated
3.05 (b)   Using specifications satisfactory to                 Complied with
IDA for civil works and maintaining
the integrity of the minimum designed
free-board in rehabilitated channels
3.07       Preparing a review of the first          09-01-83    Complied with
year's operation of the tender and
force account procedures used to
procure civil works and furnishing
it to IDA for comments
3.08       Organizing a Federal Coordinating       07-31-82    Complied with
Cell in the Office of Chief
Engineering Adviser, Ministry of
Water and Power
3.09       Making arrangements for monitoring       12-31-82    Complied with
and evaluation activities
3.10       Furnishing to IDA the findings          07-01-83    Complied with
and recommendations of the SCARP
Transition Study
4.01 (a)   Maintaining adequate records                         Substantially
complied with
4.01 (c)   Having project accounts audited and                  Substantially
sending audit reports to IDA not                     complied with
later than nine months after the
end of each year



- 30 -
Project Agreemnts
2.01(c)(ii)  Appointment of Provincial Project                  Complied with
Coordinators
2.01 (d)     Annually increasing the funds for                  Complied with
O&M of canals, surface drains and
flood protection bunds
3.01         Increasing water charges periodically              Partially
or making other appropriate arrange-               complied with
ments to cover an increasing
percentage of the cost of 06K of
irrigation facilities, so that
full cost is being recovered by
certain dates



-31 -
8. Use of Bank Reoaureeas
A. staff Inuts La
tY79   fYE0       f ta1  E   F8 E    FY84 E F8    fY E8        FX87   FY21   FY89    Total
Preappraisal    6.4   2S.S   10.4                                                                   42.3
Appraisal                     40.0   67.0                                                          107.0
NegottatIon                           12.9                                                          12.9
Supervision                            2.7   26.3   22.0   25.4   30.9   26.8    8.3    7.0Lk  149.4
Other            -      0.3    0.2    17    _         0- 1    -              -                       2.1
Total            6.4   25.8   SO.6   84.3   26.3   22.1   25.4   30.9   26.8    8.3    7.0    313.9
LA Staffweeks.
ak Partly estimated.
B. Missions
Performance Rating
Honth/  No. of   Staffdays   Specializations                         Types of
Miss1in                    Year   Persons  in Field/a   Renresented/b   Status/L   Trend/   Problemnsk   e
Preidentification         4/79        1           4           Ag
Identification            9-10/79    2           30         Ag. Eg
Identification 2 Lt       4/80        3         61        Ec. lEg. EEg
Preparation               9/80        1           4            Ec
Preparation 2             3-4/81      1           4           Ag
Appraisal                 5-6/81      7         192    2Ag.2IEg.EEg,Ec.LO
Appraisal follow-up       9-10/81    1            9            Ag
Negotiations follow-up   5/82         1           2            Ag
Supervision 1 (STO)       10-11/82   2            3        Ag. lEg
Supervision 2 (BTO)       1/83        2           3        Ag, IEg
Supervision 3 (PS)        3-4/83      4          33      2IEg. Ag. PO         2         1        F.M.T.0
Supervision 4 (fS)        11-12/83   2           37        IEg. PO             2        1          M.0
Supervision S (STO)       6-7/84      2           S        Ag. KEg
Supervision 6 (UTO)       10-11/84   1            7            lEg
Supervision 7 (FS)        10-11/84   2           52        lEg. PO             2        1         M.o
Supervision 8 (STO)       3/85        1           2            Ag
Supervision 9 (FS)        4-5/85      2          31        KEg. PO             2        1         4.0
Funds   MqnL.  1mnact   status
Supervision 10 (fS)       10-11/85   4           23     2Ag.IEg.PO      Ll2   3Ll       1L 2j.
Supervision 11 (FS)       4-S/86      2          30       lEg. PO       1      3        1          2
Supervision 12 (STO)      7/86        2           3       Ag. KEg
Supervision 13 (S90)      7/87       LI          LA1                    1      2Lk      1          2
Completion                S/89        2          30        Ec. KEg
LA  Most supervision missions worked on 3everal assignments but did not specify the time spent on
each. The number of staf['days therefore has been estimated, assuming in most cases that equal
time was spent on each assignment.
LI Ag - agriculturist ; Ec - economist; EEg - equipment engineer; rEg - irrigation engineer:
LO - loan officer; Po - project officer.
al 2 - moderate problems
La  1 - improving
La  F - financial; N - managerial; T - technical; 0 -- other
If  Based on revised project concept (brief dated 02/28/80).
Lg  1 - Adequate fands are provided for the project.
Lb  3   There are major deficiencies in project management. but acceptable measures are being
taken to strengthen its capacity.
/i  I - Project objectives are expected to be substantially achieved.
Li  Not available.  Action letter says project was reviewed along with ISRP-tl appraisal.
Lk 2 - Project management is capable of doing its job with only moderate problems.



PAKWSMA
IRRIGATION SYSIEKS RENAOILITATION PROJECT
P8OJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Proiect Costs by Province and Expenditure Cateaorv
PROVINCE/Expenditure Cateeorv       1982-8      1981-8      1984 8 2f5986-07 1-8-0                               lrotal
....... ... ...........................s      .........................Qs .. .............. ........ . ..
PUNJAB
- Civil Works                       20           68          154         145          121          56            564
- Equipment                          -          117           26         111           -            14           268
- Technical Assistance              S1           54           61          64           69           70           369
- Training                           13          18           20          21           22           23           III
- Superv. Ads. and Other             a            a            9                                  41 tO  J       56
Subtotal          92         265          210          351          222         174          1374
Slto
- Civil Works                       32           71           42          64           57          110           316
- Equipment                          2           34           22          96            -          80            234 
- Technical Assistance               19          20           23          24           26          26            131
- lraining                           6            1            8           8            9           9             47
- Superv. Adm. and Other            _             3            3           3            3         __ 
Subtotal          62         135           98          195           9S         229           814
UWfP
- Clvil Works                       12           17           13           6           14          14             16
- Equipment                          -           36           11           2           29           S             83
- Technical Assistance               3            3            4           4            4           4             22
- lraining                           I            1            2           2            2           2             10
- Superv. Adm. and Otber            -             I            - _-                               -_              3
Subtotal          16          58           30           IS           49          26           194
bALUCHISTAN
- Civil Works                        3           It            5          iS           19           12            65
- Equipment                          -           to            9          29            -           6             62
- Technical Assistance               -            I            1           I            I                          s
- Training                                                     _           I
- Superv. Ada. and Otber
Subtotal           3          30            15          41           20          19           134
Total          173         488          413          608          386         448          2516                       14



- 33 -
Attachment 'I
Table 2
PAKISTAN
I-RRIGATION SYSTEMS RE«AILITATION -PROJECT, CREDIT 1239-PA
Estimated Annual gropingt Intensities
(Percent)
jSAR        _    FG_R
R   toQ   w     L  W      w
Punjab                                                          105  102  108
- Bahawalpur                                   105  102  108
- Sargodha                                     124  120  128
Sind (Rhori Canal 1/)                           89   86   92    89   86   92
NWFP (Upper Swat _/)                           143  139  147   143  139  147
Baluchistan =/                                  25   24   39    45   42   59
1/ For SAR only.
'F wor basis of PCR assumptions see SAR on the Second Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project: Report No. 6991-PAK, March 8, 1988, Annex 5,
Table 1, page 2.
F - present.
W/O - future without project.
v - future with project.



- 34 -
Attachment I
Table 3
PAKISTA
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT. CREDIT 1239-PAK
Estimated Inut and Output Ouantities
(kg, pairhours, mandays per acre)
SAR                PCgR
InDutG
Wheat (Punjab, NWFP, Sind)
- Seed                                       35   35   35       35   35   35
- Nitrogen                                   16   16   16.5     16   16   16
- Phosphate                                   5    5    5.15     5    5    5
- Animal draft power                         41   41   41.8     41   41   41
- Labor                                      16   16   16.3     16   16   16
Wheat (Baluchistan)
= Seed                                       34   34   34       34   34   34
= Nitrogen                                    6    6   17        6    6   17
= Phosphate                                   -    -    -         -    -    -
- Animal draft power                         30   30   36        30   30   36
- Labor                                      10   10   12       10   10   12
Pqus
Wheat I/
- Punjab                                                   )
Bahawalpur                            635  615  655  )
. Sargodha                               595  575  615  )   595  595  615
- Sind (Rhori Canal)                        560  540  575  )
- NWFP (Upper Swat)                         520  500  535  )
- Baluchistan                               450  405  585      450  450  585
l Used as proxy in PCR.
P - present.
W/O - future without project.
U - future with project.



- 35 -
Attachment I
Table 4
PAK;IASI
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT. CREDIT 1239-PAK
Farmgate Prices Used in Economic Reevaluation
(Constant 1987-88 Rupees)
1982-83 1987-88 1994-95 2001-02
Inputs
Wheat seed 1/                             4,740    3,440    3,080    3,160
Nitrogen 1/                               9,440    7,050    9,330    8,830
Phosphate 1/                              8,110    6,510    8,370    8,640
Animal draft power 2/                         11        4        4         4
Labor 2/                                      21       25       25        25
Outouts
Wheat 1/ i/                               4,520    3,270    2,930    3,010
3 Per metric ton.
j/ Per pairhour.
j/ Per manday.
bJ Used as proxy.



- 36 -
Attachment I
Table 5
'.tuutm   PDSS  X Xt, 31 Coats
t198    1084   2In0       1986    1907   i10        mWe    t9W       1992         199  19     1994    lo"       £906   t1s?    18e   1999    20Q 2082-z
1111whistoa
ta"oet al tlh /                       -        t       6       12       1?      2        16 6    ?S       ?7       14      le       38       3       3        3       U        le       39        39
lnust_t Aato                          4       1t       e       2        r        1,       -          -       -        -        -     t        *       *        -
iaataln ca                .        . -           -       -        -        -              0 t              0        6        0       0                i 4      4        6       0        * 
t1ggvrtu1, atu ta                     -        0       2        4        6               1        12     1i       It       1t       10       it      14       14       le      14       id        1t
idtI trnta l fttts                   .4      -17       -5     -20       4         4      t1       1'       1s      14       1d      10       12        '       6t      14      I?       I?         2'
lammi  bRt  of Rturn * la
t8 gm F_ nite hou
1umta1 ttits                          -        '      2t       42       47e     40       7        78 .6?5         7?        76      76       6       7. ?     717     77        8       78        78
t _ t CtWs                           t18      34     X2        11       25      1 0.-13                                                       4 -     *                   e  2  -
I    n tOO    tll cats-                        -       -                 -       -        ?        ?       ? ?  ?                    ?        ?       ?        ?        ?       I 
IrvobAd Paolan Coet.                  -        2        0      10       13      14       20       22      2!       23      23       2        21      2        21      23       23   33            21
Wt  t      tuRtbditt                -18      -V2       -1      21        7-      20      50       49     f4        46       46      3        42     4f       3??      4        4?       4t        4e
Ceml. Ret of ReI r  0  9
p-Jet
lnemta   toitS                        -       45     197      429      07      841    til    1131   1080    10 W  1             IO7   1086    1Ct5    IOI  12    10        1106    111J        1115
l .t_tC tcb                          52      151     212      222      1        8tJ°.. -                                     -      40               34        -       4        -        -
lau tu      Ces           .           -        -       -        -        -       -.      50       S       5t       58      50       so       so      so       so      5o       5o       St        so
laott  Pro*gt1UD c tg                 -       12      4       1tO5   168       224       25      310      33w   336       316      325      334     334      334     134      m       333   m
Ret l ntl    itb                    -59    -118      -63      102      201      M28     ?        7t2     6tt      702       1      461      69t 2   6?7      ?t    711        M        73Q       732
a  t    fl  Iwe * 74
!mttaI         tlt,                   -       25      nI      IV       203     26       37       m3       m0      304     ?.4      in      393      394      3N      3sa      4Ql    403         4Q4
Iaut a    int  ts                    56      1W.      74      11                              -        -            -                         4      27        -      20        -        -
Iar     diulOt-.-.                                      -       .-.                      3        ?3      S3       3        . 3333  33  21  2  3     33       23      33       33       ?3        33
tmNaa_    l PVe 3C Cstt Ws                            24       41       6)      75      101      117     t2e      L2l     12      t1        128    1in       120      2       120      12e       120
VA  tn       tallnmfta              -5t      -0        -2       8       74       57     23       243     226      232      211     222      22t     206      232      21'    240       242       24
Ec_aml Rat at Rt   * 431
Ttl Paeci
I    UW tih ts                        -       VD     322      642     875    1122    136 t144t    ISr    1sn             1524    1293   I29        I6    163    ltl          1023    1633       1636
i _ etCoata                         1W       3QS     211      Pt       m       212        -        -       -                 I      0       2?      ?1        '      2!        -
hc.rnmtW  ml  cuts                    -     .         .        .         .        .       6      et       9        06      *t       0t      *6       0$       90      *6       *6        t         t6
NOOMtal P.aI dt  CO                   -       21      90      160      24'  D           41'    473       400      S4r     54       SC2     5        501    521        W.      500     2Q5 5  0Q
Pot l n       i  WIt  -t                                                                1r 21  - n  36  61  1052    172    -90  92  004  2  971     928       9       0      -120    1'         10'.,
lemic Rat of RAe  W
Is II mrin ftr floral waus rndie in ccid  vs. aft



Attacbment II
TEk; SI345?                           -37 -                        Page I of 2
Gam : POWER
-4                                             D. G. Nt W.II-12(4)/84-Vol.9.
ff~P   rom: Maj. Gen. (Retd.)                          (^^emtllent tit Pakktan
{ Wj        ~~~Agha Manzoor Rauf               MlIlNllillt OF ViATER ANIl) PO RFK
Add   SecvWa iWaU                1                 tw)r.
SUBJECT: IRRIGATION SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1239-PAK).
My dear /Y 1bo7OA9 )
Kindly refer to your letter dated 12th NMarch, 1990 on
the subject cited above.  We agree with the report.  Only two
comments, given in paras below, are offered.
2.         We need to have a more efficient and cost effective
system for maintaining our canals and surface drains. In the
ongoing Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project-l1 this aspect needs
to be studied and varlous alternatives tried oui.
3.        Deferred  maintenance of our canals/drains is being
carried out under the Irrigation System  Rehabilitation Project-1l.
Some provisons have been kept in ft for lining of problematic smaU
channels.  The loan investment on this project could be fi;rther
jused if there is a developmental component in it. The possibility
of lining of minors and distributaries of 30 cusecs capacity and less,
to the extent possible, may be considered.
4.        As regards Part lI of the PCR, it was issued by the
Supervisory Consultants after approval of this Ministry. All of our
(Contd .... P/2. )



- 38 -                        Attacment II
Page 2 of 2
observations already stands incorporated therein. The last sentence
under para 1.3. "Supervisory Consultants" on Pege 13 may read as
under:-
"The services rendered by SC luive boeei
satisfactory and they carried out their
responsibilities well."
With regards,
Yours   J4AWtf}-fr
Mr. Graham Donalson,
Chief, Division I,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.



