Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3270-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 14, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$     =  Rs 11.0
Rs 1    =  US$0.0909
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Ac      -    Acre
ACOP    -    Alluvial Canal Observation Project
cca     -    Canal Command Area
ctf     -    cubic feet
GOP     -    Government of Pakistan
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
Km      -    kilometer
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
M       -    Million
m       -    meter
PIDs    -    Provincial Irrigation Departments
USAID   -    US Agency for International Development
WAPDA   -    Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  SDR 35.5 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The project would rehabilitate badly deteriorated
parts of the surface irrigation and drainage
system in Pakistan and provide equipment and other
facilities to improve operation and maintenance.
The objectives of the proposed project are to
increase agricultural production by providing a more
reliable irrigation water supply and reducing crop
losses resulting from flooding; provide a more
equitable irrigation water supply to all farmers by
increasing deliveries to watercourses in the tail
reaches of minors and distributaries through a
program of silt removal in these reaches; strengthen.
Provincial Departments of Irrigation's operation
and maintenance programs to improve the efficiency
of the system and assure the continued maintenance
of installed facilities; and serve as a model
for a larger and continuing program of a similar
nature. The Credit would finance civil works,
improvement of workshops and technical assistance.
The project does not face any major risks.
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
------ ----- US$  -   …
Civil Works                       49.9        9.7         59.6
Equipment                         13.8        15.0        28.8
Technical Assistance               1.4         1.6         3.0
Training                           0.1        0.2          0.3
Supervision and Administration   0.1          0.0          0.1
Base Cost                       65.3       26.5         91.8
Physical Contingencies             0.2        0.2          0.3
Price Contingencies               20.5        5.4         25.9
Total Cost                      86.0       32.1        118.1
Duties and Taxes                  10.8        -           10.8
Total Cost Net of
Duties and Taxes             75.2        32.1        107.3
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
--US$ million------
Federal and Provincial Governments    33.1           -          33.1
IDA                                     24.9        15.1        40.0
USAID                                   28.0        17.0        45.0
Total                              86.0        32.1      118.1
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83     FY84      FY85     FY86
------------US$ million--------
Annual                             1.5      10.5     22.0       6.0
Cumulative                         1.5     12.0      34.0      40.0
Rate of Return:       Over 50%.
Appraisal Report:    No. 3717-PAK, dated April 9, 1982.
Map:                  IBRD 15911R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR AN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 35.5 million
(US$40 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an irriga-
tion systems rehabilitation project.  The United States Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID) is expected to participate in the financing of
the project with a loan of US$45 million with 40 years' maturity at 2%
interest during the 10-year grace period and 3% interest thereafter.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments and Prospects"
(No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 20, 1981.
3.      The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY81 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3% p.a.,
and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11%
p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 4.2% p.a. and in
industry by 8.1% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the
economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible. Following a number of other favorable developments, including
the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a
short-term debt rescheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the
Pakistan Consortium and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and
the balance of payments are under reasonable control and the short-term
economic outlook has considerably improved.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakis-
tan's exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops,
rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the Mliddle East.
Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also contributed
significantly to the recovery.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report No. P-3236-PAK (Fourth Telecommunications Project)
dated March 15, 1982.



-2-
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices;
and efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and
timely delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the
fertilizer subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by
separating it from the development budget for agriculture in order to
protect allocations for other priority agricultural projects and programs.
An Agricultural Prices Commission has been set up to make recommendations
on appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
6.      In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made
in improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called
training and visit system. Reforms have been initiated to the agricultural
research system in line with the findings of a USAID/World Bank study. The
Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural policy
based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated agriculture
which emphasizes the need to improve the effic:[ency of the water delivery
system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better scheduling
of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the private
sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell development
in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricul-
tural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened. These initia-
tives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of
low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have been made during the past four years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early
and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which will improve the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a
sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale private investment
projects. There is also evidence of increased interest by investors in



-3-
larger projects, especially in the cement, chemicals and fertilizer subsec-
tors.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises.  In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BINI) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
V           boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector. In addition to the
denationalizations mentioned earlier, further public disinvestment is being
considered on a case-by-case basis.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past four years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues.
Nevertheless, the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as
rapidly as revenues. The Government's policies of encouraging production
and exports through subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political
and social constraints to making substantial price adjustments on a number
of items of mass consumption, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service,
following the expiration at the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief
arrangement with member countries of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased
defense spending contributed to the growth in non-development expenditures.
In addition, commitments under the ongoing public investment program and
higher subsidies for agriculture led to further increases in development
spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the increased revenues, the over-
all budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and the bank-financed deficit
around 3-4% of GNP.
10.     The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 and
FY81. Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in
FY79, rose by an average of 22% p.a. during the two years as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases announced in
the FY80 and FY81 budgets, and intensified efforts to inprove tax collec-
tions. Although political developments outside Pakistan's borders led to
unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on total spending;
the growth of public expenditures was limited to 11% p.a. Both development
and administrative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies other than
those on farm inputs were held to the previous year's level in nominal
terms. These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some



-4-
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During
FY80 and FY81, the overall budget deficit averaged 5% of GNP and bank
financed budget deficit of 1.6% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
11.     Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 mil-
lion in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, hlave also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases have, however, been partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$947 million or 3.1% of
GNP in FY81, compared to USS1,050 million or neiarly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits had presented considerable
difficulties to the Government during the past few years, since
program-type assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in the
mid-1970s) as well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined
through FY79. However, a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a
marginal increase in net long-term capital infLows and substantial extraor-
dinary receipts from OPEC countries eased the external financing problem in
the second half of FY80 and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to
about US$750 million at the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks'
imports.
12.     A number of favorable developments substantially improved the
balance of payments situation in FY81.  These included the conclusion of an
Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in November 1980; a posi-
tive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of
debt service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an
18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. In addition, both merchandise
exports and migrant remittances expanded by over 20%. As a consequence of
improved performance on both current account and capital account, foreign
exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,058 million during
the year; the latter is the equivalent of aboult two months worth of import
of goods and services.
13.     The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially
structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements,
further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limit-
ing economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the



-5.-
factors lying behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental
£           factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, output growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer.  While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on
yields at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity
is now more widely recognized in the Government and a beginning has been
made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to
strengthen research, extension, water management and other programs in the
agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer
subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in
output and consumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain well below those
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets, while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by
the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises. Although there
have been some recent improvements in the output and profitability of
public enterprises, these improvements need to be carried further through
appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing, improve performance
criteria and incentives to managers and to further rationalize the sector.
To assist and further encourage the recovery in private investment and to
maintain the increased momentum in the industrial sector will require,
among other things, an adequate supply of local and foreign financing, both
A            for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provision of neces-
sary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it
is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system supports
those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more
analysis is needed to determine levels of effective protection for for-
mulating an appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The
recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by improvements in
labor-management relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the
textile industry and generally to increase exports.



-6-
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow; and the
benefits of Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas sector are
yet to be realized. A number of issues relating to such matters as energy
planning, pricing and organization will need to be addressed in order to
realize this potential.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the com-
modity-producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadeqtuate standards. However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services remain comparably low and undue emphasis has been given to
higher education and urban health facilities. High priority needs to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social
service expenditure but also to its redirectiion to serve the wider inter-
ests of the population and the economy. While the substantial migration
from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some extent
relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this clearly
cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the long
run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem; a
new population program has been adopted and is in the initial stages of
implementation.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental improvement is required iLn the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings. At 13% of GNP, national
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the public sector and



-l-
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through appropriate
price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential imports.
While the Government has made several price increase in the recent past,
further adjustments will directly reduce the budgetary burden of subsidies.
Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve revenues
through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate increases (for
example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation water charges)
are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     As described above, Pakistan's policies and economic performance
have improved considerably over the past several years. Improvements in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance. While Bank long-term forecasts show that foreign borrowing on
commercial as well as concessional terms would be necessary to support
economic growth of 5-6% p.a., recent policy initiatives have substantially
improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a
blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of FY80, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the
undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$5 billion was
owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC and US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1980, The Bank Group's share in Pakis-
tan's external public indebtedness was 13% and in external debt service was
11%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 12% in 1981,
should remain roughly constant through 1985 and, even assuming substantial
commercial borrowing, should rise only slowly thereafter to about 17.5% in
1990.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US'$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education. Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly; to
support the expansioni of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basiic needs in the areas of rural end urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting
services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and water-logging; and providing essential facilities including
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important pur-
pose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/crecdits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), and two credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 14 Pakistan enterprises
for a total of US$73.6 million, of which US$63.9 million was by way of
loans and US$9.7 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex
II). About US$38.6 nmillion remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted
by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in tex-
tiles, two in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a
shareholder in PICIC.



-9-
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthen-
ing the institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and
Federal and Provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Tndus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a
petroleum development project and begin to play an important role in
strengthening the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are
assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domes-
tic energy resources. A second water supply project in Lahore is currently
under implementation. Five IDA credits for education, totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 1, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to government procedures for
project approval, which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in
appointment of consultants. The Government has recently increased the
rates charged by some public utilities to improve their financial position.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
structural adjustment, urban development, water supply, oil and gas
development, and minor irrigation and agricultural development in Baluchis-
tan. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the
reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange
component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is jus-
tified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-10-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
31.     Agriculture is the single largest sector in Pakistan's economy.  It
accounts for about 30% of the GDP, employs about 55% of the total labor
force of 23 M and provides about 70% of the nation's export earnings.  In
FY80, agricultural exports exceeded by over US$550 M the value of agricul-
ture-related imports of fertilizer, pesticides, machinery, wheat, edible
oil, tea, etc.
32.     Agricultural production grew substantially in the late 1960s,
averaging about 6% per year. This growth slowed to little over 2% annually
in the early to mid-1970s. A series of adverse developments contributed to
this disappointing performance, including political turnoil in the early
1970s and a succession of floods and droughts during the period 1973-76.
Weaknesses in agricultural support services and worsening in the terms of
trade for agricultural products were contributing factors. Another major
factor preventing higher agricultural production has been the uncertainty
of irrigation water supplies, coupled with inefficiencies in the irrigation
system.
33.     During the last three decades, GOP's agricultural policies stressed
large water sector projects (Tarbela and Mangla Dams, link canals, and
salinity control and drainage projects) and food and input subsidies (on
wheat, edible oil, tubewells, water charges, fertilizer and pesticides).
Some essential requirements for agricultural production such as
field-oriented research, training and extension programs, water management,
and operation and maintenance of the existing irrigation system were
neglected. This unbalanced approach, even though accompanied by substan-
tial investments, was a major factor in retarding agricultural growth
during the late 1960s to mid-1970s.
34.     During the past three years GOP has been modifying its agricultural
policies by reducing subsidies, encouraging the investment of the private
sector in areas such as input distribution, increasing funding for agricul-
tural extension and research services and improving water management at the
farm level. GOP has also become increasingly aware of the deterioration of
the existing irrigation infrastructure and its rehabilitation now has a
high priority.



-1_
The Irrigation System
35.     Irrigation is undertaken on about 75% of the cropped area, which
generates about 90% of the nation's total agricultural production.
Primarily because of inadequate funding for maintenance in the past, the
irrigation system is now in a seriously deteriorated condition.
36.     The Indus Irrigation System (34.5 M ac cca) is the largest con-
tiguous irrigation system in the world.  It comprises the Indus River and
its major tributaries, three major storage reservoirs, 19 bar-
rages/headworks, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands and some 89,000 water-
courses. The total length of the canal system is about 58,500 km with
watercourses, farm channels and field ditches running another 1.6 M km.
37.     Generally, the design criteria of the canal system have evolved to
fit the availability of water supplies in the rivers; meet the objective of
bringing to maturity the largest possible acreage of crops with the minimum
consumption of water; and operate at a low cost and with a limited number
of technical staff. This design resulted in low cropping intensities and
low yields. With the urgent demand to increase crop production to meet the
domestic requirements of a rapidly increasing population and to assist the
balance of payments through higher exports of agricultural commodities,
flows in excess of designed capacities are now being carried in many of the
canals, especially in Sind Province. This has placed great stress on the
system and has increased significantly the risk of failure. These larger
flows have been made possible by an improved system of barrages and the
storage in Mangla and Tarbela reservoirs.
38.     There are about 5.5 M ac of irrigated land outside the Indus Basin.
This area, most of which is supplied by private irrigation systems, is in
widely scattered parcels and receives water supply from various sources
such as open wells, tubewells, lift pumps, springs and smaller diversion
schemes. Most of the minor civil canals and lift irrigation schemes are
operated by Provincial Irrigation Departments and are located in North West
Frontier Province (NWFP) (110,000 ac cca) and Baluchistan (220,000 ac cca).
Water supply available for such schemes is extremely variable by location
and by season. Because of the scattered nature of these schemes, operation
and maintenance (O&M) are more costly and pose a more difficult problem as
evidenced by the highly deteriorated state of these facilities, some of
which are inoperable at the present time.
Drainage Facilities
39.     The drainage needs in the irrigated areas of Pakistan comprise both
surface and subsurface facilities. Extensive areas in Punjab, NWFP and
Sind are subject to frequent rainstorm flooding. Over the years a large
network of surface drains has been constructed, which provides some relief
from rainflooding. Except for rice producing areas where the water table



-12-
is less than five feet, GOP has attempted to meet the subsurface drainage
needs through salinity control and reclamation projects (SCARPs) plus a
limited tile drainage program where applicable. Under the SCARPs, the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) has installed about 11,000
public tubewells and individual farmers have installed over 160,000
tubewells which contribute in varying degrees to controlling the water
table.
Flood Protection Facilities
40.     Extensive flood losses in Pakistan occur from three major causes
of floods: rain flooding, hill torrents, and major rivers. The flat
topography and lack of a well developed natural drainage system in the
Indus Plain create a surface drainage problem, which has been compounded by
the construction of roads and other structures that obstruct natural
drainage flows. A severe and largely intractable flood problem is caused
by hill torrents on intermittent streams that drain hilly or foothill areas
in zones of low annual rainfall. Major river flooding associated with the
Indus River and tributaries represents the greatest flood hazard to Pakis-
tan. To reduce major river flood damage, an extensive bund system has been
installed along the Lower Indus River in Sind. In Punjab and NWFP, bunds
have been constructed at high hazard locations; and in association with
barrages. The total length of front-line buncls along the major rivers is
about 4200 km.
Current Problems
41.     Canals.  Because of the increasing demands for irrigation water,
many of the canals are carrying quantities of water well in excess of their
design capacities and beyond the limits of safe operation. Most canals are
now operating with inadequate or no freeboard, berms have been eroded away,
operating road widths are inadequate, outside embankments have
deteriorated, and sedimentation has severely reduced the capacity of many
minors and distributaries. Canals breach on many occasions. Sedimentation
of the distributaries and minors results in less than planned deliveries to
watercourses located in lower reaches, whereas the higher head of water
results in additional water supplied to watercourses in the upper reaches.
42.     Public Tubewells.  Public tubewells, which are designed principally
to improve drainage, have been operated at a low level of installed
capacity because of inadequate operating budgets to finance increasing
energy and other costs. There is a high incidence of mechanical failures.
43.     Surface Drainage.  The older surface dtrains were designed with
rule-of-thumb criteria ranging from one to four cusecs per square mile.
This inadequate capacity has been further aggravated by such man-made
obstructions as roads, railways and canals. Blecause of inadequate main-
tenance, most of these drains have become clogrged with sediment and weeds.



-13-
44.     Flood Protection Bunds.  Failure of flood protection bunds has
invariably been associated with breaching rather than overtopping.
Breaches are a direct result of inadequate maintenance associated with rain
cuts, wave wash, stream erosion, damage caused by vehicular or animal
traffic, and holes made by burrowing animals and tree roots.
Operation and Maintenance
45.     Inadequate funding for Operation and Maintenance (O&M), which is a
provincial government responsibility, has been the major cause for the
accumulation of deferred maintenance and resulting problems affecting the
irrigation facilities. GOP made a noteworthy start to improve the situa-
tion by providing in FY82, for the first time, Rs 100 M to Punjab and Rs 50
M to Sind from federal budget resources to supplement the O&M budget of the
Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs). To increase their own available
resources for O&M, all four provinces have increased water charges by 75%
in the past four years. Efforts are also being made to improve the collec-
tion rate of water charges.
46.     Even though the major constraint to an effective O&M program is
funding, there is also a need to improve record keeping, advance program
planning, independent inspection and review, and better utilization of
staff and equipment. O&M manuals are old and do not reflect recent changes
in the system and opportunities to utilize new technologies.
47.     The traditional method of executing works is either by earth-moving
equipment, maintained and operated by PIDs' Mechanical Circles, or by labor
intensive methods by small private contractors. Equipment fleets are
composed almost exclusively of heavy machinery working in ad hoc groups
formed to suit the size of the works and time allocated.  The quality of
equipment work is generally satisfactory, although the compaction of
embankment is limited to that provided by movement of equipment with little
use of compactors. The quality of labor intensive earthwork is generally
substandard.
48.     The PIDs' equipment fleets have improved considerably in recent
years through acquisitions under earlier IDA projects (Cr. 466 and 683-PAK)
and other purchases.  However, these fleets have substantial deficiencies
in compaction equipment, equipment mai-ntenance units and transport,
medium-sized earth-moving machines, miscellaneous equipment required for
improved quality and efficiency of labor-intensive methods, agricultural
type tractors with attachments for small jobs, specialized maintenance
equipment, concrete mixers, mobile lighting and communication equipment.
Specialized equipment, such as small draglines and dredgers, are also
needed for removal of sediment from canals. Equipment required for
improved soil compaction by labor-intensive methods is normally beyond the



-14-
financial resources of petty contractors. Anoither area of equipment need
is the replacement of items nearing the end of or past their economic life.
49.     The PIDs' workshops and stores are generally old and have mostly
antiquated machine tools. Additional machine tools are needed to service
modern earth-moving equipment and vehicles. Some workshop buildings are
inadequate and are in need of substantial repairs. Baluchistan and NWFP
require new workshops to service their increasing and far-ranging equipment
fleets.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.     The project was appraised in June/July 1981.  Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. during March 1982; the Pakistan Delegation was led
by Mr. A. Wahab F. Sheikh, Secretary, Water and Power, Government of Pakis-
tan. A report entitled "Pakistan: Staff Appraisal Report - Irrigation
Systems Rehabilitation Project" (Report No. 3117-PAK, dated April 9, 1982)
is being circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet
is attached as Annex III.
Objectives and Apprcach
51.     The project would finance a three-year (FY83-85) time-slice of an
accelerated rehabilitation program, which would be implemented in all four
Provinces of Pakistan. It would provide for rehabilitating selected sur-
face irrigation and surface drainage systems that have badly deteriorated
because of deferred maintenance. The project has the following objectives:
(a) increasing agricultural production by provriding a more reliable irriga-
tion water supply and reducing crop losses resulting from flooding; (b)
providing a more equitable irrigation water supply to all farmers by
increasing deliveries to watercourses in the tail reaches of minors and
distributaries through a program of silt removal in these reaches; (c)
strengthening the capability of the PIDs' O&M programs, thus assuring
efficient maintenance of installed facilities; and (d) serving as a model
for a larger and continuing program of a simi:Lar nature.
Project Description
52.     The project would consist of:  (a) civil works required for system
rehabilitation; (b) improvement of workshops and warehouse facilities; (c)
equipment for the PIDs; (d) technical assistance in the form of local
supervisory consultants and expatriate specialists; (e) training of PID's
personnel; and (f) coordination at the Federal level.



-15-
Civil Works
53.     System Rehabilitation.  Canal rehabilitation under the project
would be limited generally to minors, distributaries and branches, with the
main canals, which are in less urgent need of work, being rehabilitated
only in exceptional cases and with IDA's concurrence. The project would
provide required earthwork and stone pitching for rehabilitation of about
14,000 km of canals and 3,500 km of surface drains as well as repair of
hydraulic structures.  In the case of rehabilitation schemes within the
Indus Basin system, the works would be limited to restoring present operat-
ing or design capacities, whichever is greater. The design and construc-
tion of rehabilitated schemes would be in line with specifications satis-
factory to IDA and the integrity of the minimum designed free board in the
rehabilitated canals would be maintained (Section 3.05(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Provincial specifications for earthwork
compaction would be enforced.
54.     In planning and carrying out the rehabilitation program, PIDs would
exercise care to assure the rehabilitation of complete systems or subsys-
tems during the project period. The following criteria would be used in
identifying priorities for rehabilitating schemes in the Indus system: (a)
subsystems of canals (consisting of branches, distributaries, minors and
structures) that have inequitable deliveries because of large sediment
deposits in minors and distributaries, that are located in areas of
high-cropping intensities and higher value crops and need urgent
rehabilitation because of high risk of canal breach (for example, canals
that are operating with little freeboard, weak banks and dowels, weak or no
berms, inadequate road width and outer slope, eroded inner slopes and
silted bottoms); (b) subsystems of canals in which farmers, under PID
supervision, would donate labor for removing silt from the distributaries
and minors; and (c) surface drains that are located in highly developed
agricultural areas, have lost most of their water carrying capacity through
sediment deposition and cannot remove the excessive water from rainstorm
and irrigation effluents at a desired rate. The maximum investment cost
per ac (June 1981 prices) for rehabilitating the Indus system schemes would
generally not exceed Rs 175 in Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan, and Rs 200
in NWFP. These investment costs reflect the anticipated benefits in each
province. Schemes not within these per ac costs would be rehabilitated
only following consultation with IDA, and if an economic analysis by the
PID showed an economic rate of return greater than 15%.
55.     Canal systems or subsystems outside the Indus system to be
rehabilitated under the project would meet the following criteria: (a) the
commanded area would not be less than 250 ac; (b) the scheme would benefit
at least 25 farm families; (c) dependable and available storage in supply
reservoir should not be less than 2.5 ac/ft per cropped ac, while the
minimum flow from supplying streams should provide a minimum of one cusec
during the period of critical crop water requirement for each 125 cropped



-16-
ac; and (d) rehabilitation costs for existing commanded area should not
exceed Rs 700 per ac and for incremental commanded areas should not exceed
Rs 2,000 per ac.  Schernes not meeting the water criteria and maximum per-
missible rehabilitation cost per ac specified above could be included in
the project, following consultation with IDA, if an economic analysis by
the PID showed an economic rate of return greater than 15%. The selection
of schemes for the rehabilitation programs would be based on criteria
satisfactory to IDA ancd the selected schemes would be included in the
Provincial Annual Development Program. The list of such schemes would be
submitted to IDA for review and concurrence (Section 2.06 of the draft
Project Agreements).
56.     Workshops and Warehouse Facilities.  The project would provide for
repairs and additions to the Jamshoro and Kotri workshops in Sind, and to
the Peshawar workshop in NWFP. In addition, the project would provide for
three new small workshops located in D.I. Khan in NWFP and Quetta and Sibi
in Baluchistan.
Equipment
57.     The PIDs' equipment fleets are not properly balanced for the type
of work required. These fleets are practically clevoid of light and miscel-
laneous equipment for medium-size jobs, removal of sediment from operating
canals and for improving the efficiency and quality of labor-intensive
operations. In additicon, replacements are urgently needed for equipment
which is at or nearing the end of its economic life. The project would
provide such equipment as well as spare parts for existing and new equip-
ment.
Technical Assistance
58.     To strengthen implementation capacity and improve supervision, the
project would provide the following technical assistance: (a) expatriate
specialists in warehouse operation and in equipment preventive maintenance
and repair (about 36 man/months at about US$10,000 per m/m including con-
sulting firm's overhead, housing and travel); (b) two O&M expatriate
specialists to strengthen PIDs' programs and procedures (about 66
man/months at about US$10,000 per m/m); (c) local supervisory consultants
(about 594 man/months at about US$1500 per m/m) to assist the Federal
Coordination Cell in the Ministry of Water and Pc,wer (see paragraph 60
below) and PIDs in monitoring project progress and quality of work,
procurement of equipment, budgeting control, processing reimbursement
applications and preparing reports and annual work programs; and (d) a
qualified local organization to carry out an independent evaluation of the
project and assist PIDs in monitoring it (paragraph 73 below). GOP would
employ suitably qualified consultants for the above assignments on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with IDA guidelines
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Appointment



-17-
of the supervisory consultants would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Training
59.     The project would provide:  (a) about 25 study tours to both tech-
nically advanced and developing countries that have comparable irrigation,
surface drainage and flood protection facilities; (b) in-country and
on-the-job annual training on O&M programs and procedures for about 900
personnel with the rank of Assistant Engineer and above; and (c) in-country
and on-the-job training for staff with equipment workshop and warehouse
responsibilities.
Supervision and Administration
60.     The project would provide funds for staffing of a Federal Coor-
dinating Cell under the direct supervision of the Chief Engineering Advisor
in the Office of the Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Water and Power.
Organization and Implementation
61.     The Federal Ministry of Water and Power would be responsible for
project coordination between the Ministry and each of the PIDs, as well as
among the PIDs. The Federal Coordinating Cell would ensure the effective
implementation, coordination and supervision of the project. This Cell
would be headed by a senior officer designated as Project Coordinator, who
would report directly to the Chief Engineering Advisor and would be
assisted by an Accountant, appropriate support staff and supervisory con-
sultants (paragraph 58). The Cell's major responsibilities would be
general supervision of project activities; preparing ICB consolidated
tender documents and evaluating related bids; reviewing work plans to
determine consistency with project targets and implementation schedule and
preparing consolidated annual project work plans for submission to IDA;
reviewing IDA reimbursement applications as prepared by PIDs and submitting
them to IDA; reviewing PIDs' quarterly and annual progress reports and
preparing consolidated project reports for submission to IDA within 60 days
of the end of each reporting period; preparing the Project Completion
Report within six months of the completion date of the project; and review-
ing PIDs' accounts, maintaining consolidated accounts for the project and
arranging for required audit.
62.     PIDs would be responsible for implementing the project.  Their
responsibilities would mainly include: selecting schemes to be
rehabilitated based upon agreed criteria; preparing plans and detailed
design for schemes to be rehabilitated in line with agreed specifications;
executing required civil works and project facilities; procuring equipment,
spare parts and machine tools, with all ICB procured items based upon the
Federal Coordinating Cell's bid evaluation; operating and maintaining the



-18-
irrigation systems; monitoring project progress and maintaining separate
accounts for the project; certifying quantity and quality of completed
project work; preparing IDA reimbursement applications with the assistance
of the supervisory consultants; preparing quarterly and annual progress
reports and submitting them to the Federal CoordiLnating Cell; and preparing
an annual provincial project work plan.
63.     Each PID is headed by a Secretary.  He is assisted by the
secretariat staff in his department and a number of Chief Engineers who
supervise field operations in the various Regions. Regional commands are
further subdivided into Circles, Divisions, Sub-Divisions and Sections
under the respective jurisdictions of Superintending Engineers, Executive
Engineers, Assistant Engineers and Sub-Engineers.  Generally, the Division
or Sub-Divisional Officer in charge of a canal is entrusted with the O&M of
drains and flood protection works within his jurisdiction.
64.     To facilitate project implementation, each PID vTould designate a
Chief Engineer as the Provincial Project Coordinator. This officer would
monitor project progress within the Department, assist the Secretary of the
PID in carrying out responsibilities, and coordinate PIT) activities with
the Federal Coordinating Cell.
Project Cost
65.     Total project cost for the three-year implementation period (July
1982 to June 1985) is estimated at about US$118.1 M equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of about US$32.1 M or 27% of total cost. This
estimate includes about US$10.8 M in taxes and duties. Physical contingen-
cies are assumed to be about 10% of technical assistance, equipment and
training. No physical contingencies have been included for civil works,
because of the highly divisible nature of the project.
Financing
66.     The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 35 M (US$40 M) would finance about
47% of the foreign exchange cost and about 33% of the local cost, or about
37% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties. It is expected that
the US Agency for International Development (USAID) would provide an addi-
tional US$45 million which would fund 53% of the foreign exchange cost and
about 37% of the local cost, or an additional 42% of the net total project
cost. The fulfillment of all conditions precedent: to the effectiveness of
the USAID funding would be an additional condition of IDA credit effective-
ness (Section 6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). GOP and
GOProvinces would finance the remaining US$33.1 M equivalent, including



-19-
taxes and duties, from their budgetary resources. Approval of the PC-i 1/
by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) would
be a further condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
67.     Procurement for civil works would be carried out by the PIDs.
Because civil works would be seasonal and scattered over a wide area,
international competitive bidding (ICB) would not be practical. Therefore,
the civil works would be carried out through:  (a) local competitive bid-
ding (LCB) by private contractors for about 65% of the earthwork, of which
an estimated 90% would be by labor-intensive methods and about 10% by
equipment working separately or in combination with labor; (b) force
account using PIDs' equipment for about 35% of the earthwork; (c) force
account for repair and replacement of hydraulic structures; and (d) LCB for
construction of workshop facilities. LCB would follow provincial proce-
dures, which are satisfactory to IDA. LCB contract documents exceeding Rs
2 M would be sent to IDA for prior review.
68.     There is need to encourage and strengthen the private contracting
industry in Pakistan. During the first year of project implementation,
about 10% of the earthwork requiring equipment, with an estimated cost of
about Rs 8 M, would be tendered using LCB procedures. To bid for these
tenders, a contractor would be required to have equipment under his control
that could complete at least 25% of the earthwork as scheduled. The con-
tractor would then be able to rent the additional required equipment from
PIDs following existing procedures. The Federal Coordinating Cell,
assisted by the supervisory consultants, would review the first year's
operation of this program and prepare a report by September 1, 1983 of
their findings and recommendations for review and comment by IDA (Section
3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement).
69.     Procurement of equipment and spares, which would be financed by
USAID, would follow USAID procedures. The Federal Coordinating Cell would
liaise with PIDs to ensure that by June 1, 1982, specifications would be
prepared and consolidated for project related equipment and machine tools.
These specifications would then be made available to USAID for its con-
sideration. To facilitate the orderly procurement of spares, and to mini-
mize the possibility of over or under- ordering of some items, major spare
orders would be placed in a minimum of three annual and approximately equal
lots. Bidders on equipment would include a suggested list of spares
required for the first two years of equipment operation.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for GOP approval procedures.



-20-
Disbursements
70.     Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be made for:  (a) 70% of the
cost of civil works on schemes designated for IDA financing; and (b) 100%
of the cost of supervisory consultants and evaluation program. Disburse-
ments of (b) would be made against full documentation and disbursement of
(a) against statements of expenditures for all force account and completed
contracts below Rs 300,000. For contracts of Rs 300,000 or more, full
documentation would be required. PIDs assisted by the supervisory consult-
ants would be responsible for the initial preparation of IDA reimbursement
applications which would be submitted to IDA through the Federal Coordinat-
ing Cell. The Cell would maintain consolidated budget control for the
project. It is anticipated that final disbursements would be made by
December 31, 1985, about six months after the end of project implementa-
tion.
Operation and Maintenance
71.     In order to assure the effective operation and sustained main-
tenance of the project facilities, the provincial governments would
annually increase the budgetary allocations for O&M to reach estimated
required levels of recurrent funding by FY85. Each year during the project
period, PIDs would prepare an annual O&M program which would specify the
type of activities proposed to be undertaken over the whole system and
would identify segments of canals, drains and bunds to receive special
maintenance, including reaches to be desilted and related requirements of
manpower, equipment and financial resources. Annual O&M activities would
be carefully monitored, analyzed and evaluated by PIDs with the objective
of improving management and implementing procedures. Items to be analyzed
would include maintenance priorities, frequencies and schedules, work
procedures and controls; inspection procedures and follow-up would also be
reviewed. To assist in formulating and evaluating the annual O&M programs,
the project would provide expatriate experts in O&M irrigation system
management (paragraph 58 above). The level of funding proposed by the PIDs
for O&M would be submitted to IDA each year for review and comment and may
be appropriately revised. The annual program would specify the increased
level of O&M funding to be provided in the forthcoming fiscal year. The
provincial budgets would provide the agreed level of incremental funding
for O&M activities for the surface irrigation, surface drainage and flood
protection facilities (Section 2.01(b) and (d) of the draft Project Agree-
ments).
Monitoring and Evaluation
72.     Monitoring.  PIDs would have the responsibility of collecting,
reviewing and monitoring information regarding the physical and financial
aspects of the project. They would prepare quarterly and annual progress



-2 1--
reports and submit them to the Cell within 30 days of the end of the
reporting period. This program would provide project management with early
warning signals regarding current and/or potential implementation problems.
73.     Evaluation would concentrate on assessing the impact of the
project's major components on such aspects as water distribution and equity
of deliveries, effectiveness of drainage rehabilitation, and farmers'
response to project improvements. The Federal Coordinating Cell would
contract for project evaluation with an appropriate organization by Decem-
ber 31, 1982 (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
experience and capability of WAPDA's Alluvial Canal Observation Project
(ACOP) make it a satisfactory organization to undertake such work (see
paragraph 58 above). The project evaluation would be based on inputs and
information collected by the PIDs and supplemented by ACOP's own data
collection program. ACOP would prepare a program of work and submit it
through the Federal Coordinating Cell for the review and approval of IDA
and IJSAID. ACOP would prepare semi-annual progress reports and a final
Project Evaluation Report to be submitted to the Cell and to IDA within two
and four months, respectively, of the close of the reporting period. In
addition, the supervisory consultants would evaluate the efficiency of
equipment usage and the quality of construction work. Both monitoring and
evaluation activities would be under the supervision of the Federal Coor-
dinating Cell.
Water Charges
74.    A fundamental objective of the proposed project is to ensure the
safe, efficient and effective operation of the irrigation system on a
sustained and continuous basis through the rehabilitation of selected
schemes and by providing an adequate and properly funded O&M program.
75.     A major reason for the inadequacy of available O&M funds in the
past has been the low level of water charges, which since the mid-1970s
have covered about 70% of actual O&M expenditures, which themselves have
been inadequate. In addition, an increasing proportion of O&M funding has
been directed to operate and maintain public tubewells (paragraph 42),
further limiting the funds available for canal maintenance. Water charges
in Pakistan are imposed on an acreage basis and vary with the crops grown
*            each season.  Although the provincial governments have raised water rates
substantially in recent years (paragraph 45 above), water charges currently
represent only about 6% of the net per acre income from crops.
76.     The Pakistan Government intends to address these issues both by
increasing water charges further and by endeavoring to expand the role of
the private sector in tubewell activities, thereby reducing the burden of
tubewell O&M on public resources. GOP has initiated a study for a "SCARP
Transition Program" with a view to preparing an accelerated plan of action
for the phasing out of public tubewells or their divestment to the private



-22-
sector in fresh groundwater areas. This project preparation study would be
completed and submitted to IDA by July 1, 1983, for the Association's
review and comment on the study's findings and recommendations (Section
3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
77.     The Provinces would periodically increase water charges, or make
other financial arrangements, in order to cover an increasing proportion of
the agreed improved maintenance program of the irrigation facilities (see
paragraph 71) so as to achieve a full recovery of O&M costs in line with
the time schedules agreed under previous IDA financed projects (Section
3.01 of the draft Project Agreements). This goal would be reached in Sind
by 1988 (Khairpur II Project, Credit No. 648); by 1990 in Punjab (SCARP VI
Project, Credit No. 754); and by 1991 in NWFP (SCARP Mardan Project, Credit
No. 877). It would be reached by 1992 in Baluchistan. The federal and
provincial governments have indicated that, in order to achieve these
levels of O&M financing, water charges would be raised at least every two
years, subject to obtaining any necessary legislative approvals.
Benefits and Risks
78.     The project aims to increase agricultural production and farm
incomes on existing irrigation subsystems and small irrigation schemes
which have deteriorated due to inadequate maintenance and repair. The
Project would enable about 700,000 to 800,000 farm families to raise their
incomes by 5% to 20% by reducing canal failure and flood damage to crops.
The project would also provide a more equitable irrigation water supply to
farmers by increasing deliveries to watercourses located in the tail
reaches of minors and distributaries. Overall direct employment effect
would largely arise from an increase in input utilization on land already
cropped. At full development, estimated employment would increase from the
current 195 M mandays to about 210 M mandays per year, which is equivalent
to approximately 62,000 additional full-time jobs. Construction of the
civil works would create a total of about 8 M mandays of employment during
project implementation, primarily for unskilled labor. The value added in
agriculture plus the increase in input requirements would also generate
indirect additional employment opportunities for farm families with excess
family labor and for landless families.
79.     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for rehabilitation work
is estimated to exceed 50%, with a net present value (NPV) of Rs 4,400 M.
The ERR for each subsystem/scheme and Province shows that rehabilitation
work is justified in all areas proposed to be covered by the project. The
variations in ERR are mainly due to agro-climatic zones and availability of
irrigation water. In general, ERR's tend to be higher for areas with
higher water allocation per ac, which results in higher cropping intensity,
and for areas with higher valued crops grown during the Kharif (summer)
season.



-23-
80.     Financial constraints in one or more Provinces could necessitate
adjustments in the proposed work program during project implementation.
This situation could be readily accommodated by reducing the number of
subsystems/schemes to be rehabilitated under the project or by extending
the project implementation period. Such changes should affect costs and
benefits virtually in similar proportions, leading to a corresponding
reduction in the project's NPV, with minimum changes in the overall ERR.
There is a small risk that some suboptimal subsystems/schemes, despite
meeting the agreed criteria, would be selected because the conditions of
individual subsystems/schemes are variable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the Provinces of Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Punjab
and Sind, respectively, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreenent are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The approval of the
PC-1 document for the project, meeting all conditions precedent to effec-
tiveness of the USAID funding and the appointment of supervisory consult-
ants would be additional conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
82.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
83.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 14, 1982



ANNEX I
24-
TBALE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICAT ORS DATA SHEET
PAKI1.57ft,N                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RN..)                                                      -  MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)-
TOTAL            803.9                                 MOST RECE:;T          LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9              1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFlC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        130.0     260.0               232.3              1136.1
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     136.0        196.1     218.2              499.4               1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAI STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TfkL;SANDS) 458'0.5     60448.9   79705.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1         24.9      27.8                17.3                40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KE.                       57.0         75.2      99.1               153.6               373.1
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0        249.0     309.4              360.3               2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8         46.3      46.4               37.4                 39.8
15-64 YRS.                         51.8         50.5      50.7               59.2                 56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4          3.2       2.9                3.5                  3.5
POPULATION GRONWE  RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3          2.8       3.1                 2.1                 2.3
URBAN                              4.6          4.0       4.3                3.4                  3.8
CRUDE BIRTH FATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.4         47.3      44.4                27.7                29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAN'D)    22.6         17.4      14.3                10.2                 7.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RA'E              3.2          3.7       3.2                 2.5                 1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        .-      1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF tUARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..       6.0               20.4                 44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        102.0     101.0              107.1                123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.0         97.0      99.0               98.6                112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0         6C.0      63.0                56.9                62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0         20.0      20.0                14.2                19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.0         18.4      14.8                14.6                 4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECIANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.5          48.8      52.2                57.7                64.0
INFAN'T MORTAlITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0/c         ..        ..               89.1                 50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT' OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0      29.0               30.1                 45.9
URBAN                               ..         77.0      60.0               65.8                 68.0
RURAL                               ..          4.0      17.0               20.1                 34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       6.0               17.6                 53.4
URBAN                               ..         12.0      21.0               71.0                 71.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                4.8                 42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0/d    4299.0/e  375d.0:'e           3857.7               4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..     13305.97e  9984.8/e           6411.8               2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1742.9       1860.1    1894.8             1132.8                588.5
URBAN                            507.2        6418.5    709.2              322.3                579.6
RURAL                          22850.0      12476.0  11819.6              5600.5               1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4          5.3
URBAN                              5.5          5.5
RURAL                              5.4          5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1          2.87f
URBAN                              3.1          2.77i
RURAL                              3.1          2.5/f
ACCESS TO ELECrRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        17.9/f
URBAN                               ..         54.4/f
RURAL                               *-         4.97



-25-                                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT           LhW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0       51.0                85.9                  99.8
MALE                  46.0         62.0       69.0                 94.4                 100.6
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       32.0                 64.5                 98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0       17.0/7               38.0/aa              53.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0       25.0/                34.67aa               58.4
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.074               18.07aa               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0             1.5        1.5/i               3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0       40.0                 32.8                 34.2
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0       19.0/j               19.9                 31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          15.0/g      20.7       24.0                 52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2,6        2.8                  1.7                 12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1       66.8                 35.3                174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6        8.3                  3.7                 50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0           ..       13.3                 14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ASNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/h       ..                  3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA'OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6        17364.1   21787.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3       10.4                 29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               60.8         58.9       57.2                 69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9         18.7       19.9                 14.1                 21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.3                 39.7                  40.2
MALE                                   55.2        50.4       47.5                 51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                                  5.7          5.5        5.9                23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCEN.T OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUIE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-         68.0      176.0                134.1                248.6
RURAL                                 ..         47.0      122.0                111.6                193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..        34.0       88.0                   ..                249.8
RURAL                                 ..         22.0       58.0                   ..                234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..        42.0       32.0                41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                  .,        43.0       29.0                 51.7                 32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise notea, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estioate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes B-gladesh;  /c Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
/I 1960-62;  /h '972;  /i 1963-64;  /i 1975.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
-26-
W---..: AOlro,oSh to.. 0.r.r  do.oo ft-o -ooro-         £17  odgod 00    o 8ooor o.to -.o  00 01           -or      ld ai.. h. -ced that rhy.8  000 ha roto-
jootoy -0 -if.-  c.-ofts   o    00.......oo000  tOo.o    Sto..              0   00f80of                ..o.o.etoo O........    osO.oo  0    ..hlryo .0
.od0~rotooitoo.0.1000.-do k.-ro.o4 o.1oooooe.o   o,001.0   oot.      O.   0008£0ol   .fl0   opoo    Otlto
0odtosooao.o0ossooo~  Ott  :oor   oootood oo.
LOADASIAdtto..o4 .o.~.I                                    fooAor19yo Oo~~0) to-tot  I o0.o   roltot.' -Ooo-.rho (ttal
tott    To.toof.o 558o00000o  1045o0  .d  olr.4.oooooho,.00,01)dOtld h  000  00) ooor0o~0- ofho- tt)- oo
1070, .t  19(oro.                                                                       .o197-laool.oo1970000.   Id,t...o...
_j-'_  -:,b-d    1980o  -torootoo:r   o  ortol  soloo.--o  0.00
trcr)tb  too.   fto   ,oo)o   o   st.  ih ..1(. ...d 19-9                                 oooo.trtoo    ot  ,98oIo.os   otoooo. 
iI,I Id l. lhI b--    f lh. 1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     tooototelo.d. Aotdo-by  00-ooh.rof t                    _. 
Tota  folh ot2,o00ot.o. tohooaso-o  I-.0   of  .ofIl1;l1860,t 1979  -od 19(             1097
dor8-                                                                          tooqrioo   f 0o009o4.105.Oo Ar ohoof..            4(.   total  ora    .odto,l
0).119    --d199dooI.    tf-torfo
fooslofot:)-oooo00100oototo.I.hsdo98                                                     oo I ot0....        000                         Ioooo dooOOfOo8
torsAoOtlrtttotOsaosoradtf.05.000009.oltOtlooo.00.     dollfogoooorooosl    0,0  ltot.ot.00ooo-s,.o.oto0-otodAs£.
Frfootr poooos  oo.00000050  ooptC   ttotr   ool.0oolooootd   0
tosltoooooo..oyo   tt00too0a8:~ooooootfsph ....       0000                 0080    's,dtt  ooootOotId-,ros..,o,o~oo1
food   a-dfOo.asltooepo:o.ooOtooo.ttao   00 oood. . -Os                                          h. Coot   010  0oht0000010005r08
ooO 9OofOotto s7oo .oo..osooMso.,ooootltoo                                        fool-oOOdoOlobOoltOorl.y
If     ooo   0000*~Oodooo borro 000 t-OAf0-lyo  ot-    --00..t                                                         .hI007
soPri..      081   o   ooooo   0000.0000  00000_.000.
300100o.o.o)r.o000000loOoooltoofOtloooot   loo00000                                           ___             0   000           .ttr.ao.d-.l
thabothr.t  180..l oohoOoof.o,t.oo  cot  ooossoototoo-             tot)   ootfo(oooso    000ooo   Oro-o
000   o.oo    O.t  ots,   ooto    oo-Oo  ,o   oto  0                                            oo.   ofoo00ppo.oo                 oOl    oosO lro0401
tbtslooooorotfotooo    0000A00050  .bsoohr.oooOo                             o.ot.doroft08000    0070    ot.tyooOd.00It
otosat.lso.t.ofoootl.   Oo.oootoopooloto.foo.                                    000                        o0...0000  ..otob-oedld  OO00
.st.aodotr  oo,  f  topolo'ooosoooototooohpooloth                                    10005   otto6obo1979ootooodo81000I80
toroyot20. o,O  oto.-ofI080110  of fotito8sooA.0sod op- 9ooo                                                0to.    -0004 19o.;O9oad
IOoo bootoo: OA   00                                                               o  tl  09101780O   01000pAd00   000   0   08.
totalf-1 so-.,g...;f'                                             1  .                9 19'0 9o  00  Ot  ,0-  Oolo 9oo 9Ooo..lthoooII. I 000    0088ofo   por   ossd
P_-tSjo   .   00f       o     8004000 "Oootooltoat.00                                     oobooo.IArt-o ...to  0.080000, 081000..A
15-d0f-  I-01.tooo90.                                                                       dltldooooot(oooo(oLt-80oobo(.loo..dooAb.
Chioldrot00,0  ho--oro             000     ooo   000   oe  ofr toot .....0.otoo                                  of oI.  co -tOoolslO   gd) OS -os-d 090
0800 Ooooloo-o  fll.     bOot .      000. -19-: 19o00      -
t.htt. Oo tol--ot. 119.0  .odtOtOtS .00.oooso0.00  05 ofoss. ...                                            oOtoo( .50So.O0.8....8000
totdoOooO 000000  00500:- .-ool Oo  hooo  oooho.o4ofol-ocooao..rooIt.  O.oogt  00000  00140  OAoO-o8  08A0bso
pofpoWlsoo- 110  lOt 00-        09Ot -       1 d-tcoyoofolof
Cooo 0.00foj~foo_htoooo-ooo.  botstooooo8coe  f sd-y.A   oool.otooolbo00hloso_0000543)     00  0-00of  00.000 to r40
If0.00   Ot000   0   78008                                                                   A.-sO0   80.  oht   0  toso   ffpttotoooo   0
Coo. Oootooolo:.O4000000A0 tobooof Ooohtooo  0080otlIhos  ft      ttOoodOo.loAo tooooott£.800  0 00--            8.I8  ott.05-00 o
oIl ryrsos-.  ooolo f t0-00o.oooOooOOtot10 1000  900  000 ItO.        080  ooooto-   000-.04 1000000.I
....... ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~-   0                          botsto  .ogo00



-27-
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81                                                                                            ANNUAL RATE OP GROWTH (%. corsant prices)
US$ billios        %                                                              1969/70-1974/75       1975/76-1980/81      1980/81
QiP at Harker Prices                       29.99         100.0                                                                  3.5                  6.3                6.2
Gross Domestic In-estment                   4.87          16.2                                                                 -5.5                   5.4               4.4
Gross National Savirg                       3.94          13.1                                                                 -2.1                   8.2              10.3
k      Current Account Balance                    -0.95           -
Resoutce Gap                               -2.93          -9.8                                                                  6.7                 15.1              -29.4
OCTPDT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTCIITY IN 1979/83la
Value Added            Labor FPrce       V.A. Per Worker
US$ uillion    Z       Million    I.       USi  million    7
Agric.lture                   7.538          30       13.2       54          571          56
I,dustry                      6.490          26        4.5       18       1,442          141
Sercices                     11.127          44        6.9       28       1,613          158
Total/Average              25,155         100       24.6     100        1,023          100
GOVERISMENT FINANCE
General Goverrnent                                           Central Governmenr
(Rs billion)               Z of GDP                      (Rs billion)                U Of GDP
1980/81           1930/81     19.6/77-1980/81           1980181           1980/81       1976/77-1980/l1
Current Receipts                   46.8              16.9            16.2                  36.1               13.0            12.4
Current Expenditures'              36.8              13.3            14.0                  28.6               10.3            10.5
Currect Surplus/Deficit           100.0               3.6             2.2                    7.5               2.7             1.9
Capital Expenditures               25.0               9.0             9.7                  21.5                7.8             7.8
External Assistance (net)           5.7               2.0             3.0                   5.7                2.0             3.0
!1INEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/60      1980/_l/b
ioney and Quasi Money                        33.1         41.6         51.7         63.7         76.5         90.7         104.0
Bask Credit to Public Sec-cr (net)          17.7          22.9         29.5         34.3         43.1         48.1          53.8
Ban/k Credit to Pr-vate Secter (gross)      19.7          23.1         30.1         35.7         42.7         50.6          58.7
lloney and Quasi Money as B GDP             31.6          34.3         38.1         40.5         42.8         42.7          41.7
Wh.olesale Price Index (1969/70 - 100)    211.3          229.4        255.3        271.4        289.7        316.7         358.8
Annual Percentage Change in:
WV'olesale Price loden                      23.6           8.6         11.3          6.3          6.7          9.3          13.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          21.2          29.4         28.8         16.6         25.6         11.6          11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sectcr (gross)       26.3          17.3         30.3         18.6         19.6         18.5          16.0
/a  Labor force data arc official figures .f the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious underenumeratioe  way exist, especially of vonen.
/b Pcoviaional.
Not applicable.
February 1982



-28-
ANNgX I
3AL/-IC: OF PAYMEXTS                  (USS rillion)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trlix-
141 0141 OF PAY'47iYT                                                          (18 million                                                M4:9.CRA,NDISE EXPCORTS_ ¢VERAGINC 1977/77-lAn//RUj
1976/77      1977/78        197R/79        ;979/80        1980/81 /a                                            _'. millirn       _
Exports of Goods. 'S7                                   1,404         1.651           2,107         2,955          3,450                 Raw Cotton                      259.4              S.5
Imports of  _ooda. NFS                                  2,b77      _3,297           4,4S5           5709           6,395                 Cotton Yarn                     179,3              9.d
R.source Cap (deficit * - 5                            -1,473        -1,646         -2,378         -2,754         -2,935                 Cntton Cloth                    219.2             12.4
Rice                            393.2             19.6
Intereut Paynentsn                                       -172          -!83           -261           -285           -322                All Other ComaoditJes          1,034.6            49.7
Workars' Rnn,ittances                                     578         1,166          1,395          1,748          2,117                   Total                       2,085.7           100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)                                15            62            134            151            193
Net Iran     c                                                           --s  -    _    _                            _                          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEIBPER 31, 1990
Bala"ce on Corrent Account                             -1,052          -601         -1,110         -1.140           -947
Direct Foreign Investnent                                   . .          .               ,             ..             ..                                                             USS million
Net MT Borrowing                                                                                                                         Public Debt, In,l.,ding Couranteed           8,775.3
Disb,re-mect.                                           961           d41            913         1,134          1,067                 ron-g-aran-etd Private Debc /                       ..
Amortization                                           -175          -122           -235           -310           -358                   Total Outstanding and Disb.raed            6,775.3
Sb TIctal                                               786           719            578           dZ4             709
Trans-otiona with IMF /b                                   44            41            -14             78            331                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80 Li
Other Items n.e.i. /c                                      24           163            238            600            217                                                             US$ million
Increase in Reserves (-I                                  198          -322            308           -362           -310                 Public Debt, Incl.diog Guarantaed              12.1
Non-g    et,Icldli uaranteed Prvae.1b
Gross Reserves (Fear end) /d                              372           694            386            748          1,058                 Non-guaranteed Priate Debt                    -1.
Net Reservas (year end) ,I                               -146           150            -92            340            330
Official Gold (year ead; million o,nces)                  1.6           1.7            1.8            1.8            1.9                  IBRD/IDA LEY0IN7  SEPTE-0ER 1991) (US$ million)
Fuel And Related M9aterials                                                                                                                                                           OBen      IDA
Petrrolec= Inports                                        413           497            530          1,079          1,535                Outstanding and Diaborsed                    312.2     825.6
Petrolesm Exports                                          27            63             bl            178            169                 Undisbursed                                  36.5    549.9
Outstaading, including Undisborsed          348.7  1,375.5
RATE Of EXChANGE
Through May 11, 1972        MaY 11, 1972 - Yebruary 15, 1973           February 15, 1973 - January 8, 1982           anuary 8, 1982 ,h
US$ - Rs 4.7619                  US0   - 11.00                                 USS - 9.90                          US$   10.1
Rs  * US50.2100                  Rs  * 0.0909                                  Rs  * 0.1010                        Rs  . 0.09
LG Government estimute.
/b Including Trost Food,
c  Inclodi.g net ahort-c.r. n-r-owing and error.s and omissiuns.
/d Foreign exchange and S0R hoidings of the State oank,
/c  Excluding  .sa  of IM  credit.
/f Private debt is -eolig.bhe.
La  Ratio of debt servi.e to e-ports of goods, non-faootr services and *orkers  remittances; not including ahort-tarn or IMF charges.
Lh  Since Janoary 8, 1982, value of rupee is being  nnaged  i.th reEerence to a weighted basKet of c-rrencies.
Not available.
February 1982



-29-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 1, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                         (Amount net of cancellation)
Credit                                                                                 Undis-
Number   Year   Borrower   Purpose                            Bank    TW        IDA    bursed
Seventy-nine loans and credits fully disbursed /a             611.2            616.3
422      1973   Pakistan   Karachi Port III                    --                18.6    0.1
492      1974   Pakistan   Karachi Port IV                     --                16.0    0.4
1107     1975   SNGPL       Gas Pipeline IV                    53.0              --      0.7
546      1975   Pakistan   Industrial Dev. (NDFC)              --               30.0    0.5
1208T    1976   Pakistan   Power Transmission                  --      32.0      --      1.9
620      1976   Pakistan   Seed                                --                23.0    7.5
1326     1976   PICIC       Industrial Development             25.0              --      0.4
630      1976   Pakistan   Lahore Water II                      -               26.0    7.4
648      1976   Pakistan   Irrigation and Drainage             --               14.0    7.0
1366T    1977   Pakistan   Livestock                           --      10.0      --      9.8
1372     1977   Pakistan   Railways                            35.0              --    14.2
684      1977   Pakistan   Railways                            --               25.0    1.5
678      1977   Pakistan   Education III                       --                15.0    7.9
751      1977   Pakistan   Hill Farming                        --                 3.0    1.6
754      1978   Pakistan   SCARP-VI                            --               70.0   69.1
755      1978   Pakistan   Hazara Forestry                     --                 1.7    1.5
813      1978   Pakistan   Punjab Extension                    --                12.5    7.8
846      1978   Pakistan   Fauji Fertilizer                    --               55.0    6.6
867      1979   Pakistan   Toot Oil and Gas Development    --                   30.0    3.1
877      1979   Pakistan   Salinity Control & Reclamation  --                    60.0   58.8
892      1979   Pakistan   Primary Education                   --                10.0    8.6
922      1979   Pakistan   Sind Agricultural Extension         --                 9.0    9.0
957      1979   Pakistan   Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --                   30.0   17.6
968      1980   Pakistan   Third WAPDA Power                   --               45.0   40.2
974      1980   Pakistan   Third Highway                       --                50.0   42.4
1019     1980   Pakistan   PICIC Industrial Development    -                    40.0   30.4
Total                                                         724.2   42.0  1,200.1  356.0
of which has been repaid                                    429.6    -        27.7
Total now outstanding                                         294.6   42.0  1,172.4
Amount sold                           23.9
of which has been repaid              23.9                   --       --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                             294.6   42.0  1,172.4
Total undisbursed                                              15.3   11.7    329.0  356.0
/a Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over
by Bangladesh.
/b Prior to exchange adjttstments.



-30-
ANNEX II
B.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (as of March 1, 1982)
Credit                                                   Amount in SDR Million
Number   Year   Borrower   Purpose                       Original   Undisbursed
1066     1981   Pakistan   Fertilizer Imports              38.2         20.2
1109     1981   Pakistan   Vocational Training             19.7         19.7
1113     1981   Pakistan   Small Industries                23.6         23.5
1157 /b  1981   Pakistan   Grain Storage                   26.1         26.1
1158 T   1981   Pakistan   Agricultural Research           19.7         19.7
1163 lb  1981   Pakistan   On-Farm Water Management    33.4             33.4
1186 7T  1982   Pakistan   Second IDBP                     26.7         26.7
Total                                                     187.4         169.3
of which has been repaid                                  --_--
Total now outstanding                                     187.4
Total now held by IDA                                     187.4
Total undisbursed                                                      169.3
/a Not yet effective.
7T Effective in March 1982.



-31--
ANNEX II
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 1, 1982)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel          0.63      --        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                0.75      --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25    0.42        5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --      0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        4.43    0.84        5.27
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63        6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food         2.40    0.40        2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and          29.00    1.62       30.62
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-      1.78      --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board        2.70      --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.20        3.35
Total Gross Commitments                     63.91    9.68      73.59
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                36.15    1.01       37.16
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           27.76    8.67      36.43
Undisbursed (including participants)         5.85    0.57       6.42



-32-
ANNEX II
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Work to construcl: a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool is virtually
completed. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have been met.
Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Construction of a
second power plant with six units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have
been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer tlhe Tarbela Development
Fund.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications and
signaling scheme is makir.g good progress and the complete network is expected
to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been completed and the
total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 422         Third Karachi Port:  IJS$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Physical work on the project is expected to be completed in April
1982; undisbursed Credit funds (about US$0.1 million) are committed and final
withdrawals are expected by end--April 1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
Credit No. 492         Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of March 1, 1982, disbursements
amounted to US$15.6 million. The balance is committed and final withdrawals
are expected by end-April 1982.
Loan No. 1326          Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date: November
29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.4 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Credit No. 546         National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975; Effective
Date: July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.5 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May 15,
1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Closing Date of the Loan has been extended to December 31, 1982
to allow the Borrower to utilize undisbursed funds toward increasing the
capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi natural gas distribution system. Con-
struction should be completed in June 1982.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1983
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of three processing plants
in Punjab due to disputes with civil works contractors. As presently
scheduled, the Punjab component should be completed by June 1983. The plant
in Sind is complete except for some silos and the machinery is installed.
The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been extended to June 30,
1983.



-34-
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Poject:  US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted.  Construction delays, however,
continue and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Most of the project components were commissioned in the last quarter
of 1980.  Some payments are outstanding pending final comnissioning of the
remaining components. GOP has requested an extension of the Closing Date to
September 30, 1982 to accommodate payment of these sums.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule due to
delays in employing consultants and procurement problems. Canal remodeling,
surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily but the tile
and collector drain construction has progressed slowly. Actions have been
initiated with the Association's concurrence to curtail cost overruns and
reduce completion delays.
Credit 678             Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is generally making good progreiss. Nearly all of civil
works contracts have been awarded and about 80% have been completed. One
project study has been completed and the two others are nearing completion.
About 70% of the project equipment has been procured and the balance is in
the process of procurement. Technical assistance specialist services are now
being provided satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used
or committed. Project implementation in Sind and Baluchistan is behind
schedule by about one year, due to initial delays in building construction.



-35-
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Third Window Loan of
February 18, 1977; Effective Date; August 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have conditionally agreed on a revised
project which would aim to rehabilitate the Lahore Milk Plant and to estab-
lish about 300 Village Livestock Associations and their related service
activities.  The contract of the milk plant consultants has been extended to
cover the period of construction and commissioning of the plant.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies are causing implementation problems, and the com-
ponents dealing with fodders, demonstration farms, apples and land-use are
progressing slowly. Nevertheless, most technical developments are progress-
ing satisfactorily and the training program is on schedule. A draft proposal
for a follow-up project has been received. Expenditures and disbursements
have been less than expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, chir pine forest inventory and pulping test
for chir pine, and the first phase of the feasibility study have been com-
pleted. As a result of these developments, the final phase of the
feasibility study is expected to commence in the Fall of 1982.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be



-36-
weak.  Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting consult-
ants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September
14, 1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and commercial production is due to
start in April 1982.
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date:  April 25, 1979;
1T-sing Date:  March 31, 198
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems. However, serious
well-drilling and management problems still persist. Project implementation
is about 15 months behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December
31, 1981, has been extended to Mlarch 31, 1983, to allow completion of the
original 8-well drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mar-
dan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: October 16, 1979;,Closing Date: June 30,
71986
Initial budgetary and other problems have been resolved and CIDA (the
project co-financier) is assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation
activities as well as in preparing subsurface drainage design and specifica-
tions.  The project is about two years behind schedule.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
JUn-e 30, 1985
Good progress is being maintained. About 80% of the project inputs
including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have been
provided with less than six months' delay. The evaluation program is being
redesigned after the experiences gained in the first 18 months of evaluation.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Developme-nt Bank:  US$30 Mtillion
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
198(); CTTslng Date:  December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been satis-
factory and the agricultural engineering training component has begun. It is
anticipated that project completion will be about one year behind schedule.



-37-
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started. Recruitment of consultants has been delayed pending signing of a
project agreement between UNDP and GOP.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical assis-
tance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance, and several
contractors have shown interest in using loans through IDBP for purchase of
mechanical equipment.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date:  October 29, 1980(; Clos-
ing Date: March 31, 1984
As of March 1, 1982, about US$29 million had been authorized for
subloans and US$9.6 million disbursed. GOP and PICIC have taken corrective
measures to improve-collections on past sub-loans and the implementation of
the project is proceeding well.
Credit No. 1066        Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
A                 ~_(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980; Effec-
tive Date: December 1, 1980; Closing Date: September
30, 1982
As of February 1982, about US$21 million had been committed. The
Closing Date, originally June 30, 1981, has been extended to September 30,
1982 to accommodate the award of contract for and shipment of the remaining
fertilizer under the project.



-38-
Credit No. 1109         Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Mil-
lion Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Agreements have been reached with ILO for the provision of technical
assistance services and for procurement of equipment, and a contract signed
with architectural consultants for the provision of design services. The
institutional and in-plant training components are about six months behind
schedule.
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Subloan commitment started in January 1982 after key commercial bank
loan officers were trained in November/December 1981. Bidding for equipment
and selection of consultants for the service centers are in progress.
Evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants for the export promotion
and the project development components are ongoing.
Credit No. 1157         Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equaivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date: March
15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
(This Credit was declared effective on March 15, 1982).
Credit No. 1158         Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (USS24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effective Date:
April 29, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1163         On--Farm Water Management:  S]DR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) ot August IV, Il61; Ettec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
(This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982).
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development: Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
May 19, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



_39_                           ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
10 months
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
NESPAK, a Pakistani consulting firm.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and first IDA
mission to consider the project:
April 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
June 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
March 23, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
August 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



-40-                            ANNEX III
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) appointment of a local firm for supplying
the supervisory consultants (paragraph 58);
(b) approval of the PC-1 by ECNEC (paragraph
66); and
(c) meeting all conditions precedent to
effectiveness of USAID funding (para-
graph 66).
Other Conditions
(a) design for rehabilitation of schemes in
line with PID's specifications and main-
tenance of the integrity of the minimum
designed freeboard (paragraph 53);
(b) selection of schemes in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to IDA and
submission to IDA of schemes selected
for rehabilitation (paragraph 55);
(c)  inclusion in the provincial budgets of the
required level of incrementaLl funding
for O&M activities (paragrapih 71);
(d) periodical increases of water charges at
levels sufficient to cover increasing pro-
portions of an agreed stepped-up O&M program
of the irrigation system so as to achieve a
full recovery of O&M costs in accordance
with the time schedules agreed under previous
IDA financed projects (paragraph 77).



____________ __________-                                           _-_                                                                                              __._    _ _. _    _ _ -SE-                  -           B    O   'v
-                                                                              P A  K  I S  T A  N                                                                                               1_, F      ]
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION  PROJECT
2     \                                                         Prv1ecr rrsgvtrvSSWvskshvps   r --.- Dnms urd Re,arvvois                      ' rpstr--Hc,R-...ler...
i           \                                                  -   D3ra0ncanls-sl RiErsinmr                                             ----Prawn  al Eourav,vs                                                  >
}   .\                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drv aks   .-.Inrorvnar,orrv    ild2le 
I    R    A    N                   \                                '                                                                                                                                                                        (    lI  S   S   R
I2/                                \                                            DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                                                                      5   /   S  .
0 F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~
AFGHAN I STAN N                                                         7 K                           h             -- '
G-;/-l->         ~     ~~~                                                                                                                                                           1>                             - i'  ;x -  /S 7 - - ; \sr,><i2t,,a-  (  
.-.,.4  ''N.  ,r                                               N.(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~--. "'l                                fx            (          <'A \70A15S5S5                                  C
Kh-,rn                      -     QUETTA®                  /      y                                RCrrsShSSr                   '-2AtA 1
6                                                                                                                                            k~~~a""                        Floo~zr q          4           0<;N,~ 1XYt ,ig ,1F '_ ' tr r*<9v  ..................... 
ccrjv,vr         0                            /H , "a! - -' n'rrrPr 9 ,.,                                             N    F
hS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D7 vyz.s.  Loa' ;  ,.,AI                                                                                                                                     SHA.U;                                                 I.
s R A tJ   A aHAN SI^ 5S "' " 8'    ~~~~~~~~~~   \   ./Dacar-Zrb'''"'                                                                                                             »>9    N   x         *I5(
OJAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,h                                                                                                           ,   /                      N                        2 TAHrITssbenFerdbf j    
B    A     I    U           H rS                  A      N .1' .                                    /     N.C          I                                                          SLA.  'B I
r.                                                Dora Sine f1,  Kho1S#7                          SI;C1_    __ #     _'D -h
E.d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I"'aS INA/N
-.--1E"'-                                  D.,/Gh-Kh.D/
'"'-5  Noorooco                   T'crv~~~~~~~~a5PSv,  r                                                                 S INAcvMk~~~Jh
F"'  <7>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'~~~~~M EA.                1aeosL/Mvafr                                                                                                                    
c~~ rARACHtIv                                                                                                                                                                           THEv c1 c nr  II rvci4I~JrS~  cS
</  71.-4tIa  .~~}SC0SASS                           /  Meson    r P   O>V   /  N   C767
I 11H   Z' 1.1~KARAHIA HoIl/'                                                           6-'a'
/5'  N    C  A                                                                                                          '~~~~~~~~~~I' T7    1  W 1'    SOS'3-
(OS  ji ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                               Bv,.cS-          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



