C OFICIAL
DOUENTS LIT NUMBER 1239 PAK
Punjab Project Agreement
(Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1239 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM      ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVI       OF PUNJAB   acting by   its Governor
(hereinafter called Punjab).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies   equivalent  to  thirty-five   million  five   hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,500,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only  on   condition  that   Punjab  agrees   to  undertake   such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Punjab shall carry out and shall cause to
be carried out that part of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement for which Punjab or any of
its agencies shall be responsible with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, and engineering practices, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
(b) With respect to that part of the Project for which
Punjab is financially responsible, Punjab shall: (i) make ade-
quate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of
such part; and (ii) take appropriate steps for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities and equipment provided under the
Project.
(c) Without limitation on the above, Punjab shall cause its
Provincial Irrigation Department (i) to be responsible for imple-
menting the Project and (ii) to designate a Chief Engineer as the
Provincial Project Coordinator.
(d) Without limitation on the above, Punjab shall annually
increase the funds available for operation and maintenance for
canal, surface drainage and flood protection bunds. The levels of
funding proposed by the Provincial Irrigation Department for
operation and maintenance shall be reviewed annually and shall be
furnished to the Association for review and comment by March I of
each year.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Part of the Project for which Punjab is responsible and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Punjab undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance or replacement of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by Punjab to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Punjab shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.04. With respect to that part of the Project for
which Punjab or any of its agencies shall be responsible:
(a) Punjab shall furnish to the Association, through the
Borrower, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents


﻿- 3 -
and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Punjab: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits Lo be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Punjab of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Punjab shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property,   equipment  and  records/documents   relevant  to   the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation after consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with
the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Punjab shall promptly inform the Association through
the Borrower of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Punjab of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) In selecting the canals to be rehabili-
tated in the Province of Punjab under Part A of the Project,


﻿-4-
Punjab shall use criteria which shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) In carrying out the civil works in the Province of
Punjab under Part A of the Project, Punjab shall use specifica-
tions satisfactory to the Association and shall maintain the
integrity of the minimum designed free board in rehabilitated
channels.
(c) Without limitation on the foregoing, the schemes eligi-
ble for rehabilitation shall be included in the Provincial Annual
Development Program. Punjab shall furnish to the Association such
rehabilitation schemes by March 1 of each year for review and
concurrence.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Punjab shall increase water charges period-
ically, or make other appropriate financial arrangements, to
cover an increasing percentage of the cost of operation and
maintenance of irrigation facilities located in Punjab, so that
by July 1, 1990, the full cost of such operation and maintenance
is being recovered.
Section 3.02. In respect of activities related to the Pro-
ject:
(a) Punjab shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture.
(b) Punjab shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. In respect of activities related to the
Project, Punjab's Provincial Irrigation Department shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association through the Borrower as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested, including, with-
out limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said audi-
tors: (A) on the separate accounts referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement; (B) in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to 'n Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit made available to it and
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
(c) furnish to the Association through the Borrower such
other information concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(d) without limitation on the above, furnish unaudited
accounts of the nature referred to in (b) above to the Associa-
tion not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Section 3.04. Punjab shall operate, maintain, and repair,
or cause to be operated, maintained, and repaired, in accordance
with appropriate management practices, the facilities and equip-
ment provided under that portion of the Project located in
Punjab.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Punjab of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. Txa addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For the Province of Punjab:
Chairman, Planning and
Development Board/
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                   Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                    82-04-4868
Lahore                         Punjab Secretariat
Lahore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be taken or executed by its
Chairman, Planning and Development Board/Additional Chief Secre-
tary, Planning and Development Department or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the Distrl--t
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By               &X
By Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By 6
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General
1.   Contracts for civil works shall, except as set out in para-
graph 2 below, be awarded in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works, other than those in paragraph I above, involv-
ing substantial quantities of earthwork with long leads, under-
water excavation or repair and replacement of hydraulic struc-
tures may be carried out by force account.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Punjab shall furnish to the
Associe-ion, for its comments, the _x   of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Punjab
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
Punjab and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 10 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Punjab shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and Punjab and state the reasons for such determination.


