                                                                93898
        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




               SECOND AND FINAL PROGRESS REPORT

ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT’S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO

      THE INSPECTION PANEL REPORT (REPORT 64458-PG) ON THE



                        PAPUA NEW GUINEA

       SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                       (IDA CREDIT 4374-PNG)




                          December 20, 2014
                   Abbreviations and Acronyms

BOD      Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CELCOR   Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights
COD      Chemical Oxygen Demand
CSA      Country Situational Analysis
DAL      PNG Department of Agriculture and Livestock
EA       Environmental Assessment
EIP      Environmental Impact Point
FFB      Fresh Fruit Bunch
GoPNG    Government of Papua New Guinea
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IPN      Inspection Panel
MAP      Management Action Plan
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OPIC     Oil Palm Industry Corporation
PGK      Papua New Guinea Kina
PIP      Public Investment Project
POME     Palm Oil Mill Effluent
PNG      Papua New Guinea
RMTF     Road Maintenance Trust Fund
RSPO     Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil
SADP     Smallholder Agriculture Development Project




          Currency Equivalents (as of December 20, 2014)
                       1 PGK = 0.37 USD
                       1 USD = 2.53 PGK



                                ii
                                                              Papua New Guinea

                                         Smallholder Agriculture Development Project

                                                                     (P079140)

                                                           Progress Report No.: 2

                                          Implementation of Management Action Plan




                                                                   CONTENTS

Executive Summary ....................................................................................................................................... i
I. INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................................................... 1
II. MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN.......................................................................................................... 4
III. PROGRESS ON MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION ........................................ 5
IV. NEXT STEPS ......................................................................................................................................... 9




                                                                           iii
                                    Final Progress Report

                   Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP)


                                     Executive Summary

1.     On December 17, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection (IPN
Request RQ09/10) for the Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP). The Request
for Inspection was submitted by the Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights
(CELCOR), acting as a representative of affected individuals from Oro Province.

2.     The Board of Executive Directors on March 25, 2010 approved the Inspection Panel’s
recommendation to carry out an investigation of the alleged instances of harm from
noncompliance. The Panel’s Investigation Report was issued on September 19, 2011. Bank
Management submitted to the Board its Report and Recommendation in response to the Panel’s
findings on October 31, 2011; this included a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP). The
MAP committed to actions in three key areas (a) information disclosure, consultation and broad
community support; (b) environment; and (c) institutional sustainability. On December 13, 2011,
the Executive Directors considered the two above reports and approved the MAP proposed by
Management. Executive Directors asked for reporting on the implementation of the actions
presented in the MAP and Annex 1 of the Management Response.

3.     Management prepared the first progress report on the implementation of the MAP, dated
January 11, 2014. The report covered the period of January 2012 to September 2013. The Project
closed on December 31, 2013. This is the second and final progress report on the implementation
of the MAP covering the period of October 2013 to June 2014. All MAP items have been
completed. Key advances covering the period October 2013 to June 2014 are as described below.

Information Disclosure, Consultation and Broad Community Support

4.      Development and implementation of a consultation framework and documentation of
consultations. The Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC) now has a Consultation Framework
which was used to guide consultations during implementation. This was prepared with Bank
support, and amply reported upon in the first progress report. Consultations with smallholder
farmers were held in the local language and minutes of consultations were prepared. Culturally-
appropriate information was provided to participants. Consultations continued as part of the in-
fill program after the Project closed on December 31, 2013, and the quality of the documentation
has improved with electronic records now available.

Environment

5.     Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) Action Plan. Following a July 2011 baseline study of
the Project area palm oil mills, two follow-up POME studies were completed in February 2013
and December 2013. The December 2013 progress report confirmed that mills have most of the
time continued to implement agreed actions and mitigation measures, as reported earlier in the
                                                i
first progress report. However, OPIC’s capacity to monitor the implementation of the agreed
actions was lost with Project closing, because POME monitoring is not an OPIC mandate. This is
recognized in the SADP Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) (IDA-437401),
which recommended that the Department of Environment Conservation take over the monitoring
responsibilities as part of its mandated activities.

Institutional Sustainability

6.      Road Maintenance Trust Fund Consultations (RMTF) Consultations. Since the first
progress report, the final RMTF report was accepted by OPIC in November 2013. The accepted
version of the report confirms the recommendations for smallholder farmers, milling companies
and the Government of PNG (GoPNG) to contribute to the RMTF. The proposed levels of
contributions to the fund are to be endorsed by all parties involved. The study proposed that the
GoPNG contribute the full cost of the one-time road rehabilitation (PGK60 million) and 80
percent of the annual maintenance cost of PGK50 million. The remaining 20 percent would be
covered by the mills and the growers in the ratio of 15 percent for the mills and 5 percent for the
growers. The RMTF is still to be implemented as designed, although some road maintenance
activities continued after the Project closed. SADP facilitated the purchase of three graders for
the Project areas until permanent arrangements for road maintenance are put in place.




                                                ii
                    Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP)

            Progress Report on the Implementation of Management Action Plan


                                      I. INTRODUCTION

1.     The Project. In 2007, the World Bank approved an IDA Specific Investment Credit of
US$27.5 million equivalent for the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) Smallholder
Agriculture Development Project (SADP), which aimed to improve community participation in
local development while increasing revenue flow from the already established local palm oil
production industry.

2.     The original Project had three components: (a) smallholder productivity enhancement
including: infill planting of new smallholder village oil palm along existing access roads;
upgrading of provincial access roads and establishment of sustainable financing for road
maintenance; and strengthening of oil palm extension services; (b) local governance and
community participation, to support the improved provision of local services and infrastructure
through participatory processes; and (c) project management and institutional support for the Oil
Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC), the implementing agency, and for the smallholder sector,
through training, research and studies.

3.      The Project became effective in January 2009. Due to a long delay in establishing Project
management capacity, implementation did not begin until 2010. In June 2012, the Project was
restructured. Under the restructuring, the closing date for the Project was extended by one year to
December 31, 2013 and the scope of the Project was scaled back. The reduction in the scope was
needed due to the implementation delays, the strong appreciation of the PNG Kina since Project
approval, the increase in local construction costs, and the Government’s request for a revision in
IDA’s financing to cover 100 percent of all eligible expenditures inclusive of taxes in eligible
disbursement categories.

4.       The reduction in the scope consisted in the following: (a) 190 km of road rehabilitation
compared to the original Project design’s target to upgrade 550 km of existing provincial access
roads serving the oil palm catchment area; (b) 13 km of road reconstruction for “incomplete
roads” in Oro Province, compared to 105 km in the original design; Oro Province incomplete
roads were to be financed by PNG Sustainable Development Program Ltd; (c) 2,500 hectares of
infill planting of smallholder oil palm, compared to the original target of 9,000 ha of oil palm
that were to be established on vacant blocks of village land along existing access roads (infill
planting) within the area already covered by existing oil palm infrastructure; and (d) cancellation
of the pilot component on Local Governance and Community Participation (Component 2) from
the Project due to OPIC’s capacity limitations and difficulties in recruiting management
consultants to implement the component; efforts were instead put on the road works, infill
planting and improvements in extension service delivery.



                                                1
5.    Current Status of Project. The Project closed on December 31, 2013. An Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICR) was prepared and filed on June 30, 2014 (IDA-437401).
Key Project results are presented in the ICR and summarized as follows:

   •   Increase in Smallholder Income from Oil Palm Production: Smallholder income
       increased from PGK75.1 million in July 2006 to PGK125.4 million when the Project
       closed in 2013. Although this is 30 percent higher than the end of Project objective of
       PGK96.1 million, only part of this achievement can be attributed to the Project,
       particularly the milling companies’ efforts in increasing smallholder productivity,
       facilitating fertilizer distribution and ensuring regular Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) pick-up. It
       is also partly due to the rehabilitation of the smallholder road network carried out under
       the Project from mid-2012. A large part of the income increase was, however, attributable
       to higher palm oil prices.

   •   Road Rehabilitation. The road rehabilitation and reconstruction is now completed under
       the Project. As of January 2014, a total of 238.54 km of roads were upgraded, including
       223.7 km of rehabilitation or spot repairs (more than the revised target of 190 km), and
       15.44 km of reconstruction of the Oro Province incomplete roads (more than the revised
       target of 13 km).

   •   Roadside Maintenance. A program of roadside maintenance by community groups has
       been implemented with 50 contracts (covering 120 km) awarded in the three Project
       areas.

   •   Road Maintenance Trust Fund. The RMTF study has been completed and was accepted
       by OPIC in November 2013. The implementation of the recommendations, as envisaged
       in the study, is yet to be started. The study called for the growers, the milling companies
       and the Government of PNG (GoPNG) to contribute to the RMTF at the rate of 5, 15 and
       80 percent, respectively, of the annual maintenance costs, estimated at PGK50 million.
       The study also called for the GoPNG to provide the PGK60 million to finance the full
       cost of the one-time road rehabilitation. In the meantime, the Project facilitated the
       purchase of three graders for each Project area to facilitate road maintenance until
       permanent arrangements for road maintenance are put in place.

   •   Infill Program. A little over one thousand (1,006) hectares of new infill planting of oil
       palm was achieved by May 2014, representing only about 40 percent of the revised target
       of 2,500 hectares. As discussed in the first progress report, the reduction in the scope of
       planting was due to the unavailability of seedling supply from the milling companies and
       OPIC’s weak capacity and inability to adhere to its implementation schedule.

   •   Training Growers in Sustainable Production Practices. The Project financed the
       development of a strategy for strengthening OPIC’s extension services, but the strategy
       was not implemented for lack of support from milling companies. Despite this, important
       investments were made to upgrade OPIC’s extension delivery by increasing the number
       of extension officers (28 new extension staff plus an internationally recruited Extension
       Specialist were hired under the Project), by improving the mobility of extension officers
                                                2
       (through the purchase of new vehicles and motorcycles), through extensive training for
       OPIC staff and growers associations, and through communications upgrades (for example
       through the mobile phone closed user group setup in Hoskins).

   •   Environmental and Social Safeguards. Two environmental and social audits, the effluent
       baseline and follow-up audits, which were required as part of the Effluent Action Plan,
       were completed and reported on in the first progress report. Since that report, a second
       follow-up audit has been completed, with results pointing to an overall compliance with
       PNG regulations. The update of the Environmental Code of Practice for the Oil Palm
       Processing Industry (also part of the Effluent Action Plan) has been completed. The
       SADP water quality monitoring program has been implemented and a smallholder
       engagement strategy prepared.


Summary of the Panel Process, Panel Findings and Management Response

6.      The Inspection Panel (IPN) registered a Request for Inspection (IPN Request RQ09/10)
for the SADP on December 17, 2009. The summary of the Panel Process, Panel Findings and
Management Response is as follows:

 December 17, 2009:    Inspection Panel (IPN) registered a Request for Inspection
   February 7, 2010:   Management submitted its Management Response
    March 10, 2010:    The Panel issued its eligibility report and recommended investigation
    March 25, 2010:    The Board of Executive Directors approved the Inspection Panel’s
                       recommendation to carry out an investigation of the alleged instances of
                       harm from noncompliance
September 19, 2011:    The Panel issued its Investigation Report outlining the findings of the
                       investigation to the Board
   October 31, 2011:   Bank Management submitted its Response along with a detailed
                       Management Action Plan (MAP), in response to the Panel’s findings
 December 13, 2011:    The Board of Directors approved the MAP, which committed to actions
                       in three key areas: (a) information disclosure, consultation and broad
                       community support; (b) environment; and (c) institutional sustainability
   January 28, 2014:   Distribution to the Board of the First Progress Report on the
                       Implementation of the MAP

Panel Investigation Report and Management Response

7.       Panel Report. As major Project activities had not yet been started on the ground at the
time of the Inspection, the Panel primarily focused on the design, planning and appraisal phases
of the Project. The Panel found areas of compliance and areas of non-compliance, as discussed in
the first progress report. These relate to: (a) Information Disclosure, Consultation, and Broad
Community Support; (b) Poverty and Livelihood Impacts; (c) Environmental Impacts; and (d)
Institutional Sustainability. Management’s response is detailed in the section below on the MAP.


                                               3
                                    II. MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

8.     Management Action Plan Description. The MAP committed to: (a) assisting OPIC in
developing a Consultation Framework and ensuring that it was implemented across the three
Project areas; (b) continuing to support OPIC in improving the documentation of consultations
during implementation; (c) continuing to closely support and monitor the implementation of the
Effluent Action Plan; and (d) verifying that adequate consultations were conducted and
documented as part of the RMTF study and that the proposed amount of the levy, if any, would
not constitute an unsustainable financial burden on the smallholders.

9.      Summary of Previous Progress. Progress made in the first progress report covering the
period January 2012 to September 2013 is summarized in the paragraphs 10 to 13.

Information Disclosure, Consultation and Broad Community Support

10.    Development and implementation of a consultation framework. The Oil Palm Industry
Corporation (OPIC) prepared (with Bank support) and has been implementing a Consultation
Framework for all major Project activities. Between May 2011 and May 2013 alone, close to
5,000 participants attended the consultations on road rehabilitation and maintenance, a fact
confirmed by Bank missions. Free, prior and informed consultations that were culturally
appropriate were undertaken for infill planting and road works.

11.     Documentation of consultations. OPIC has endeavored to systematically document and
file records of consultations. These records have been made available to the Bank. Both the
independent environmental and social audits and recent implementation support missions have
identified the need for further improvements in the documentation of these consultations.

Environment

12.     Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) Action Plan. OPIC recruited consultants to prepare an
effluent baseline study for the Project area palm oil mills, which was finalized in July 2011 1 and
publicly disclosed by OPIC. The follow-up effluent audit was completed in February 2013 and
the report was publicly disclosed by OPIC. The audit concluded that “overall, the palm oil mill
effluent systems across all mills were operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory compliance
is achieved at each mill most of the time.” A number of actions and mitigations measures were
agreed with and were under implementation by the relevant milling companies as a result of the
study and audit. Most actions were on track toward completion as planned, and it was expected
that OPIC would monitor and update on their implementation until Project closed on December
31, 2013. The overall implementation status of these actions was to be documented in the final
progress report. In addition, the Department of Environment and Conservation was completing
the update the PNG Code of Practice for Palm Oil Processing. The Bank commented on the
Terms of Reference and draft reports and participated in stakeholder consultations held in May
2012.


1
    The first Progress Report mistakenly indicated that the effluent baseline was completed in April 2013.
                                                            4
Institutional Sustainability

13.     Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF) Consultations. OPIC recruited consultants to
undertake the RMTF study, who began work in early 2012 and held consultations across the
three Project areas, which are documented in the study’s Inception Report. A draft report on the
RMTF design was prepared and findings from the first phase of work on the design were shared
with stakeholders prior to the second round of consultations, which was completed in June 2013.
A final design report was shared with the Bank in October 2013 and is now publicly disclosed by
the PNG Institute of National Affairs.



  III. PROGRESS ON MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION SINCE
                     THE LAST PROGRESS REPORT

Information Disclosure, Consultation and Broad Community Support

14.     Development and Implementation of a Consultation Framework. In the first progress
report, it was reported that OPIC prepared a Consultation Framework and has been implementing
the framework for all major Project activities, such as the infill planting and road works. The
framework was also used to collect views of farmers and milling companies on the conditions
under which an RMTF could be set up and operationalized in a sustainable manner. Additional
infill planting activities conducted since the first progress report have continued to use the
Framework. For example, although SADP closed on December 31, 2014, the Bialla Project area
approved Plantation Approval Forms for 214 hectares in infill planting for 2014. By October
2014, 76 hectares have already been planted with credit facility provided through the mills.

15.    Documentation of Consultations. OPIC has continued to support smallholder farmers
and held consultations as part of the infill program. The quality of the documentation has also
continued to improve, and the continued use of plantation approval forms by OPIC field offices
is encouraging. The sustainability of these achievements will depend on improved overall
management of OPIC and stronger oversight from the Department of Agriculture and Livestock
(DAL).

Environment

16.     Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) Action Plan. An effluent baseline was established for
all mills in the Project area in July 2011 and two follow-up effluent audits were completed in
February 2013 and December 2013. The first progress report summarized the key findings from
the February 2013 effluent follow-up audit, and these have been confirmed in the final
(December 2013) audit report which upheld the conclusion that overall POME systems were
operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory compliance is achieved at each mill most of the
time. Altogether, eight actions were recommended in the baseline assessment and February 2013
follow-up audit. Since the last progress report, the implementation status of the eight actions has
been comprehensively established (in the December 2013 audit), and the result is as follows:

                                                5
seven are fully completed; and the remaining action is no longer relevant because of the planned
closure of the mill.

                          Table 1: Palm Oil Mill Effluent Action Plan

Recommended Action/Mitigation Measure           Implementation Status
1. Measure inflow and outflow of treatment      Implemented: All operational land application
ponds                                           mills are now measuring inflow and outflow.


2. Improve treatment pond effectiveness at      Implemented: Sangara mill implemented
Sangara mill                                    measures to improve treatment pond
                                                effectiveness.
3. Ensure irrigation trenches are operational   No longer relevant: Sumberipa mill is expected
at Sumberipa mill                               to be shut down in near future.
4. Commence regular sampling of raw             Implemented: Raw effluent sampling was
effluent (influent) quality                     undertaken at all mills – Biochemical Oxygen
                                                Demand (BOD) analyzed at Higaturu Oil Palm
                                                Ltd mills but not at New Britain Palm Oil Ltd
                                                mills where Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)
                                                was measured instead.
5. Improve Navo mill treatment pond             Implemented: Irrigation area was expanded;
effectiveness                                   drainage furrows were built to facilitate
                                                separation of water from solid wastes. Solid
                                                wastes are recycled as topsoil for nurseries
                                                producing oil palm seedlings.
6. Improve quality of effluent discharged       Implemented: New Standard Operating
from Numundo mill                               Procedure developed and implemented.
7. Investigate spikes in BOD levels at          Implemented: Investigations undertaken and
Kumbango Environmental Impact Point             continuing; treatment ponds desilted; BOD
(EIP)                                           spikes still occurring.
8. Assess the continued requirement and         Implemented: De-silting frequency assessed –
frequency of de-silting works at Hargy mill     requirement for more frequent de-silting than
                                                originally planned.

Institutional

17.    Road Maintenance Trust Fund Consultations (RMTF) Consultations. Since the first
progress report, the final RMTF report was accepted by OPIC in November 2013. The report
made recommendations for smallholder farmers, milling companies and the GoPNG to
contribute to the RMTF. The proposed levels of contributions to the fund are to be formally
endorsed by all parties involved. The study proposed that the GoPNG contribute the full cost of
                                               6
the one-time road rehabilitation (PGK60 million) and 80 percent of the annual maintenance cost
of PGK50 million. The remaining 20 percent would be covered by the mills (15 percent) and the
growers (5 percent). The RMTF is still to be implemented as designed, although some road
maintenance activities continued after the Project closed in December 2013. SADP facilitated the
purchase of three graders, one for each Project area, to support road upkeep until permanent
arrangements for road maintenance are put in place.

Institutionalizing the Road Maintenance Trust Fund.

18.     There is a need to institutionalize the RMTF. Without this, there is a potential risk that
the pickup and transport of FFB to the mills will be affected. The interim arrangement to
purchase one grader for each of the Project areas is useful. The RMTF remains one of the most
effective instruments to develop a systematic approach to road maintenance. Institutionalizing
the RMTF would require the GoPNG to commit an estimated one-time investment of PGK60
million to rehabilitate the degraded road network in the oil palm areas, in addition to contributing
80 percent of the estimated annual maintenance cost of PGK50 million. Over the next 5 years the
total requirement from GoPNG would be PGK260 million, which needs to be reflected in
Government budget priorities. No further action is expected from the WBG regarding the
establishment of the RMTF, but the Group will remain interested in this trust fund as part of its
ongoing policy dialogue with the Government.

Overview Matrix on Overall Implementation Status

19.   All MAP items have now been completed. The consolidated progress on all items in the
MAP since the last progress report in shown in Appendix 1.

Implementation of Items from Annex 1

20.     In addition to reporting on the progress on the MAP, Management also agreed to report
back on items detailed in Annex 1 of the Management Response. Annex 1 items did not relate to
findings of noncompliance and harm, but sought to improve overall Project implementation.
Table 3 below is an update of the activities set out in Annex 1 that have been completed in this
reporting period.

                           Table 2: Annex 1 Action Implementation

           ACTION                                             STATUS
Item 2: Gathering of Baseline       Completed. A baseline study was completed for the
Information                         Project, as reported earlier.
Item 3: Identification of Project   Completed. As indicated above and in the first progress
Stakeholders and Elaboration of     report, OPIC prepared a Consultation Framework and is
a Consultation Process with         implementing it. The continued use and improvement of
Indigenous Peoples                  the Framework will require good OPIC leadership and
                                    effective oversight from the DAL.


                                                 7
Item 5: Identification of         Completed. OPIC is now systematically documenting
Measures to Avoid Adverse         consultations. As reported above and in the first progress
Effects and Ensure that           report, minutes of the consultations have been reviewed by
Indigenous People Receive         implementation support missions and areas for
Culturally Appropriate Benefits   improvement have been identified and discussed with
                                  OPIC. Consultations instruments have been developed and
                                  OPIC should continue using and improving them to ensure
                                  inclusiveness of its actions.
Item 7: Consultation with         Completed. OPIC’s consultations during implementation
Customary Leaders                 have continued to involve clan leaders and this has been
                                  documented. This is a good practice that OPIC needs to
                                  perpetuate.
Item 8: Sharing of Information    Completed. OPIC continued to share information in an
in Appropriate Form and           appropriate form and language. For example, participants
Language                          in the second round of RMTF consultations received a Tok
                                  Pisin summary of the draft findings of the study. OPIC will
                                  need to maintain strong management and secure resources
                                  to preserve this good practice.
Item 12: Improving                Completed. As presented in the first progress report,
Livelihoods: Savings and          workshops on income generation opportunities were
Income Diversification            conducted by the SADP Extension Specialist. As an
                                  outcome of this workshop, an Income Generating Projects
                                  Committee was established in Oro Province with
                                  representation from the growers, the provincial
                                  government, financial institutions, community
                                  organizations, churches and NGOs. One of the objectives
                                  of the committee is to help link growers with other
                                  opportunities available in the province.
Item 16: Chemical and             Completed. Management committed to continue to closely
Biological Pollution of           support and monitor the implementation of the Effluent
Waterways                         Action Plan. As elaborated above, progress has been made
                                  on implementing the Plan. In addition, the SADP
                                  supported the PNG Oil Palm Research Association to
                                  establish an arthropod indicator survey for tracking
                                  changes in water quality over time. The arthropod survey
                                  for stream health monitoring methodology used water
                                  quality metrics computed from survey data on aquatic
                                  invertebrate assemblages on selected sites. Protocols for
                                  stream assessment have been prepared and related training
                                  was conducted in the three Project areas. The capacity
                                  created would need to be maintained and further
                                  developed. The Department of Environment and
                                  Conservation has updated the PNG Code of Practice for
                                  Palm Oil Processing, and should also ensure effective
                                  monitoring of the pollution of waterways.
                                               8
Item 17: Risk of Deforestation    Completed. As reported in the first progress report, two
of High Conservation Value        independent environmental and social audits have been
Forests                           completed. The audits did not find evidence of destruction
                                  of primary forests or high conservation value forests as a
                                  result of infill planting. Remote sensing work was
                                  completed on land use and forest cover change for Oro by
                                  the European Space Agency. Forest Cover Change maps of
                                  the period between 2005 and 2011 indicate that no primary
                                  forest was cleared for oil palm plantation expansion in Oro
                                  after 2005, which is in compliance with the requirements
                                  of the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).
                                  Independent from the now-closed SADP, PNG continues
                                  to be at risk of palm oil related deforestation, but the risk
                                  could be mitigated through better enforcement of forestry
                                  regulations and through voluntary RSPO certification of
                                  the production.
Item 18: Institutionalizing the   Ongoing. As elaborated above and in the first progress
Road Maintenance Trust Fund       report, as required by the MAP, the Bank has verified that
(RMTF)                            adequate consultations have been conducted as part of the
                                  RMTF study. OPIC has purchased three graders as an
                                  interim arrangement for carrying out routine maintenance
                                  on smallholder roads that are in good or fair condition,
                                  until such time as the RMTF becomes operational. The
                                  GoPNG will need to provide the PGK60 million needed
                                  for a one-time rehabilitation of the road network in the
                                  three Project areas. The milling companies and smallholder
                                  growers, along with the GoPNG, will need to provide their
                                  respective shares of the estimated PGK50 million required
                                  for the fund to finance the annual cost of maintenance. The
                                  SADP helped define the RMTF instrument but its
                                  implementation will require ongoing OPIC and DAL
                                  leadership.


                                      IV. NEXT STEPS

Upcoming Issues/Developments Relevant to the MAP

21.     The Project closed on December 31, 2013. Management will endeavor to support PNG in
strengthening its institutions through current country engagement. A Country Situational
Analysis (CSA) outlining the World Bank Group strategy for reengagement in the PNG palm oil
sector is currently being finalized. The CSA takes into account lessons learned from SADP
implementation, including the Panel’s compliance audit.



                                               9
Annex 1: Overview Matrix on Overall Implementation Process of the MAP

        ACTION                                                     STATUS
Management will assist             Completed. OPIC prepared a Consultation Framework which has
OPIC in developing a               guided consultations during implementation. All consultations held
Consultation Framework             during implementation on key Project activities, including those on
and ensuring that it is            the road rehabilitation works and on the RMTF, have largely
implemented across the             complied with the Framework. Details were provided in the first
three Project areas                progress report.
Management will                    Completed. The Bank implementation support missions reviewed
continue to support OPIC           and provided guidance to further improve the documentation on
in improving the                   consultations provided by OPIC. A copy of the documentation,
documentation of                   including signed meeting attendance sheets, is also available in an
consultations during               electronic format with OPIC Headquarter and field offices. OPIC
implementation                     has continued to improve its documentation of consultations, which
                                   have been used as part of the infill program, even after the Project
                                   closed in December 2013. The quality of the documentation during
                                   Project implementation was moderately satisfactory. OPIC should
                                   continue its commitment to preserve its current achievements and
                                   ensure a consistent and systematic documentation on its
                                   consultations.
Management will                    Completed. The first progress report presented the actions that OPIC
continue to closely                undertook (with the Bank support) to commission an effluent
support and monitor the            baseline study and follow-up audits. There were seven
implementation of the              recommended actions from the baseline study, and a further one
Effluent Action Plan               recommended action from the follow-up assessment, making it a
                                   total of eight actions 2. The Bank encouraged OPIC to request a final
                                   audit of the mills in December 2013, the key findings of which are
                                   summarized above in Table 1. Out of the eight actions, seven are
                                   fully completed; and the remaining action is no longer relevant
                                   because of the planned closure of the mill.
Management will verify             Completed. The first progress report summarized major steps of the
that adequate                      RMTF study, which was conducted by consultants recruited by
consultations are                  OPIC. As part of the study, a number of consultations were held
conducted as part of the           across the three Project areas, and this has been documented in the
RMTF study and that the            first progress report. The final report was accepted by OPIC in
proposed amount of the             November 2013. The RMTF study estimated that it will cost PGK60
levy, if any, would not            million to complete a one-time rehabilitation of the road network in
constitute an                      the three Project areas. The annual cost of maintenance following
unsustainable financial            the rehabilitation was estimated at PGK50 million.
burden to the                      Based on the consultations with growers and milling companies, the
smallholders                       study recommended that the GoPNG pay for 80 percent of the


2
 In total, nine actions were listed in the follow-up report, but one of these actions is repetitive, making it a total of
eight actions.
                                                            10
annual maintenance cost, with the palm oil milling companies
contributing 15 percent and the remaining 5 percent being
contributed by the growers. The 5% contribution is broadly accepted
among smallholders and is not expected to exert an unsustainable
financial burden on them. It is, however, important that smallholders
have effective access to good roads which will translate into
additional harvest income, and which will more than offset the 5%
contribution to the RMTF. As for the milling companies, they have
conditioned their contributions to a RMTF on the GoPNG agreeing
to, and completing, the full rehabilitation of the oil palm road
network.

The RMTF is still to be implemented as designed, although some
road maintenance activities continued after the Project closed. As
part of transition road maintenance arrangements, the SADP
facilitated the purchase of one grader for each Project site to
facilitate road maintenance until the RMTF is institutionalized. The
RMTF provided the basis for a Public Investment Project (PIP)
submission for PGK70 million in the 2014 budget, of which only
PGK10.2 million was allocated. One grader was fully paid before
the SADP closed and the PIP funding was partly used toward paying
the outstanding balance for the two remaining graders.




                   11
