                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00002821



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-437401)



                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.7 MILLION
                            (US$27.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                    INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                            FOR A

              SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                         June 29, 2014




Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea &
the Pacific Islands Country Department
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 31, 2014)

                              Currency Unit = PGK (Kina)
                                 US$1.00 = PGK2.20

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AusAID     Australian Agency for International Development
BA         Beneficiaries Assessment
BPF        Beneficiaries Participation Framework
CBO        Community-based Organization
CDD        Community Driven Development
CELCOR     Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights
CLUA       Clan Land Users Agreement
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CSTB       Central Supply and Tender Board
DOW        Department of Works
EA         Environmental Assessment
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
FCP        Forestry Conservation Project
FFB        Fresh Fruit Bunch
FM         Financial Management
GDP        Growth Domestic Product
GoPNG      Government of Papua New Guinea
GRM        Grievance Redress Mechanism
ha         hectare
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
ISR        Implementation Status Report
IT         Information Technology
LCT        Local Coordination Teams (LCT)
LLG        Local-level Government
LLI        Local-level Institution
LPC        Local Planning Committee
LSS        Land Settlement Schemes
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS        Management Information System
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MTDS       Medium-Term Development Strategy (2005–2010)
MTR        Mid Term Review
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
OPIC       Oil Palm Industry Corporation

                                                                                 ii
OPID      Oil Palm Infrastructure Development Unit
OSOPDP    Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project
PAF       Plantation Approval Form
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PNG       Papua New Guinea
PNGOPRA   PNG Oil Palm Research Association
PNGSDP    PNG Sustainable Development Program
PPII      Provincial Performance Improvement Initiative
PSC       Project Steering Committee
REU       Road Engineers Unit
RMTF      Road Maintenance Trust Fund
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
RSPO      Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil
SA        Social Assessment
SADP      Smallholder Agriculture Development Project
VOP       Village Oil Palm
WNB       West New Britain




                           Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                         Country Director: Franz Drees-Gross
                          Sector Director: John A. Roome
                         Country Manager Laura E. Bailey
                          Sector Manager: Michel Kerf
                     Project Team Leader: Kofi Nouve
                        ICR Team Leader: Kofi Nouve
                     ICR Primary Author: Sati Achath



                                                                  iii
                       INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                   SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS

A. Basic Information....................................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................. viii
H. Restructuring ........................................................................................................................... viii
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................................. ix


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 30


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 49
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................... 51
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................... 52
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 55
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 63
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 64
MAP IBRD 35472 ........................................................................................................................ 65




                                                                                                                                                iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           PNG-Smallholder
Country:                 Papua New Guinea        Project Name:
                                                                           Agriculture Development
Project ID:              P079140                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43740
ICR Date:                06/30/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                     Borrower:                 GOPNG
Original Total
                         XDR 17.70M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 15.23M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 15.23M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 The Oil Palm Industry Corporation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/25/2003    Effectiveness:              01/28/2009          01/28/2009
                                                                                      06/13/2012
Appraisal:              02/23/2007    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                      11/14/2013
Approval:               12/18/2007    Mid-term Review:            09/20/2010          10/07/2010
                                      Closing:                    12/31/2012          12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                            Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                                                                    v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                  Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                             Yes                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                              None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                         8                       8
Crops                                                                      21                      21
Other social services                                                       3                       3
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                   66                      66
Sub-national government administration                                      2                       2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Participation and civic engagement                                          33                     33
Rural services and infrastructure                                           67                     67

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                    James W. Adams
Country Director:            Franz R. Drees-Gross                    Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:              Michel Kerf                             Rahul Raturi
Project Team Leader:         Kofi Nouve                              Oliver Braedt
ICR Team Leader:             Kofi Nouve
ICR Primary Author:          Sati Achath


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project was to increase, in a sustainable manner, the level of
involvement of targeted communities in their local development through measures aimed at
increasing oil palm revenue and local participation.



                                                                                                        vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                    approval                            Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                  documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in smallholder income from oil palm production (Kina)
                                                                                     K287.5 million in
Value
                                                                                     2011, K193.0 million
quantitative or   K75.1 million                 K96 million
                                                                                     in 2012, and K125.4
Qualitative)
                                                                                     million in 2013
Date achieved     07/14/2006                    12/31/2012                           12/31/2013
Comments          The result is achieved at more than 100% for all three years. Even in 2013 when total
(incl. %          small holder income from oil palm production was lower, the target was surpassed at
achievement)      131%.
                  Increase in the level of funds and resources invested by local communities to their local
Indicator 2 :
                  development
Value                                           To be determined
                  Baseline was not                                                   Component was
quantitative or                                 after baseline results
                  established                                                        dropped
Qualitative)                                    are available
Date achieved     05/24/2010                    12/31/2012                           06/13/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Component was dropped
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                   Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                           Revised Target
                                                    approval                            Completion or
                                                                    Values
                                                   documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in smallholder yields (Tons/hectare)
Value
(quantitative     15.2t/ha                     15-19%increase       None             23.37t/ha
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/14/2006                   12/31/2012           09/28/2012       12/31/2013
Comments
                  The target is surpassed with 54% yield increase with respect to the baseline, against an
(incl. %
                  expected 15-19% increase.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Kilometers of road rehabilitated/upgraded (Kilometers)
Value
(quantitative     0                            550 km               190.0 km         223.1 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/15/2007                  12/31/2012          09/28/2012       12/31/2013
Comments          Upgrading of roads serving oil palm catchment areas. While the achievement represents

                                                                                                        vii
(incl. %          only 40% of the original target (550 km), it has surpassed the revised, post-
achievement)      restructuring, target by 117%
Indicator 3 :     Social and Environmental Audits Completed (Audit Report)
Value
                                               2nd Audit Report                       2nd and 3rd Audit
(quantitative     0
                                               Completed                              Report Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/14/2006                   12/31/2013                             12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          3 audit reports completed, against the target of 2. Percentage achieved is 150%.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of growers trained in sustainable production practices (Numbers)
Value
(quantitative     0                                                  1500             1500
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/14/2006                                          09/28/2012       12/31/2013
Comments          There was no original target as this indicator was only introduced at the time of
(incl. %          restructuring in order to incorporate a core sector indicator. The target of 1,500 is
achievement)      achieved at 100%.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                             IP
          Archived                                                              (USD millions)
  1      03/01/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2      05/14/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3      11/12/2009      Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.74
  4      06/28/2010      Moderately Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                     0.89
  5      06/22/2011      Moderately Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                     1.05
  6      01/03/2012      Moderately Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                     3.65
  7      09/28/2012      Moderately Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                     8.37
  8      05/15/2013      Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory             14.22
  9      12/30/2013      Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory             22.26


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP in USD millions
                                                         The restructuring (i) modified a
                                                         number of key performance
                                                         indicators in the results framework
  06/13/2012                 MU      U           4.61    to reflect the changes to the scope
                                                         of the project; (ii) revised total
                                                         project costs; (iii) reallocated
                                                         credit proceeds among

                                                                                                          viii
                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           disbursement categories; and (iv)
                                                           extended project closing date by
                                                           one year to December 31, 2013.
                                                           The restructuring reallocated credit
  11/14/2013                 MU      MU          20.77     proceeds among disbursement
                                                           categories




I. Disbursement Profile




                                                                                             ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: At the time of project appraisal in 2007, the agricultural sector
of Papua New Guinea (PNG) contributed one-quarter of the country’s gross domestic product
(GDP). In the rural sector, incomes and living standards were generally low. Although incomes
were higher in the oil palm growing areas compared to other rural areas in the rest of the country,
smallholder oil palm productivity was below potential. The oil palm sub-sector operated under a
nucleus estate system, and was characterized by a close relationship among the following four
entities: (a) palm oil milling companies with oil palm plantations and palm oil production and
export marketing facilities; (b) smallholder oil palm producers who produced on 2–6 hectare (ha)
oil palm blocks; (c) Oil Palm Industry Corporation 1 (OPIC) which provided extension and
technical advice to smallholders; and (d) PNG Oil Palm Research Association (PNGOPRA). A
significant part of total production (38 percent) was provided by smallholder oil palm growers.

A major issue in rural communities was the low level of services. While communities directly
located in oil palm growing areas could count on some support from OPIC and the palm oil
milling companies, rural communities in general were not adequately supported by services from
their local-level institutions (LLIs). Major problems existed largely because of: (a) the
centralized supply-driven approach to local development, which inhibited community
development programs in providing proper services; and (b) a lack of locally generated revenues
to provide public services at the local level. Increasing both the production and productivity of
oil palm and an improvement in community services delivery from local level governments was
required to increase the living standards of rural communities in oil palm-growing provinces.

Project Background: The Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP) intended to
make operational the Government of PNG’s Medium Term Development Strategy (MTDS) by:
(a) supporting interventions that would increase and sustain agricultural output and productivity
in the smallholder oil palm sector, thereby enhancing smallholder incomes, palm oil production
and palm oil exports; and (b) supporting the development and demonstration of sustainable
mechanisms to support local governance, promote participatory planning, and promote local
accountability at the community level in both oil palm and non-oil palm communities in oil palm
producing provinces.

To address the needs of rural communities in the project areas, the project aimed to support a
multi-sectoral component based on the community-driven development (CDD) approach that
would work through the decentralized local governance framework. This approach would enable
the project to demonstrate efficient mechanisms to tackle some priority issues affecting rural
areas, particularly those related to past weaknesses associated with a centralized, supply-driven
approach to local development.



1
  The Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC) is a statutory body established under the Oil Palm Industry Act 1992 to
provide extension services to the Oil Palm smallholders of PNG.

                                                                                                                1
Rationale for Bank Involvement: Project design and implementation would benefit from the
long association of the World Bank Group with the oil palm sub-sector and its stakeholders,
which started in the late 1960s and continued until the closing of the Oro Smallholder Oil Palm
Development Project (OSOPDP) in 2001. OSOPDP successfully demonstrated that there was a
strong demand by smallholders for participation in oil palm production because of the assured
regular cash income and enhanced road access. It also confirmed that smallholder output and
productivity could be substantially increased and that industry- and grower-funded support
service organizations set up under the project, such as OPIC, can be both effective and
sustainable.

The involvement of the Bank in the project would ensure that smallholders’ interests were fully
integrated into the design of the project that would take into consideration key lessons learned
from previous projects. Further, the Bank’s involvement in the project would ensure that the
design of the project drew on the lessons from numerous Bank-funded CDD projects globally
and the review of specific CDD experience in PNG.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the project was to increase, in a sustainable manner, the level of
involvement of targeted communities in their local development through measures aimed at
increasing oil palm revenue and local participation.

The key indicators were:
   • Increase in smallholder income from oil palm production
   • Increase in the level of funds and resources invested by local communities in their local
      development

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The objective was not revised. However, project indicators were revised following a project
restructuring which was carried out in June 2012 and became effective in September 2012 (see
details in Section 1.7).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of SADP were:

   •   Oil palm smallholder households: Village Oil Palm (VOP) and Land Settlement Scheme
       (LSS).
   •   Non-oil palm communities directly affected by the project.
   •   Local government institutions.
   •   Community-based organizations (CBOs).
   •   Non-government organizations (NGOs).
   •   Church groups.
   •   Oil palm organizations (e.g., OPIC, PNG OPRA and the oil palm grower associations).

                                                                                              2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of three components:

Component 1: Smallholder Productivity Enhancement (Total cost US$59.2 million). This
component was to support: (a) smallholder oil palm development; (b) road works; and (c)
agricultural extension. Some 9,000 ha of oil palm were to be established on vacant blocks of
village land along existing access roads (in-fill planting) within the area already covered by
existing oil palm infrastructure. The project was to finance land preparation, purchase of seedlings,
fertilizers, basic tools and other inputs provided to smallholders by the mills as suppliers’ credit.
About 550 km of existing provincial access roads serving the oil palm catchment area were to be
upgraded (reconstruction). The project was to finance construction and maintenance contracts and
the purchase of non-routine maintenance equipment. A Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF)
was to be established in each smallholder oil palm scheme, financed by smallholders, palm oil
milling companies and provincial governments. The existing oil palm extension and research
services were to be upgraded to generate and disseminate productivity improvements. The project
was also to finance technical assistance and training to support the management of oil palm
smallholdings during and after the project duration.

Component 2: Local Governance and Community Participation (Total cost US$3.1 million).
This pilot component was to support the improved provision of local services and infrastructure in
the two project provinces of Oro and WNB through participatory processes (CDD). While
increased oil palm income has boosted the demand for infrastructure and public services, Local
Level Governments (LLGs) have been unable to respond adequately not only because of
insufficient funding from government but also because of the poor allocation and management of
public expenditure. Community participation in the allocation process has been found to improve
the efficiency of local expenditures, and this component was to demonstrate proven but innovative
mechanisms for community participation in local development. The component was to finance
small community grants, technical assistance and training to LLGs and communities. The grants
were also to finance small- scale community infrastructure and services through sub-projects.

Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Support (Total cost US$6.5 million).
OPIC was to take overall responsibility for project management, coordination and performance of
the project components. Component 1 implementation was to be undertaken through OPIC and its
field offices with the support of the palm oil milling companies and PNGOPRA. Component 2 was
to be implemented by a management agency contracted by OPIC: (a) to set up Local Coordination
Teams (LCT) at provincial level; (b) to select and contract consultants and service providers to
carry out all capacity-building activities; (c) to carry out M&E activities for the component; and (d)
to transfer the grants and manage the grant accounts at the LLG levels, and to transfer funds for
sub-project activities to the Sub-project Implementation Teams’ (SITs) accounts at the LLGs’
request. Component 3 was to strengthen OPIC’s capacity to manage the project and to provide
extension to growers. OPIC was also to provide support to and coordinate with existing HIV/AIDS
awareness/prevention campaigns in the project areas. Environmental monitoring was to be
supported in close coordination with the Department of Environment and Conservation (DEC).




                                                                                                    3
1.6 Revised Components

At the time of project restructuring in September 2012, Component 2 was dropped. Several
reasons explained the decision to drop Component 2 on local governance and community
participation. Chief among those are OPIC’s capacity limitations and the delays in the other key
activities, namely road rehabilitation and infill planting. OPIC capacity issues have undermined
program implementation in many ways, but the main impact was the substantial delays in project
implementation. At the time of the first project restructuring (September 2012), it was deemed
that even if OPIC were to recruit the management agency to implement Component 2, it would
have already been too late to obtain a meaningful result under this Component before the
project’s revised closing date of December 31, 2013. Given the delays in other critical project
activities—road rehabilitation and infill planting—a decision was made that all project efforts
would be concentrated on these activities and on improving extension service delivery. Hence,
the upgrading of basic community infrastructure, to be achieved under Component 2, was not
included in the restructured Project.

1.7 Other significant changes

Project Restructuring. The project was restructured twice during implementation as summarized
below:

(i) First restructuring: A Level 2 restructuring of the project was carried out in June 2012 2 and
became effective in September 2012. It involved the following changes:

      (a) Results/Indicators: A number of key performance indicators in the results framework
      were modified to reflect changes to the scope of the project.

      (b) Components: The scope of several activities under Component 1 was scaled back due to
      a shortfall in funds arising from: (i) appreciation 3 of the PNG Kina vis-à-vis the US$; (ii) a
      sharp increase in local costs 4 ; and (iii) revision in the Bank financing share due to
      insufficient counterpart funding. Some activities such as infill planting were also scaled
      back because of the delayed start of these activities and the possibility of not implementing
      the full infill program originally planned for during the remaining project implementation
      period.

      Accordingly, the revised target for infill planting by the revised project closing date was
      changed to 2,500 hectares. The scope of road rehabilitation/upgrading was also


2
  Between the Midterm Review in September 2010 and the first restructuring in June 2012 was marked by delays
getting the request from Treasury to Bank. The processing was further delayed because of non-compliance with loan
covenants (overdue OPIC audits).
3
  Based on the World Development Indicators, the PGK/$US exchange rate was 2.97 when the project was
appraised in 2007; at the time of project structuring in 2012, the exchange rate appreciated by 30% to 2.08. At the
same time, cumulative inflation was 34.4% between 2008 and 2012, with an annual average of 6.9%. This means
that on average, the available amount in Kina was 30% less, whereas prices increased by 34%, compared to
appraisal estimates.
4
  See previous footnote.

                                                                                                                 4
     significantly scaled back from the target of 550 km to 190 km of existing provincial access
     roads serving the oil palm catchment area (including spot repairs and drainage
     improvements) plus 14 km of incomplete roads in Oro.

     In addition, Component 2 on Local Governance and Community Participation, aimed to
     support the improved provision of local services and infrastructure, using a pilot CCD
     program in the provinces of Oro and West New Britain. This component represented a
     mere 4.5% (US$3.1 million) of the total project cost (US$68.8 million), and the project has
     continued to support local participation through other components. As a consequence, the
     drop of Component 2 did not require a change in the PDO.

     (c) Financing: The revised project cost was estimated to be US$40.2 million. The reduction
     in total project cost reflected the fact that the Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF)
     concept would not be implemented within the remaining project timeframe. Under the
     original project design, the West New Britain and Oro Provincial Governments, together
     with the palm oil milling companies and project area smallholders, were to contribute US$
     23.7 million to the RMTFs. Under the revised scope of the project, it was recognized that
     while the RMTF study would be completed by the extended closing date, the
     recommendations of the study, i.e., the establishment of RMTFs, could only be
     implemented after the project period. The PNG Sustainable Development Program
     (PNGSDP) contribution to project was also reduced by about US$3 million, reflecting the
     reduced scope of the infill planting program.

     (d) Reallocations: The credit amount was reallocated among disbursement categories.

     (e) Project Schedule: The closing date of the project was extended by one year from
     December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013 to allow sufficient time for completion of
     planned road works and implementation of the infill planting program and extension
     activities.
(ii) Second restructuring. A second Level 2 restructuring was carried out in November 2013 for
a reallocation of the credit among disbursement categories to strengthen road maintenance
capacities in the project areas through the procurement of three graders, one for each project
area. The graders were intended to be used to maintain, on an annual basis, the parts of the
smallholder road networks that are in fair or good condition. The purchase of graders increased
expenditures of the ‘Goods’ category. This increase was financed by reallocating expenditures
from the ‘Consulting Services and Training’ category, which had unspent funds. All three
graders have been purchased and received at the three project sites.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project processing was delayed because of the long suspension of the Bank-funded Forestry
Conservation Project (FCP) in PNG (suspended from September 2003 until its subsequent
cancellation in June 2005). From August 2003 to September 2005, a number of Bank technical
visits took place for SADP and some technical background studies were commissioned.
                                                                                              5
However, the main preparation activities funded under the project’s PHRD project preparation
grant approved in February 2004 could not proceed as all project preparation activities in PNG
were put on hold during the suspension of FCP. Supervision and technical missions were
allowed to proceed. Full preparation effort resumed only after the 2005 Annual Meetings when
the official restart of project preparation was agreed with the Government of Papua New Guinea
(GoPNG).

Design and Quality at Entry

•   The project’s overall design was fairly simple and straightforward, except for the design and
    operation of a sustainable RMTF and Component 2 (Local Governance and Community
    Participation).
•   A Social Assessment (SA) report was prepared as part of the project preparation. This
    included a Beneficiaries Assessment (BA), a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and a
    Beneficiaries Participation Framework (BPF).
•   In 2007, as part of the development of SADP, an Environmental Assessment (EA) report was
    prepared, which the Environment Management Plan (EMP). These documents identified and
    helped manage potential environmental impacts of SADP.
•   The design included adequate measures to minimize and manage risks of deforestation,
    consistent with Bank policy requirements. The project also incorporated measures to avoid
    risks to critical habitats.
•   A thorough screening mechanism was put in place for infill planting under the project.
•   A number of alternatives were considered in arriving at the chosen design.

On the other hand:

•   For a country like PNG where existing communication and transportation facilities are weak,
    implementation was challenging. Project design overestimated OPIC’s capacity, which had
    declined during the years after the end of OSOPDP. More resources should have been
    allocated to strengthen OPIC management and implementation capacity.
•   There was inadequate due diligence on the palm oil mill effluent issue. Trying to resolve this
    issue during implementation was very complex as the milling companies felt that the Bank
    had changed the goal posts. Even though the Bank might have placed a bit too much faith in
    voluntary certification under the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) initiative,
    OPIC and the milling companies could have made more efforts to meet the Bank’s
    environmental safeguards requirements.

Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment. In 2008 QAG conducted a learning review for
PNG to help address outstanding quality concerns and to improve portfolio management. The
overall QAG findings were that the project reflected the type of operation that was appropriate
to, and essential for, fragile states of the Pacific Region. Specifically, the review highlighted that:
(a) there was good sector knowledge and prior implementation experience that the Bank’s
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) had rated as Satisfactory; (b) the project contained
important innovations in the form of the RMTF and a small but important CDD-type activity for
non-oil palm communities in the project area; and (c) project design also addressed three short-

                                                                                                     6
comings noted by the IEG review of the previous project, i.e., (i) road maintenance funding had
not been assured, (ii) fertilizer use was low and productivity was sub-optimal, and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems under the project were weak.

Soundness of background analysis. As part of project preparation, the sector background was
studied, main sector issues were analyzed in depth, and government strategies to deal with these
issues were considered. Project design took sector issues into account.

Lessons of previous project taken into account. The following lessons were incorporated into
the project design, which were derived from experience in OSOPDP and in the AusAID-funded
road maintenance program in Bougainville:
    • Strong, effective project management is necessary. To reduce the extent of coordination
        required, project design should minimize the number of executing units.
    • To maximize economic benefits and to maintain the confidence of smallholder growers,
        regular Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) collection from smallholders must be guaranteed.
        Provincial access roads will need to receive regular maintenance. In order to reduce the
        unit transportation cost of FFB supplied, oil palm development should be promoted and
        maximized in the areas that have practical access to the road network.
    • Well-coordinated and continuous infrastructure contracts and funding are required to
        encourage the continued presence of competent contractors in the provinces concerned.
    • For the CDD component, parallel structures, such as social funds should be considered
        only if the goal is to accelerate delivery of investment funds at the local level. To address
        systemic challenges of local governance, including accountability, transfer equity and
        local participation, direct support to local level institutions is paramount for durable
        change.
    • For local groups to develop a sense of ownership of their activities and as a pre-condition
        of sustainability, they should participate at both the planning stage and during
        implementation.
    • Project design must be flexible. Phased implementation should be preferred to permit
        learning and/or redesign.

Risk Assessment. The overall risk of the project was rated as Substantial in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). The ICR team agrees with this assessment. The PAD had identified several
potential risks and appropriate mitigation measures for them. At project completion, many of
these identified risks had materialized. These include, but are not limited to: (i) a decline in
commitment to the traditional PNG/OPIC smallholder oil palm model, although commitment
remained high overall for oil palm development in the country; (ii) no provision of resources to
capitalize the road maintenance trust fund; and (iii) delays in award of contracts through the
Central Suppliers and Tenders Board (CSTB). One important risk, the limited capacity of OPIC
to effectively implement project activities, was not adequately assessed, and this turned out to be
very costly for the project. In hindsight, the Bank should have included some conditionality
regarding the appointment of the OPIC Board. The other risk that was overlooked, and which
was equally detrimental to the project, was the withdrawal of support for the project by private




                                                                                                   7
milling companies. Mitigation measures should have been considered as management often
changes in private companies and there is no guarantee of continuing support. 5

Adequacy of participatory processes. Free, prior and informed consultations were undertaken
during project preparation and broad community support for the project existed in the three oil
palm growing areas targeted under the project. More than 550 people were directly consulted,
including oil palm smallholder households, non-oil palm households directly affected by the
project, local government representatives, community-based organizations (including women’s
and youth groups), NGOs, church groups and oil palm organizations (including oil palm growers
associations). Participants in the consultations were provided information on the project verbally
in Tok Pisin, other local languages and/or English, depending on the audience. On the other
hand, documentation of the consultation process in the Social Assessment should have been
more detailed and complete.

Adequacy of Government Commitment. While the project was approved by the Board on
December 18, 2007, the Legal Documents were only signed on July 9, 2008, and the Credit was
declared effective on January 28, 2009. The long delays between Board approval and Credit
effectiveness (about 14 months) were largely due to the difficult relationship between GoPNG
and the Bank following the cancellation of FCP. The slow clearance mechanisms within
GoPNG and the weak communication channels between the different government departments
were also factors of delay. Subsequent to credit effectiveness, the relationship between GoPNG
and the Bank continued to be difficult, hindering the timely resolution of implementation start-up
issues, such as the amendment of the Subsidiary Agreement between GoPNG and OPIC, and the
appointment of OPIC Board members.

Restructuring. As discussed earlier, the project was restructured, and project components scaled
down to reflect slow implementation progress and reduced project resources, due to strong
appreciation (by 30%) of the Kina and an escalation in costs between appraisal and the time of
the restructuring. Component 2 on local participation was dropped because of OPIC’s inability to
recruit a management agency to implement that component, and because the remaining Project
implementation time was too short to launch Component 2, which involved some CDD elements.

2.2 Implementation

As mentioned below, the project had to face several challenges during implementation. The
Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in September-October 2010 and assessed progress of
project components, implementation issues and the actions to be taken to ensure successful
completion of the project. Based on these discussions, the task team and OPIC revised the
implementation schedule for the period until the original closing date of December 31, 2012,
taking into account the long delay in project implementation start up.

Factors affecting implementation




5
    During project implementation there was a change in ownership of the milling operations in Oro province

                                                                                                              8
The MTR and regular implementation review missions identified the following main factors that
had affected project implementation:

(i) Inadequate counterpart funding and delays in provision of counterpart funding from the
inception of the project contributed to implementation delays and the reduction in the scope of
the project.

(ii) After the project became effective, there were significant delays in recruiting consultants for
key project management positions, purchasing key assets to support project management
operations, as well as getting implementation arrangements in place.

(iii) Project management capacity was weak mainly due to: (a) lack of adequate staff capacity at
the OPIC head office; (b) delayed recruitment of procurement advisors and several other
positions, including the extension specialist and road engineers due to procurement delays and
long delays in getting work permits and visas issued for consultants. Consequently, Project
Coordinator was forced to focus more on procurement and financial management rather than
overall coordination of project implementation; (c) prolonged delay in the recruitment of the
OPIC General Secretary by GoPNG. This was due to the OPIC Board not being operational
during the first few years of project implementation and resulted eventually in the OPIC
Financial Controller fulfilling the role of Acting General Secretary; (d) OPIC management’s lack
of ownership of the project and weak oversight by the OPIC Acting General Secretary and the
Project Coordinator; and (e) low motivation of OPIC field staff, partly due to low compensation
rates, which had not been adjusted for 10 years. This situation was exacerbated by high staff
turnover, death of the procurement advisor in 2012, and several SADP officers having to be fired
for misappropriating project assets or for non-performance.

(iv) Project implementation progress was extremely slow due to OPIC’s inability to procure
required consulting services and goods (e.g., vehicles and IT equipment) in a timely manner.
Procurement delays were mainly due to the following factors:
    • Inordinate slowness in preparing bidding documents, short lists and requests for
       proposals for consulting services.
    • Very poor quality of various procurement documents that were submitted to the Bank for
       review, which did not enable the Bank to issue no objections rapidly.
    • Lack of prioritization of procurement activities to align them with the requirements of the
       implementation schedule.
    • Internal differences amongst OPIC staff that further delayed procurement activities.
    • All contracts beyond a certain amount had to be approved by the Central Supplies and
       Tenders Board (CSTB). The Board’s lengthy procedure for approval contributed
       substantially to implementation delays.
    • There were frequent changes in the procurement specialist position. The performance and
       competence of the five procurement specialists during the implementation period were
       not consistent, and ranged from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.

(v)    The Project Steering Committee (PSC), tasked with overall strategic planning and the
       resolution of implementation issues to ensure satisfactory progress, had never met at the
       time of MTR. Lack of oversight by PSC was detrimental to implementation progress.

                                                                                                  9
(vi)    Owing to the high appreciation of the Kina vis-à-vis the US$, and the high rate of
        inflation in PNG, funds available for implementation were inadequate.

(vii)   Severe damage to road infrastructure network in Oro caused by Guba Cyclone in
        November 2007, and extensive flooding in Oro province from November 2012 which
        continued into the early part of 2013, disrupted road works. At times during the 2012
        PNG general election campaigning it became difficult for contractors to progress their
        works and for OPIC to adequately supervise contractor’s work. Implementation of the
        infill program was also disrupted during the election period. Also, poor communication
        systems (email and landline) and continued power outages at each of the three project
        areas made it extremely difficult to communicate between project sites and between
        project sites and OPIC headquarters thus detrimentally impinging on the efficiency of
        implementation.
(viii) The OPIC Board was not operational during the first few years of project implementation
       because GoPNG did not appoint the Board members. Once in place, the Board was
       divided about the role of OPIC in delivering extension services to growers. The rates paid
       to OPIC extension staff had not been adjusted since 2004 and there was no provision in
       OPIC’s budget for the retrenchment of a number of OPIC staff who were approaching, or
       were already past, retirement age. This situation had a negative impact on the
       effectiveness of OPIC and was used as a justification by the palm oil milling companies
       to propose that they should take over the delivery of extension services, leaving OPIC to
       play a limited advisory role in the sector.
(ix)    Unavailability of seedlings to meet growers’ demand, the unavailability of transport to
        deliver seedlings, delays in land preparation for planting and delays with processing infill
        loans for growers contributed to extensive delays in the infilling program, particularly in
        the Oro project area. One of the challenges for OPIC for infilling was that it was entirely
        reliant on the milling companies for the provision of seedlings. Poor communication
        between OPIC and the companies regarding OPIC’s estimates for the future uptake of
        seedlings had resulted in the milling companies preparing an excess number of seedlings
        in their nursery. They had to destroy the seedlings when OPIC failed to use the seedlings
        due to delays in the start-up of the infill program. This resulted in the milling companies
        reserving insufficient numbers of seedlings for OPIC and led to a seedling shortage when
        the infill program accelerated in 2012. A compounding factor was that the milling
        companies were very aggrieved due to the Inspection Panel process and the Effluent
        Audits and, as a result, were less than supportive of SADP activities. The infill program
        in the Hoskins project area was suspended in May, 2013 due to irregularities in the
        implementation of the infill program.
(x)     During implementation there was only limited ownership of project activities by the
        milling companies, outside of road rehabilitation.
(xi)    Work on the design of the Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF) fell significantly
        behind schedule, mainly due to slow progress and poor quality outputs of the consultant.



                                                                                                 10
(xii)    Intervention by the Independent Consumer and Completion Commission (ICCC) delayed
        the start of the review of the FFB price formula.
(xiii) The Inspection Panel process had a negative impact on relationship between the World
       Bank, OPIC, GoPNG and milling companies, which adversely affected project
       implementation.


Inspection Panel

On December 17, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection. The Request
for Inspection was submitted by the Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights
(CELCOR), acting as a representative of the Ahora/Kakandetta Pressure Group, other claimants
from the Oro Province and affected smallholders within the three project areas. The Request
contained claims that the Panel indicated may constitute violations by the Bank of various
provisions of its policies and procedures, including the following:

• OP 1.00, Poverty Reduction
• OP/BP 4.01, Environmental Assessment
• OP/BP 4.10, Indigenous Peoples
• OP/BP 4.36, Forests
• OP/BP 4.04, Natural Habitats
• OP/BP 10.04, Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
• OP/BP 13.05, Project Supervision
• OMS 2.20, Project Appraisal.

Bank Management responded to the Request as follows:

•   The Bank made diligent efforts to apply its policies and procedures and to pursue its mission
    statement concretely in the context of the Project. The Bank had in all material respects
    followed guidelines, policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised by the Request.
    As a result, Requesters’ rights or interests had not been adversely affected by a failure of the
    Bank to implement its policies and procedures.
•   Management recognized several areas for improvement:
    (a) No documents were translated into local languages. The Bank committed to ensure that
        key documents (including a summary of the environmental assessment) were translated
        and made available by OPIC in the Project areas in ‘user friendly’ formats and that OPIC
        radio programs communicated key aspects of the Project to smallholders.
    (b) Documentation of the consultation process in the Social Assessment should have been
        more detailed and complete.
    (c) There was insufficient detail in the EA on the matter of effluents. Based on the review, it
        was agreed to undertake an analysis of the impact of increased effluents due to Project
        activities.
In light of the concerns raised in the Request, Management also agreed to take the following
actions:

                                                                                                 11
•   Ensuring that inconsistencies between the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and the
    Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were addressed. Some inconsistencies between the
    EMP and the PIM in describing the division of labor between OPIC extension officers, the
    environment officers and the land officers for completing the Oil Palm Planting Approval
    Form (PAF) were identified, and the Bank committed to discuss with OPIC and agree on
    making necessary amendments to the Project documents.
•   To further ensure that all environmental and land-related provisions were strictly adhered to,
    the Bank committed to discussing with OPIC and ensuring an explicit sign-off by
    environment and land officers on the Oil Palm Planting Approval Form.
•   Discussing with OPIC and agreeing on measures to further strengthen the consultation
    process for major activities during implementation. These included measures to ensure that
    the processes for community involvement and obtaining and documenting community
    support for the demand driven components of the Project were more explicit.
•   Providing inputs to OPIC to ensure that: (i) design of RMTFs was done in a consultative way
    with the objective of ensuring sustainability; (ii) the process of collecting and analyzing data
    and revising the FFB pricing formula would involve smallholders, through their
    representatives, and OPIC, as well as the milling companies; (iii) provisions in the Road
    Reconstruction Sub-Manual, the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement
    Policy Framework would be re-examined taking into account that IDA had agreed to finance
    some of the incomplete roads in Oro province (which were previously to be financed by
    PNGSDP); (iv) adequate provisions would be made for independent social and
    environmental audits; and (v) grievance mechanisms under the Project would be
    strengthened.

The Inspection Panel process was completed in December 2011 and Management issued its first
progress report to the Bank’s Board of Directors in January 2014. The second report is being
finalized for submission to the Board.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The project’s Outcome Indicators and Results Indicators for each component were
relevant and adequate to monitor progress and reflect the project’s achievements although it
could have been useful to further develop the framework to measure project’s impacts in
incomes 6. Baseline data and target values at the PDO and Component 1 levels were preliminary
and were planned to be adjusted following the baseline survey to be carried out by OPIC within
the first six months of project implementation. Baseline data and target values for Component 2
were not available and were planned to be established following the baseline survey. Activities
envisaged under Component 2 were new and there was little information available on the
communities in the project area. Collecting detailed baseline data and household information was
part of the design of this component and was viewed as being an integral aspect for its success.




6
 For example, a baseline survey/evaluation methodology including a treatment area and a control group (to enable a
difference-in-difference evaluation) would have been necessary to attribute outcomes to project activities. The
baseline conducted by the project was of limited use.

                                                                                                               12
M&E implementation. During restructuring, as some indicators were dropped as they were
ambitious, and some targets were scaled back. OPIC had its own monitoring system for
indicators and the quality of data was reasonably good. However, the data were not updated
regularly. Two baselines were conducted: first for Component 2, and second to cover
Components 1 & 3. Both were of unsatisfactory quality. So the Project heavily relied on OPIS
M&E system, which provides basic but adequate information for capturing the main
achievements of the Project.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected by OPIC, such as a detailed asset management
database containing the inventory, condition and indicative repair cost of the entire network of
smallholder access roads in the 3 project areas comprising approximately 2,000km and data on
the roads rehabilitated under the project and the infill areas planted, were used for planning and
decision making purposes. The satisfactory baseline survey would have been useful in ensuring
better utilization of the MI&E, particularly with respect to making more robust assessment of
project’s impacts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguards. While some limitations have been identified regarding social safeguard
issues, as reported above under the Inspection Panel (IP) section, compliance with social
safeguards requirements was moderately satisfactory overall, although the post-IP performance
has been satisfactory. Except for those that were dropped as part of Component 2 under the
restructured project, social mitigation measures integrated into the project design were all
implemented. These included: (a) hiring of Extension Officers and Land Officers to help build
OPIC’s capacity to address land issues and promote greater inclusiveness; (b) support to PNG
Oil Palm Research Agency’s research to formulate a smallholder engagement strategy; and, (c)
support to growers associations to enhance their capacities to effectively represent their members
through the provision of office equipment and training, and getting them involved in information
dissemination.

Social safeguards in the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) were generally complied with
during implementation. Project activities did not cause any physical or economic displacement
(i.e., loss of homes or income sources). There were only a few crop damage claims due to road
construction in Oro and these were settled in accordance with the process provided in the SADP
Resettlement Policy Framework. All road upgrading projects had undergone consultations with
the affected communities and Community Consent Agreements were secured prior to their
implementation. Communities along rehabilitated roads also had undergone HIV/AIDS
awareness seminars in collaboration with Provincial AIDS Councils. All infill block owners
voluntarily applied for the program and had undergone prior training or orientation about the
program. None of the infill blocks had shown signs that garden food production was disrupted.
Consultations were held on the RMTF and FFB price reviews and these consultations have been
documented. One of the positive outcomes of the Inspection Panel process was a substantial
improvement in the documentation process.

Environmental Safeguards. Independent Environment and Social Audits of SADP indicated
that compliance was moderately satisfactory. Two independent environmental and social audits
were conducted for the project, the first in August 2012 and the second in February 2013.
                                                                                               13
Performance was measured in term of the percentage of compliance with respect to a set of
standard practices. Verifications were carried out through questionnaires and field visits. The
audits showed slight performance improvement in overall environment management over time.

Stream Health Monitoring. As part of SADP, the PNG Oil Palm Research Association (OPRA)
established an arthropod indicator survey to help track changes in water quality over time. The
arthropod survey for stream health monitoring commenced in February 2012 in West New
Britain and was then expanded to Oro. A range of laboratory apparatus and equipment were
purchased for the laboratory and the field survey. Protocols for stream assessment have been
prepared and related training was conducted in the Hoskins, Bialla and Poponedetta project
areas. The monitoring methodology used water quality metrics computed from survey data on
aquatic invertebrate assemblages on selected sites.

Land Use and Forest Cover Change in Project Areas. As part of SADP’s efforts to monitor the
project’s environmental impacts, the Bank facilitated work to monitor land use and forest cover
changes in project areas. This work was undertaken under a Bank partnership with the European
Space Agency. In addition to objectively confirming that there was no destruction of primary
forests due to oil palm cultivation in Oro since 2005, the maps produced were subsequently used
in the final environmental and social audit to identify and inspect high risk blocks in the project
area. This work was innovative and helped demonstrate the usefulness of satellite based
monitoring to manage risks associated with oil palm cultivation. Details of this work is available
online. 7

Roads. The February 2013 audit reflected a modest improvement in the categories for Road
Reconstruction (from 50% to 56%) and Gravel Extraction (from 54% to 59%), although the audit
revealed several areas of non-compliance and/or declining performance in both these categories.
This audit also included construction site closure, which scored a low 40%, primarily due to a
lack of gravel pit rehabilitation. Recommendations from the audit included: improvements to
road and gravel pit monitoring, integration of Environmental Officer and Land Officer roles into
the OPIC structure, improving documentation and availability of SOPs and other project
documentation, introducing a formal site screening assessment, standardizing the use of PAFs
and CLUAs, improved interaction with non-government organizations and government, and
encouraging youth or community group employment in infill block activities.

Infill Planting. A number of issues needed to be addressed by OPIC:
    • Inadequate documentation - The three projects used different versions of the Clan Land
         Use Agreement (CLUA) and, in some instances, old versions of the Planting Approval
         Form (PAF) instead of the final approved PAF version dated May, 2011. By end of
         project a legally reviewed standard CLUA and standard PAF had been implemented at all
         projects. It was agreed that going forward the SADP PAF would be the basis for all
         planting approvals, as has been the case since Project closed on December 31, 2013.




7
 Details available online at:
http://esamultimedia.esa.int/multimedia/publications/ESA_WB_Partnership_Report_2013_complete/

                                                                                                14
   •   No systematic training of new growers before planting - The PAF required evidence that
       applicants have attended a grower workshop as one of the criteria for grower readiness.
       However, there were some instances when new growers had not been trained prior to the
       planting of seedlings on their blocks. Compliance with planting and training procedures
       were much improved in the second half of 2013.
   •   Poor cultivation practices - Growers needed to improve the upkeep of their block, with
       the early establishment of cover crop and installation of drains where required. A
       replacement Extension Specialist was recruited for the last half of 2013 and his emphasis
       was on planting standards and block maintenance, including planting of alternative cover
       crops (e.g., groundnuts) for improved food security. OPIC officers were encouraged to do
       regular block inspections.
   •   Inadequate buffer establishment - There was a lack of a required buffer in one of the infill
       blocks. This instance of non-compliance with the approved infill screening procedures
       under the project would make the block ineligible for RSPO certification. This particular
       problem was resolved and the buffer area has been returned to natural vegetation.

Palm Oil Mill Effluent Action Plan. Concerns were raised during project implementation over the
establishment of effective safeguards to manage potential environmental impacts associated with
additional Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) produced as a result of SADP. Due to the delays in
the recruitment of the Social and Environmental Audit consultants, work on the effluent baseline
started late. The effluent baseline report was finalized in 2011 and the follow-up effluent audits
were completed in February 2012 and October 2013. The February 2013 audit concluded that
“overall, the palm oil mill effluent systems across all mills were operating adequately to ensure
PNG regulatory compliance is achieved at each mill most of the time.” A number of actions and
mitigation measures were agreed and are being implemented by the relevant milling companies
as a result of the study and audit. Most actions were completed as planned, although some of the
actions are expected to be completed in 2014. The Department of Environment and Conservation
has updated the PNG Code of Practice for Palm Oil Processing, and the Bank has reviewed the
Terms of Reference and draft reports, and participated in stakeholder consultations held in May
2012.

Electronic filing of data has been achieved so that OPIC can use these data to monitor
smallholder oil palm productivity as well as the condition of the road network in the long term.

Fiduciary Compliance. As most of the procurement done by OPIC ended-up being prior
reviewed by the Bank, no serious compliance issues were detected. Likewise, adequate financial
management system and records were maintained. However, the Bank’s entity audit
requirements were not complied with by OPIC. An audit action plan dating back to 2009 was
agreed with OPIC as part of the 2012 Project restructuring. At the time the project closed on
December 31, 2013, OPIC had received the audit certificates for 2009 and 2010, while the 2011
and 2012 OPIC audits remain outstanding. Moreover, OPIC has not adhered to the timetables
agreed with IDA in the action plan.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(a) Transition arrangements.


                                                                                                15
(i) Institutional. OPIC’s capacity has been strengthened on several fronts, e.g., a well-structured
reporting, documentation and archiving system that includes the establishment of a Management
Information System (MIS) in Oro and a detailed road asset management database covering the
entire smallholder network in the three project areas. OPIC also benefitted in terms of advice on
project implementation and services of road engineers, tree crop experts, social and
environmental specialists, and extension specialists who provided training to OPIC officers.
OPIC has internalized PAF and other environmental and social procedures.

On the other hand, OPIC has not come up with a retrenchment plan for staff, and international
consultants and some staff specially recruited for the project may not be retained after project
closure.

Due to OPIC’s weak performance, the project area milling companies are considering the
possibility of taking over OPIC’s extension role. In this context, the Bank recommended that
GoPNG/OPIC carry out a strategic review of the future delivery of oil palm extension services,
with the aim of seeking and reaching a consensus among the main stakeholders (milling
companies, growers, GoPNG, provincial governments, OPIC) on the way oil palm extension
services should be delivered, and in that context define the future role of OPIC, if any. This has
not yet been followed-up by GoPNG/OPIC.

Road Engineers Unit (REU): The road engineering unit had experienced and competent staff. If
they are retained by OPIC, they will be able to maintain the roads. The REU has already been
scaled back, and the remaining engineers are being funded through GoPNG financing to OPIC.
The sustainability of this financing (possibly through the RMTF) would be critical in the
continued delivery of REU services for road construction and maintenance in the oil palm
producing areas.

(ii) Technical. OPIC had requested financing in 2014 government budget for completing the
rehabilitation of the smallholder road network. An allocation of PGK10.2 million has been made
in the 2014 budget. One grader has been bought with project funds. In addition, 10% of the
purchase price of the two graders has also been paid from the project prior to closing. The
balance was expected to be paid by OPIC. The remaining two graders have been received and
the balance payment made by the Project. All three project sites have now each one grader, to be
used for road maintenance work.

Infill Planting. The PAF has been accepted as a standard format as is being used for all new
planting. Training has been given to growers. An awareness raising and consultation process was
introduced for the infill planting program and these processes are expected to be maintained in
the future

(iii) Budget. OPIC is financed from a levy paid by the growers and matched by the milling
companies based on production. OPIC is also trying to get budget from the government.
(iv) Staffing and Management. The OPIC Board has been functioning since 2010. Currently
there is no General Secretary and the Financial Controller is acting as General Secretary, which
is diverting his regular work as financial controller, including financial management and taking
care of audit issues.

                                                                                                16
(b) Follow-on project. No follow on project is anticipated in the near future.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of objective: The objective is still relevant, timely and appropriate to the current
needs of Papua New Guinea’s social and economic development. It is also timely and
appropriate to the needs of the country’s agriculture sector, especially in terms of improving the
income of smallholders. The objective is consistent with the current Country Partnership
Strategy 8 (CPS). For example, during the CPS period of 2013-2016, the Bank has envisaged
support for improved productivity and profitability of smallholders growing cash crops,
productivity gains for rural households growing food crops, improved sustainability and
resilience to price and weather volatility, and improved market chain infrastructure.

Relevance of design: The core design remains relevant and retains the potential for increasing oil
palm revenue and the involvement of communities in local development. However, project
design overestimated OPIC’s capacity, which had declined during the years after the end of the
earlier Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project (OSOPDP). While this could not be
necessarily anticipated during project preparation, more resources could have been allocated to
strengthen OPIC management and implementation capacity, perhaps through a project
preparation fund. In hindsight, OPIC’s weak implementation capacity and the challenges posed
by operating in an environment with limited private sector competition and a weak regulatory
and governance environment, have been major impediments to fully achieving Project’s
outcomes. In addition, more adequate due diligence could have been paid to the effluent issues,
as well as to documenting consultations during the Project’s preparation phase.

Relevance of implementation arrangement: The implementation arrangement remains largely
relevant. However, considering the weak capacity of OPIC during implementation, it might in
hindsight have been better to hire a firm to manage the project 9 , as was done for the Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (RMRP) in PNG or place a stronger project management
unit in the field, rather than in the capital. This said, OPIC capacity issues could not necessarily
have been anticipated during project preparation, and OPIC weaknesses were exacerbated during
implementation, as a result of weak government support. Moreover OPIC faced considerable
staff turnover and it was difficult to replace staff. If a firm had been recruited, it would have
been responsible for replacing staff. Within OPIC, hiring of counterpart funded staff for SADP
was delegated to the field managers. In many cases, the caliber of individuals hired was
questionable.




8
  Report No. 71440-PG; dated November 8, 2012
9
 These weaknesses mainly reflected the weak commitment of GoPNG which did not intervene to ensure the
appointment of the OPIC Board, the provision of oversight by the PSC or timely counterpart funding.

                                                                                                  17
Rating: Considering these factors, the relevance of objectives and design remains substantial,
although the relevance of implementation of modest. Therefore, the overall relevance of the
objectives, design and implementation is rated Modest.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Moderately Unsatisfactory 10

The achievement of the development objectives is rated moderately unsatisfactory, for both the
periods before and after the June 2012 restructuring, which became effective in September 2012.

Before project restructuring, implementation progress had been slow, mainly due to OPIC’s
weak capacity, and the limited government oversight. However, some progress was achieved in
two areas: (i) undertaking preparatory works, compiling the road asset management database and
scoping the roads to be rehabilitated; and (ii) supporting improved farm management and
productivity increases among smallholder farmers through OPIC’s extension efforts and the
significant involvement of milling companies. OPIC also undertook a major reorganization
exercise for its extension services in the second half of 2011. OPIC failed to recruit a
management agency to implement Component 2 on local governance and community
participation.

After project restructuring, project implementation progress improved, and results were achieved
under the road rehabilitation and reconstruction component, with the revised target of 190km for
rehabilitation and 13km for reconstruction slightly surpassed. While notable, achievements on
the road program represent 43% of the appraised target. Progress was also made on the infill
program, with approximately 40% of the revised target of 2,500ha in-fill planting having been
achieved (11% of the appraised target). In addition, the target of the number of farmers trained in
improved management practices by OPIC (1,500) was fully achieved (the 1,500 target was set
during project restructuring to include a core-indicator in project monitoring system). The post-
restructuring achievements were important, but they came too late and were too little with
respect to the original targets. OPIC’s capacity limitations, the limited oversight, and long
procurement delays, the Kina appreciation and the long protracted investigation of the Project,
all contributed to the weak overall performance of the project. While the results obtained have
helped growers to improve their farm management capacities, increase yields and to have
improved access to roads, and while the country has also benefitted from stronger instruments
for managing compliance with respect to environmental and social safeguards (improved
consultation frameworks, adherence to RSPO certification guidelines and Code of Practice for
oil palm processing), PNG could have gained much more from the Project. In light of the results
achieved and given the significant shortcomings outlined above, the overall achievement of the
development objectives is rated moderately unsatisfactory.


10
   As the project scope was downsized and output indicators were revised during the September 2012 restructuring>
Project outcomes have been assessed against achievements before and after restructuring. To assist in arriving at an
overall outcome rating, separate outcome ratings have been weighted in proportion to the share of disbursements
made in the periods before and after restructuring. Based on the two ratings, the overall achievement of the project is
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

                                                                                                                   18
I. Project outcome before restructuring

The project’s achievements before restructuring were as follows:

   A. Increasing oil palm revenue
   • Rural roads rehabilitation: Before restructuring, OPIC and REU completed the inventory
      and condition survey of the entire smallholder road network in all three Project areas in
      2011. The condition survey covered 2,000km, which was the entire smallholder network.
      The original project design was to rebuild the entire pavement and drainage structure of
      550km of roads. In 2011, OPIC/REU prepared an initial program of spot improvements,
      comprising repairs of severe defects and reinstatement of drainage along selected priority
      roads, based on agreed initial prioritization criteria. The bidding package included: (i) a
      total of 40 roads in all five divisions with a combined length of 54 km, with spot repairs
      over a total equivalent length of 23 km in Hoskins; (ii) a total of 26 roads in all three
      divisions with a combined length of 54 km, with spot repairs over a total equivalent
      length of 15 km in Bialla; and (iii) a total of 19 roads in all four divisions with a
      combined length of 81 km, with spot repairs over a total equivalent length of 11 km in
      Oro. The total roughly corresponded to the revised road improvement program target of
      190 km.
   • Increase in smallholder income from oil palm production: Smallholder income increased
      from K75.1 million in July 2006 to K204 million in September 2012, compared to the
      end target of K96 million. The increase in income was primarily due to the increase in
      palm oil prices, but also due to OPIC and the milling companies’ efforts in increasing
      smallholder productivity, facilitating fertilizer distribution and application and ensuring
      regular FFB pick-up where road access was still reasonable.
   • Increase in smallholder yields: Smallholder yield increased from 15.2 t/ha in July 2006 to
      19.4 t/ha in September 2012, which is a contributor (albeit not the most important factor)
      to the increase in income. As indicated above, yield improvement may be attributed to
      more frequent harvests due to the milling companies’ efforts in ensuring regular FFB
      pick-up and to improvements in extension advice that facilitated the use of improved
      farm management practices by smallholders. Significant investments were made to
      upgrade OPIC’s extension delivery by the time of the restructuring including increasing
      the number of extension officers (28 new extension staff were hired in addition to the
      internationally recruited Extension Specialist), improving the mobility of extension
      officers (through the purchase of new vehicles and motorcycles), extensive training for
      OPIC staff and growers associations, and communications upgrades (for example through
      the mobile phone closed user group setup in Hoskins).

   B. Increasing local participation.

As no activities were conducted under Component 2 on Local Governance and Community
Participation, there was no increase in local participation as it was originally envisaged under the
CDD framework. However, participation has been supported in various ways as part of the
activities of the other components.




                                                                                                 19
    C. Overall Assessment
Considering that the project has achieved some results, but performed less than anticipated, the
rating during the period prior to restructuring is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

II. Project outcome after restructuring

     A. Increasing oil palm revenue

     •   Road Rehabilitation: Due to cost escalation, as of January 2014, 223.7 km of “spot
         repairs” were done rather than full rehabilitation. Under spot repairs, 43 km was graveled
         (full rehabilitation would gravel the entire road.) In addition, as of January 2014, 15.44
         km of incomplete road has been completed, exceeding the revised target of 14 km. The
         project contributed to the rehabilitation of a total 238.54 km of roads, exceeding the
         revised target of 190 km (for details see the Table below).

           Road Contracts                    Hoskins       Bialla      Popondetta          Total
          Main Contracts                      54.13        54.56          81.12            189.81
          2014 Surplus Funds                    -           1.81          31.48             33.29
          Incomplete Roads                      -             -           14.84             14.84
          Incomplete (Surplus funds)            -             -            0.60              0.60
          Total                               54.13        56.37         128.04            238.54

     The original design was to rebuild the entire pavement and drainage structure of 550km. But
     it is critical to understand why a decision was made at Midterm Review to shift the focus
     from road reconstruction to spot repairs, with the exception of Oro incomplete roads. Based
     on the scoping work outlined about, it was decided that the entire first year implementation
     works were to be limited to spot reconstruction (primarily longitudinal table drains, turn out
     drains and gravel patching). The primary objective of these repairs was to restore wet
     weather access for impassable roads. The rationale for this was that the targeting of resources
     enabled a larger number of roads to be covered across the network and thus benefiting a
     greater number of smallholders earlier, and generating more FFB production in a shorter time.
     This decision was taken on the basis of the first package tendered for the Oro incomplete
     roads where it became apparent that a revised strategy was needed because of the significant
     increase in costs for road works. 11 The road inventory also indicated that, for most roads,
     the conditions varied along the length of the road ranging from good to bad, therefore it made
     sense to adopt a spot patching approach.

     Community roadside maintenance was piloted during the project to ensure that rehabilitated
     roads were maintained. Rehabilitated roads will help improve access to critical social
     services, including health and education. Roads and other transport infrastructure would also



11
  Preparation cost estimates were around K79,000/km for the incomplete roads (US$28,000/km). The first package
tendered by PNG SDP for Oro incomplete road came in at K620,000/km, which was nearly an eight-fold increase.

                                                                                                           20
   give households better access to markets, allowing them to engage in a wider range of
   income earning activities and diversify their incomes.

   •   Infill planting: The original target of 9,000 ha was scaled down to 2,500 ha under the
       restructuring. By November 2013, 1,006 hectares had been planted. The details are as
       follows :

        Project Area                     Revised targets after        Achievement
                                          2012 restructuring              (ha)
                                                 (ha)
        Hoskins                                 1,130                      144
        Bialla                                   520                       276
        Popondetta                               850                       586
        Total                                   2,500                     1,006

   •   Increase in smallholder income from oil palm production: Smallholder income increased
       from K75.1 million in July 2006 to K287.5 million in 2011, K193 million in 2012, and
       K125.4 million in 2013. The end of project agreed target at restructuring was K96.1
       million. This target was surpassed in all years, including in the terminal year by more
       than 30 percent. However, the increase in income is largely attributable to higher palm oil
       prices, and OPIC and the milling companies’ efforts in increasing smallholder
       productivity, facilitating fertilizer distribution and application and ensuring regular FFB
       pick-up. It is also partly due to the rehabilitation of the smallholder road network carried
       out under the project from mid-2012.

   •   Number of growers trained in sustainable production practices. As of December 2013,
       1,500 growers were trained as envisaged under the target. This indicator was included in
       the results framework in the 2012 project restructuring, in response to the need to include
       a core indicator in the project’s monitoring framework.

   B. Increasing local participation.

As Component 2 was dropped at restructuring, the project could not contribute to any increase in
local participation.

    C. Overall Assessment in the period post-restructuring
While Project’s achievements improved after restructuring, limitations have remained significant,
as discussed in previous sections. Therefore, the rating during the period after restructuring is
Moderately Unsatisfactory.


III. Overall project outcome

Since the project rating before and after restructuring is Moderately Unsatisfactory, the weighted
calculation of project rating, taking into account pre- and post-restructuring disbursement rates,


                                                                                                21
will not change the overall rating. The rating value remains at 3, and the overall project rating is
Moderately Unsatisfactory.


                                                  Before              After          Overall
                                               Restructuring          Restructuring
1      Rating                                   Moderately             Moderately
                                               Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
2      Rating value                                  3                      3
3      Weight (% disbursed                        19.7%                   80.3%
       before/after PDO change)
4      Weighted value (2 x 3)                        0.59                   2.41              3.00
5      Final rating (rounded)                                                              Moderately
                                                                                          Unsatisfactory
* Value for each rating: Highly Satisfactory=6, Satisfactory=5, Moderately Satisfactory=4, Moderately
Unsatisfactory=3, Unsatisfactory=2, and Highly Unsatisfactory=1



3.3 Efficiency

Economic analysis shows good returns to investment under the Project. The economic rate of
return from the project is 17.5 percent and the benefit: cost ratio was 1.35. Even under
conservative assumptions of falling yields and prices, the project showed a very good rate of
returns suggesting potential for smallholder oil palm development in the country in the
established areas. These results are in agreement with the expected results presented in the
Project Appraisal Document. For example, the results indicate relatively high returns to the
smallholder oil palm plantation for the smallholder (Annex 3). The Internal Rates of Return
(IRR) range from 27.9% in Hoskins to 22.6% in Oro with an average of 24.6%, which are in line
with the appraised levels of returns in the PAD, estimated at 27%, 24% and 22% for the three
projects, respectively. Sensitivity analyses show that these returns remain robust with drought-
induced fall in yields and market-induced fall in prices. Overall economic returns of the project
also remain strong. Benefits are expected from additional income from the newly planted oil
palm trees, additional yields from more systematic harvesting, better block management and FFB
collection activities, savings from on transport costs stemming from more efficient road
operations, including reduction in maintenance costs on mills’ fleet.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Relevance. As explained in Section 3.1, the relevance of objectives, design, and implementation
is rated as Substantial.

Achievement of PDOs. As explained in Section 3.2, the achievement of the PDOs is rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.



                                                                                                           22
Efficiency. As discussed in Section 3.3, the Project, despite the partial implementation,
continues to display good return on investments. The concept of smallholder oil palm sector
development in existing oil palm areas proved to be an efficient concept that is expected to yield
high return on investment, improve the provision of public infrastructure (roads), build the
capacity of smallholder farmers to better manage their farms, and strengthen institutional
capacity for improved management of environmental and social safeguards.

Based on the above factors and the discussion in sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts. It is difficult to measure the project’s impact on poverty alleviation, as the
roads were completed only towards the end of the project. However, these rehabilitated roads
will have long term impact on poverty alleviation, because, with improved roads a large number
of smallholders would be in a position to increase the sales of their oil palm fruit (FFB), thereby
increasing their income. OPIC’s database indicated that as of September 2013, 2,055 families
had improved access to roads. Improved roads would also improve access to schools and health
facilities, as well as to markets for other products, thus enabling smallholders to improve the
overall welfare of their household. In addition, in order to strengthen households’ livelihoods,
workshops on income generation opportunities were conducted by OPIC under the Project. 12

Gender Aspects. Women are benefitting from improved roads and from their participation in
road maintenance work, which enable them to sell their agricultural products, such as fruits and
vegetables. Another positive feature of the project was that it ensured equal participation of
women in the consultation processes.

Social. Two major points are noteworthy:

     •   The project was instrumental in strengthening the use of consultations with communities
         and beneficiaries in the palm oil sector with regard to oil palm cultivation (particularly
         planting), and road construction and maintenance. Extensive consultations were also held
         on the FFB price formula.

     •   The project increased awareness of HIV/AIDs among smallholders, particularly those
         living along roads that were rehabilitated.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

There was substantial institutional strengthening as a result of the project, as demonstrated by the
following achievements:



12
  For example, an Income Generating Projects Committee was established in Oro Province with representation from
the growers, the provincial government, financial institutions, community organizations, churches and NGOS. One
of the objectives of the committee was to help link growers with other opportunities available in the province.

                                                                                                            23
•   Safeguard measures adopted for this project in order to comply with OP4.10 (IP Policy) and
    OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) have improved oil palm communities’ involvement in
    OPIC’s development efforts, particularly in infilling and road repair and maintenance.
•   Implementation of the PAF ensures compliance with environmental and social safeguards
    and CLUA requirements, which are mandatory for screening and qualifying infill blocks.
    This process has not only greatly benefitted growers and OPIC to meet RSPO certification
    requirements, but has also created awareness in communities regarding environmental and
    social safeguards.
•   A Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM) has been set up at OPIC’s field offices in Oro,
    Hoskins and Bialla. Although still quite crude, it has proved to be a useful management tool
    for these offices, effectively providing a system for tracking and monitoring growers’
    complaints and improving response time. Growers’ awareness of OPIC’s GRM also appears
    to be high, with the number of grievances registered in 2012 numbering more than 900 (114
    in Oro, 714 in Hoskins, and about a hundred in Bialla). Most of the grievances registered
    pertain to normal OPIC operations and are not project-related.
•   The roads component was managed through REU and the Oil Palm Infrastructure
    Department (OPID), the technical department of OPIC established under SADP. The REU
    was staffed by a team of consultants. OPID engineers worked alongside the REU team and
    their capacity has been significantly strengthened through this process.
•   The capacity of OPIC has been strengthened considerably. For example, many OPIC staff in
    field offices have become knowledgeable about budgeting, finance and accounting, and MIS
    (for details see Section 2.5). Extension officers have become more informed about
    environmental issues, RSPO and better block management.
•   SADP contributed to strengthening the capacity of extension staff because of the training
    programs financed by the project.
•   Purchase of vehicles, computers, Satellite mobile communications equipment (Vsat) and
    motorbikes for field visits, has greatly improved communication between growers and OPIC
    staff.
•   The review of the FFB pricing formula started in 2013, and is expected to be completed in
    2014. The last review of the formula dated back to 2001, making the SADP-financed review
    particularly important to adjust the formula taking into account changes in the cost structure
    and efficiencies of smallholder production and milling.
•   Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) Action Plan. An effluent baseline was established for all
    mills in the project area and a follow-up effluent audit was completed. Implementation of
    mitigation measures identified in the baseline and subsequent audits will ensure compliance
    with national effluent regulations and will need to be monitored by the Department of
    Environment and Conservation.
•   A standardized oil palm training module was also developed and implemented under the
    project.
•   The capacities of the Growers Associations were strengthened. All three Associations
    received support from SADP in the form of office equipment (a computer and printer),
    MYOB accounting software was installed, and grower representatives received training on
    leadership, accounting and budgeting. The Bialla Oil Palm Growers Association (BOPGA)
    produced financial statements for 2010 and 2011. This was the first time that any of the
    Growers Associations had produced such statements.


                                                                                               24
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

•   An increase in roads/civil contracting capacity in Oro could fairly be attributed to SADP. A
    good West New Britain (WNB) contractor has established itself in Oro as a result of winning
    two SADP contracts and is apparently successfully bidding for other work in the province.
•   By the end of the project, cultivation of peanuts was introduced as an alternative income
    generation product and for enhancing soil fertility.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The ICR team considers that the risk to development outcome would be high based on the
following factors:

•   The RMTF study was completed and accepted by OPIC in November 2013. If the RMTF is
    not properly institutionalized, there is potential risk that the pickup and transport of FFB to
    the mills will be affected as there will be no regular maintenance. However, to partly mitigate
    the risk of a delay in implementing the outcomes of the RMTF study, OPIC has procured
    three graders, one for each project area. The purpose of the grader acquisition is to provide a
    reliable if limited resource for carrying out routine maintenance on smallholder roads that are
    in good or fair condition, until such time as the RMTF becomes operational.

•   Since Bank funds are no longer available after project completion on December 31, 2013,
    and OPIC does not receive funds from GoPNG for its recurrent budget, OPIC’s resources
    will likely only consist of the levies paid by growers and the milling companies. This may be
    insufficient to absorb the incremental staff hired under the project and finance OPIC staff
    salaries and field operations, let alone retrench staff due for retirement and upgrade the staff
    compensation package. It is likely that OPIC may face a serious financial crisis 2015, which
    could jeopardize the project’s achievements as well as earlier investments in the delivery of
    extension services to oil palm growers.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
moderately satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the
adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic,
and institutional, including procurement and financial management. A number of alternatives

                                                                                                 25
were considered for the project design. In addition, major risk factors and lessons learned from
other earlier projects in the agriculture sector were considered and incorporated into the project
design. Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided
the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and develop a good project design.
The project was consistent with the CPS and government priorities in the sector at the time.

However, the Bank overestimated OPIC’s capacity, which had declined during the years after the
end of the Oro project. Were this capacity not overestimated, more resources could have been
allocated to strengthen OPIC management capacity under SADP.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Sufficient
budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately and intensively
supervised, and closely monitored. The task team prepared Aide-Memoires regularly and alerted
the government and OPIC to problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely
manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically
rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objective, and
project implementation. The task team also monitored fiduciary and safeguard compliance,
including the efficient management of the Inspection Panel Review process and the ensuing
action plan. The Bank provided necessary support and training on fiduciary and safeguards
aspects to OPIC staff to ensure compliance.

The task team carried out a Mid-Term Review in September 2010. Based on MTR discussions,
the execution of project activities was rescheduled. The project was then restructured in June
2012 (with effectiveness in September 2012) with the project scope scaled back and the closing
date extended by one year.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

With a Moderately Satisfactory rating for quality at entry and a Satisfactory rating for quality of
supervision, overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

As mentioned in Section 2.1, there was lack of ownership and commitment on the part of
GoPNG. For example, inadequate counterpart funding and delays in provision of counterpart
funding since the inception of the project contributed to implementation delays and the reduction
in the scope of the project. Also, the government did not provide guidance to OPIC on resolving
project implementation issues. The failure to appoint a General Secretary to OPIC, and
substantial delays by CSTB in approving contracts, weakened delivery capacity and ultimately
resulted in the moderately unsatisfactory outcome of the project.
                                                                                                26
The participation of provincial governments in the SADP project was limited, 13 although this
could have been more significant were Component 2 on local participation implemented. In
addition communication between OPIC and government was inadequate. There were internal
government problems with staff resources management, and the Liquefied Natural Gas
project/extractive sector projects, drew significant attention away from SADP at the critical stage
where bold government decisions to address issues could have made the difference in final
project’s outcomes.

Finally, the provision of counterpart funding was insufficient and the provision of funds was
usually not timely, which slowed Project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Project management continued to be weak throughout implementation mainly due to: (i) lack of
adequate staff capacity at the OPIC office in Port Moresby; (ii) delayed recruitment and
mobilization of the Procurement Advisor, which resulted in the Project Coordinator having to
continue to focus on Procurement; (iii) prolonged delay in the recruitment of the OPIC General
Secretary by GoPNG; and (iv) poor coordination of field activities, with the exception of road
works which were under the supervision of REU.
Lack of management oversight at all levels within OPIC had led to serious deficiencies in the
infill program in the project area, particularly in the first years. This has weakened milling
companies’ confidence in OPIC’s delivery capacity, and ultimately led to worsened relationships
between OPIC and these companies. For example, milling companies lost seedlings in 2012 to
be used by the then ill-performing program; when the program turned around and needed
seedlings, they were provided in insufficient quantities, limiting the overall achievements of the
program. Management of the road rehabilitation program by REU consultants was moderately
satisfactory. Overall, establishment of Unit made significant contributions to SADP road
construction and rehabilitation programs. Unfortunately, sustainability of the Unit will remain
critical so long as there is no secure mechanism for funding and retaining the engineers on the
Unit.

OPIC Monitoring and Evaluation was basis, but it put in place arrangements to monitor progress
toward the attainment of key performance indicators. To a large extent, OPIC had failed to
provide regular monthly reports to the Bank.

Procurement: OPIC’s procurement performance was unsatisfactory. Project implementation
progress was extremely slow due to OPIC’s inability to procure required consulting services and
goods (e.g., vehicles and Information Technology equipment) in a timely manner. Procurement
performance slightly improved overtime, especially when the Procurement Advisor was
recruited. However, overall procurement performance has remained low due to CSTB delays.


13
  The envisaged role of provincial governments was in terms of their participation in the Project Steering
Committee, as well as involvement in Local Planning Committees.

                                                                                                       27
Financial Management: Financial management performance was moderately satisfactory. The
Project Agreement required OPIC to maintain a project office with dedicated staff including two
project accountants. While OPIC had one project accountant on staff, the Financial Controller
had been Acting General Secretary for OPIC since 2012 and was not performing the role of the
Financial Controller. In late 2012 OPIC recruited a staff member, paid by SADP, to fill the
position of the Financial Controller, however his work focused on OPIC general accounts work
and getting OPIC financial statements in order. As such, the Project Coordinator continued to
perform the accounting and financial functions for the project instead of the Financial Controller.
There were also delays in audit reports, although all project audits have now been received by
the Bank. Progress has been made in clearing part of the backlog of OPIC audits, with the 2009
and 2010 audits being received by the Bank. However, entity audits of the 2011, 2012 and 2013
financial statements are yet to be completed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

In light of the Government and OPIC performance as discussed above, the overall performance
of the Borrower is rated Unsatisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

Project Preparation and Implementation

•   SADP confirmed the well-known lesson that Project relevance alone does not guarantee
    implementation success in an environment where commitment and ownership are lacking on
    the part of the government and stakeholders, particularly the milling companies and OPIC. In
    addition, good relationships between the government, implementing agencies, and the Bank
    are also critical factors for the success of a project. Nominating members of OPIC’s Board
    could have been made a condition of effectiveness so that the Board would have been
    operational from the beginning of project implementation. However, strong government
    oversight to ensure that implementation issues are tackled in real time in order to keep a
    project on track is even more important.

•   The project also confirmed that adequate consultation with all stakeholders is a very
    important pre-requisite during project preparation and implementation. Equally important is
    the proper documentation of the consultation process and feedback, not only for
    administrative reasons, but also to record consent and smooth the path of implementation,
    especially in environments where land rights are highly contested.

•   Lessons from both project preparation and implementation demonstrate that development of
    an effective communication and outreach strategy can help generate awareness and
    participation at the community level, which would help farmers understand the benefits of a
    project such as SADP and not be misguided by external influences. In addition, better


                                                                                                28
    communication and coordination between the implementing agency, milling companies and
    the credit provider would have benefitted the implementation of the infill program.

•   SADP has offered a great opportunity to learn a series of lessons on preparing and
    implementing projects in a weak capacity environment. OPIC has severe governance issues
    that greatly impacted on the ownership and implementation of the project. OPIC’s Board is
    dysfunctional and the post of General Secretary has been filled on an “acting” basis for
    years. Considering the weak capacity of OPIC, more emphasis should have been placed on
    capacity building at the headquarters level and the project level. Also, in order to make up for
    OPIC’s lack of capacity, it is essential for OPIC to seek the services of relevant subject
    matter specialists for evaluations and technical reviews. It is important to carefully evaluate
    the capacity and staffing needs of the implementing agency during project preparation, so
    that adequate capacity is in place for implementation. Issues of salary differentials between
    project and non-project staff within an organization are potential source of conflicts that may
    cripple the organization if they are not effectively handled, and OPIC fell a victim of that.

•   In addition, in a weak capacity environment, there could be a role for third parties to help
    manage critical sector studies, especially when the implementing agencies have limited
    technical and managerial capacities to effectively oversee these studies. This was required by
    the Bank for the FFB Review, based on OPIC’s inability to manage previous studies, and
    given that the study will not be completed prior the project’s closing date.

•   In terms of procurement lessons, the use of post-qualification requirements in 2011 resulted
    in local contractors in both Oro and West New Britain either not bidding, failing to qualify,
    or being restricted to single lots. The ‘national’ (larger) contractors, perhaps seeing little
    competition, generally submitted significantly more costly bids. As a result, contract prices
    were higher than expected, although some of these variations may also be due to base
    estimates being inaccurate. The new framework introduced in 2013 with lower multipliers
    for qualification criteria and higher thresholds for shopping should go a long way to
    overcoming this problem.

•   The poor performance by OPIC calls for more realism in assessing implementation capacity.
    Implementation readiness is critical for the success of project, and Projects should build in
    stronger measures to address lack of counterpart performance.

Sector specific

•   Delay-induced cost increase
    The average cost of road rehabilitation in 2012 was approximately three times greater than
    the 2007 estimate in Kina and four times greater than the 2007 estimate in US$ This resulted
    in the scope of reconstruction being drastically reduced, and a high post-project cost
    remaining to restore the balance of the network to a passable condition. While this drastic
    reduction may not have been entirely foreseen during project preparation, exchange rate risks
    could have been more vigorously factored into price contingency estimates, were the LNG



                                                                                                 29
     boom adequately anticipated. 14 For extreme fluctuations, mitigation measures could be as
     simple as properly calibrating communication around project activities so as to effectively
     manage expectations.

•    Prioritization process
     Where roads within a network are prioritized for improvement, the prioritization process
     needs to be very carefully managed to maintain transparency and objectivity. This becomes
     even more important in situations where one is forced to make drastic reductions in the
     original scope, as was the case of SADP where two-thirds of the originally planned roads
     were not rehabilitated due to increased costs and shortage of funds.

•    Providing good side drainage, road shape and adequate cross drainage
     Oil palm areas are generally very flat and the roads are usually constructed at ground level,
     so there is little opportunity to divert surface water away from the road reserve, and in these
     circumstances shallow longitudinal side drains quickly silt. It is therefore critical to provide a
     good cross-sectional shape with a minimum 5% camber, and the road pavement sufficiently
     elevated above the side drains to avoid waterlogging. It also appears that when some
     smallholder roads were originally constructed, insufficient attention was given to cross
     drainage, and this caused major problems with wash-outs rendering roads impassable.

•    Use of screened or crushed river gravel
     Material available for constructing road pavements in project areas is almost entirely sourced
     from river gravel, either screened or crushed. While crushed gravel is clearly far superior to
     screened gravel, its cost is generally prohibitive. Screened gravel has to be used but should
     meet the specification and be within an acceptable ‘grading envelope’, which requires
     mechanical screening. Gravel extraction should also ensure compliance with environment
     requirements.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The team has reviewed the Borrower’s assessment of Project performance and the lessons
learned. It appears that the assessment of SADP outcomes is incomplete, many results as
discussed in Annex 2 being omitted. The Borrower rightly stressed the importance of road
improvement for smallholder oil palm production and incomes. It also clearly identified key
factors that have affected the implementation of this component, including procurement delays,
lack of counterpart funding and significant appreciation of Kina and cost escalation in the project
areas. The team also takes note of the Borrower appreciation of the Bank performance, including
repeated remarks on procurement procedures.

It should be noted that while some of the delays may be due to the Bank, most Bank-related
delays are due to poor quality documents which required several rounds of corrections. Major
delays are caused by lengthy turnaround at national level, and this proved to be very costly to the


14
   The boom led to rapid influx of foreign investments that provoked a Dutch Disease in an environment of
relatively rigid absorptive capacity, which led to the rapid Kina appreciation and the significant increases in prices.

                                                                                                                   30
project. The capacities built through SADP, the infill plantings, the arrangements to continue
some of Project activities after closing (e.g. the FFB price review), and the purchase of one
grader for each of the project sites are some of the achievements that are expected to continue to
deliver benefits beyond the project implementation period.


(b) Cofinanciers

The Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development Program (PNGSDP) was the main co-
financier for SADP. PNGSDP indicated that the roads reconstruction and maintenance program
was fully justified, but the approach could have been more flexible. According to PNGSDP,
SADP could have financed more roads, if the specifications for the roads were less stringent (for
example, using straight screen river gravel in lieu of crushed aggregate gravel). In addition,
PNGSDP also considered the rationale for the infill program was also solid. Filling the gaps
along constructed and rehabilitated roads was a cost-effective proposition for palm oil operations,
both for growers and milling companies. The infill program also fully justified future road
maintenance work, helping to ensure that project investments in roads will be durable. While the
program was slow to commence, PNDSDP ensured that the agreed interest rate with PML was
maintained at 8% for the growers.

Regarding the use of aggregates for road works, Bank missions advised while crushed gravel is
of a far superior quality, screened gravel is a good alternative. However, that screened gravel
should meet the specification and be within an acceptable ‘grading envelope’, which requires
mechanical screening. PNGSDP’s support to the infill program through the provision of loans is
highly appreciated. It is unfortunate the program has been stopped. It could also have been
useful for SADP to have a more systematic access to PNGSDP contributions to the project.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                                                                               31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing 15

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                         Appraisal                      Actual /Latest       Percentage of
                                                     Revised
           Components                    Estimate                         Estimate            Appraised
                                                     Estimate
                                       (US$ million)                    (US$ million)         Estimates*
1: Smallholder Productivity
                                             55.5            28.8             15.72              28.3%
Enhancement
2: Local Governance and
                                              3.1            0.00              0.00
Community Participation                                                                           0.0%
3: Project Management and
                                              6.2            11.4              9.69
Institutional Support                                                                            156.3%
Total Baseline Cost                          64.8            40.2             25.41              39.2%
Physical Contingencies                        1.8               -               -
Price Contingencies                           2.2              -                 -
Total Project Costs                          68.8            40.2             25.41              36.9%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)             -               -                 -
Front-end fee (IBRD only)                      -               -                -
Total Financing Required                     68.8            40.2            25.41               36.9%
* With respect to revised estimates, percentage achieved are 63.2% overall, with 54.6% for component 1
and 85% for component 3. These figures do not include PNGSDP’s contributions.




15
  These costs do not include contributions from PNG Sustainable Development Program (PNGSDP), which was to
provide US$2.9 million to finance the upgrading of “incomplete roads” in Oro Province. The Program also
supported PML in providing loans to smallholder growers. In their comment on the ICR, PNGSDP indicated they
contributed US$7-8 million to support SADP (both roads and loan programs). It was not possible to independently
verify this contribution, and OPIC financial information management system does not show records of PNGSDP’s
contribution to SADP.

                                                                                                            32
(b) Financing 16

                                                Appraisal        Revised Actual/Latest
                                Type of                                                   Percentage of
                                                Estimate        Estimates  Estimate
      Source of Funds           Cofinan-                                                    Revised
                                                 (USD           (Restruc-    (USD
                                  cing                                                      Estimate
                                                millions)        turing)  millions) (iii)
Borrower (ii)                    Parallel         7.40             5.50       2.15           39.1%
Local Communities               Parallel (i)      7.30             0.00       N/A             N/A
PNG Sustainable                 Parallel (i)
                                                   10.2            7.20            N/A(iv)            N/A(iv)
Development Program
International
Development                      Parallel          27.50           27.50            23.26             84.6%
Association (IDA) (v)
Local Sources of
                                  N/A(i)           16.40           0.00              N.A                N/A
Borrowing Country
Total                                -             68.8            40.2             25.41             63.2%
Notes:
(i)
     The financial reporting system does not record information on all the other financiers identified at appraisal,
namely the milling companies, smallholder farmers, PNG Sustainable Development and local governments in Oro
and West New Britain provinces.
(ii)
      Project accounts also show that total PNG contribution to the project amounted to about US$6.46 equivalent.
Since an equivalent amount of US$2.15 has been disbursed under the project, the statements as of May 2014 shows
a balance of about US$4.31 million, to be used to pay outstanding liabilities, which may include taxes.
(iii)
      Total project costs were estimated at nearly PGK55.96 million, which is equivalent to US$25.41 million, with
91.5% (US$23.26 million) representing IDA contribution, and the remaining 8.5% (US$2.15 million) representing
contributions from the GoPNG.
(iv)
      PNG Sustainable Development Program was to provide US$2.9 million to finance the upgrading of “incomplete
roads in Oro Province. Some of this funding has been released, but
(v)
    Compared to the approved US$ equivalent amount of 27.5 million, total disbursement rate prior to project closing
was 86.1%. However, out of the total IDA amount disbursed, about 1.7% or approximately US$0.4 million has been
refunded back to the Bank, implying effective amount disbursed was approximately US$23.26; the corresponding
effective disbursement rate is therefore 84.6%.




16
   A total of PGK52.11 million was received in the designated account over the life of the project. This corresponds
to a Client Connection’s record of approximately US$23.67 million as of May 14, 2014, implying an average
PGK/US$ exchange rate of 2.20.

                                                                                                                 33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


 Component 1: Smallholder Productivity Enhancement

 Infill planting: The original target of 9,000 ha was scaled down to 2,500 ha under the
 restructuring. By May 2013, 1,006 hectares had been planted, representing 40.2% of the
 revised target. The details are as follows:

              Project              Number of              Total Area
                                    Blocks                (hectares)
              Hoskins                 72                     144
               Bialla                127                     276
             Popondetta              290                     586
               Total                 489                    1,006

 In addition the infill planting program helped build a robust screening and planting approval
 platform. The process and systems established are based on best practice procedures in
 terms of environmental and social safeguards screening in oil palm planting. They rely on
 an integrated and coordinated approach among OPIC, PML (microfinance institution) and
 the milling companies. Under the infill loan program, loans were extended to approved
 growers by PML. Loans repayments were collected by the milling company as a deduction
 from payments to the grower for oil palm fruit delivered to the milling companies. A
 Memorandum of Understanding was agreed between OPIC, PML and the respective milling
 companies laying out the terms and conditions of the infill program. Interest rates were
 capped at 8 percent and loans included a three year grace period before loan repayments
 became due to accommodate the long gestation period planting and the first harvest. Interest
 will accrue during the grace period and be capitalized on a semi-annual basis.

 In addition, the capacities of OPIC to systematically improve the documentation and filing
 of consultation records were enhanced as part of the infill program. However, this process
 was gradual and was only firmly grounded towards the end of 2013, with the acceleration of
 the pace of new plantings.

 Road Rehabilitation Due to cost escalation, as of December 2013, a reduced length of
 205.4 km of roads were upgraded through spot repairs and drainage. Under this framework,
 a total length of 43 km was graveled, which could be considered to be fully rehabilitated. In
 addition, the revised target of completing 13 km incomplete roads in Oro Province has also
 been met.

 The demonstration of 50 community contracts highlighted the potential for using rural
 communities to undertake small maintenance works, to help prolong the life of the road
 infrastructure. Community road maintenance not only helps in providing extra income to
 the community group, it also helps strengthen ownership, hence improving the chances that
 the infrastructure will continue to benefit from the community maintenance over time.


                                                                                             34
The REU established, maintained and handed over to OPIC a detailed asset management
database containing the inventory, condition and indicative repair cost of the entire
networks of smallholder access roads in the 3 project areas comprising approximately 2,000
km. The database also provided the means of prioritizing annual maintenance and rehab
interventions through a simple comparative cost/benefit analysis.

The first Oro incomplete road package had to be completed by OPID using force account
after the contract had to be terminated. The successful completion of this work
demonstrated that force account can be successfully applied in the right conditions.

To secure consistent funding for oil palm road maintenance, a Road Maintenance Trust
Fund (RMTF) study was completed. The study allowed for an element of user pay
mechanism, where stakeholders take ownership of the program. A part of the study,
extensive consultations were held in the three project areas.             The report made
recommendations for smallholder farmers, milling companies and the Government of PNG
(GoPNG) to contribute to the RMTF. However, the proposed levels of contributions to the
fund are still to be endorsed by all parties involved. The study proposed that GoPNG
contribute the full cost of the one-time road rehabilitation (K 60 million) and 80 percent of
the annual maintenance cost of K 50 million. The remaining 20 percent would be covered
by the mills and the growers in the ratio of 15 percent for the mills and 5 percent for the
growers.

The RMTF has not yet been implemented as designed, although some road maintenance
activities continued after the Project closed. As part of transitory road maintenance
arrangements, SADP facilitated the purchase of three graders for each project site to
facilitate road maintenance until the RMTF is institutionalized. Some of the oil palm
stakeholders, particularly the milling companies, have recommended the use of in-house
maintenance equipment for road maintenance in the project areas because they are expected
to be generally more economical over tendering for maintenance contracts. While final
arrangements are still to be made, it is likely that a combination of in-house road
maintenance with outsourcing of some specialized maintenance work would deliver
superior results, both in terms of cost-effectiveness and speed/quality of the works.

The graders are owned by OPIC and will be operated by the milling companies under an
MOA. The RMTF provided the basis for a Public Investment Project (PIP) submission for
K70 million in the 2014 budget of which only K10.2 million was allocated.

Support to emergency road repairs prior to effectiveness. SADP helped repair damaged
roads in the aftermath of the 2007 cyclone Guba in Oro province. About 740 smallholder
blocks regained access for their FFB collection as a result of the repairs undertaken. As the
project was not effective, the co-financier (PNGSDP) advanced the funds for the emergency
works (repairs of culverts, etc.) from the budget allocated for the Oro incomplete roads and
these were later adjusted by IDA paying for one of the packages of the Oro incomplete
roads.



                                                                                            35
Extension Service: Significant investments were made to upgrade OPIC’s extension
delivery by increasing the number of extension officers (28 new extension staff plus an
internationally recruited Extension Specialist were hired under the project), by improving
the mobility of extension officers (through the purchase of new vehicles and motorcycles),
through extensive training for OPIC staff and growers associations, and through
communications upgrades (for example through the mobile phone closed user group setup
in Hoskins). A major reorganization of OPIC’s extension services commenced in 2011 and
the reorganization implementation began in early 2012. However, the reorganization was
not fully supported by the milling companies as it was seen as an expansion of OPIC’s role
and was to a large extent abandoned by late 2012.

A number of frameworks and processes were put in place to support the extension efforts,
which includes a consultation framework and a communication strategy, both completed
and operationalized as part of project activities. The project has also established an oil palm
grower curriculum (planting approval process, financial literacy and oil palm agronomy),
and smallholder block inspection protocols have been put in place, which helped enhance
communication between growers and OPIC staff.

Component 2: Local Governance and Community Participation

This Component was dropped.

Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Support

Building OPIC’s Capacity:
The project financed training of OPIC staff in project management, financial management
and procurement. In addition, relevant staffs were trained on Environmental and Social
safeguards to meet RSPO guidelines and to facilitate the planting approval and road
maintenance works. The project also financed purchase of vehicles, office and
telecommunication equipment, and the MIS to encompass smallholder database.
Improvements were made to housing for extension staff in OPIC villages; two new houses
were constructed and four houses were repaired in Hoskins. Nine (9) were repaired in
Bialla, and another three houses were repaired in Popondetta (Oro) project sites. Some
furniture and white good were also purchased for OPIC villages and offices.

Several critical studies were completed under the project including the environmental and
social audits; the effluent baseline study and follow-up audit; a smallholder engagement
strategy and the stream arthropod indicator study undertaken by PNGOPRA; and the RMTF
design study. The capacity of the Growers Associations was strengthened and an MIS
system established.

SADP supported the FFB price formula. This review was necessary because the previous
review dated back to 2001 and followed earlier reviews in 1990, 1996, and 1998. Because
of the milling companies’ monopsony relation to the growers, the price review is a very
sensitive issue. While the growers generally felt that the review was well overdue and that
the review should result in an increase in the price they received for their FFB, the milling
companies saw the formula as a fair, were worry about the privacy of their operations cost,
                                                                                              36
and considered that the review would only generate a limited value added. OPIC
management was successful in reconciling the positions and the review was finally agreed.
The terms of reference for this consultancy were approved the Department of Agriculture in
October 2010 and expressions of interest were advertised. However, in late 2010, an
objection was raised by the Independent Consumer and Competition Commission (ICCC)
on the allegation that OPIC/SADP will participating in a price fixing scheme through the
review. The review was then put on hold on ICCC demand, and was only allowed to
proceed after a conference was held in September 2012 on the issues between ICCC, OPIC
and smallholder growers. Expressions of Interest were called in November and received in
January 2013, but the contract was only approved on August 27, 2013, mainly due to
delayed CSTB approval. Due to the delays, it was not possible to complete all activities
scheduled under the contract before the project closed. With the Bank advice, a separate
agreement was entered into between OPIC and the Institute of National Affairs (INA)
whereby INA had agreed to oversee the FFB Price Formula Review and Audit after SADP
closed. The agreement was successfully executed, and INA has been working to ensure the
implementation of the revised formula, including the revival for commodity review
committee for regular monitoring and audit of the formula.

Appendix 1 presents the project’s results framework.




                                                                                         37
                Appendix 1: Results Framework and Monitoring (Post-Restructuring)
                    Papua New Guinea: PNG Smallholder Development Project

Project Development Objective (PDO): The Project Development Objective is to increase, in a sustainable manner, the
level of involvement of targeted communities in their local development through measures aimed at increasing oil palm
revenue and local participation.

Revised Project Development Objective (PDO): The PDO was not revised

                                               D=Dropped



                                        Core
                                               C=Continue     Unit of                        End      Results        %
  PDO Level Results Indicators*                N= New
                                                                             Baseline
                                                              Measure                       Target   Achieved     Achieved
                                               R=Revised
Indicator One:                                 C            Kina             K75.1      K96          K287.5       131% for
Increase in smallholder income from                                          million    million      million in   2013.
oil palm production                                                                                  2011,
                                                                                                     K193.0
                                                                                                     million in
                                                                                                     2012, and
                                                                                                     K125.4
                                                                                                     million in
                                                                                                     2013.
Indicator Two:                                 D

Increase in the level of funds and
resources invested by local
communities to their local
development
                                                INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Result (Component One):
Increased smallholder revenues from oil palm production in an environmentally sound manner
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One):

Intermediate Result indicator One:                          Tons/hectare     15.2       15%-19%      23.7 t/ha    154%
Increase in smallholder yields               C                                          increase     (54%)
Intermediate Result indicator Two:                          Kilometers       0          190.0 km     223.1 km     117%
Kilometers of road                           N
rehabilitated/upgraded
Intermediate Result indicator Three:                        Audit            0          2            3            150%
Social and Environmental Audits              N              Report
completed
Intermediate Result indicator Four:                         Numbers          0          1500         1500         100%
Number of growers trained in                 C
sustainable production practices
Intermediate Result indicator:
Decrease in FFB losses due to road-          D
related collection problems
Intermediate Result indicator:
Decrease in the transport costs along        D
rehabilitated roads
Intermediate Result indicator Four:
Decrease in number of non-
compliance incidents from                    D
environmental audit
Intermediate Result (Component Two):
Improved community participation and local governance in the project areas
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two):
Component was dropped


                                                                                                                         38
                                                D=Dropped




                                         Core
                                                C=Continue   Unit of                      End         Results          %
  PDO Level Results Indicators*                 N= New
                                                                           Baseline
                                                             Measure                     Target      Achieved       Achieved
                                                R=Revised
Intermediate Result indicator:
Percentage of people in targeted
villages satisfied with their level of
                                                D
participation in local decision making
processes at ward and LLG level

Intermediate Result indicator:
Number of sub-projects commenced,
successfully completed and                      D
maintained

Intermediate Result indicator:
Level of contributions to sub-projects          D
mobilized from local sources

            *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)




                                                                                                                         39
                             Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis 17


1. Introduction

The development objective of the project was to increase, in a sustainable manner, the level of
involvement of targeted communities in their local development through measures aimed at
increasing oil palm revenue and local participation. The project had three main components: (i)
Improvement in smallholder productivity; (ii) Enhancing capacity for local governance and
community participation; and (iii) Project management and institutional support. With the aim
smallholder productivity, the project envisaged two investment activities: in-fill planting of
smallholder oil palm and construction and maintenance of rural roads for collecting Fresh Fruit
Bunches (FFB) and promoting timely harvesting and processing of FFB.

The original project objectives under the first component were: (i) infill planting of 9,000 ha
along existing access roads; (ii) upgrading and reconstruction of about 550 km of provincial
access roads; and (iii) improving extension and research services for oil palm development. The
project was later restructured and the original target of infill planting was scaled down to 2,500
ha, which represents only 28% of the original target. By December 2013, 978 hectares (39.1% of
the revised target) had been planted (11% of the original target). The revised targets and
achievements for infill planting at project completion are as follows:

Table 1: Project targets for infill planting and achievements
 Project Area               Revised targets            Achievement                        Percentage
                                    (ha)                  (ha) 18                          achieved
 Hoskins                           1130                    144                              12.7%
 Bialla                             520                    254                              48.8%
 Popondetta                         850                    580                              68.2%
 Total                             2500                    978                              39.1%

The new infill plantings as they become mature will have higher yields and will thus increase the
overall productivity and incomes from the plantation. Oil palm has a gestation period of 3-4
years before the new plantings begin to yield; it reaches stable yield levels in about 6-7 years.

The original target for road construction and maintenance was also scaled down at restructuring,
from 550 km to a revised target of 190 km. As of December 2013, 205.4 km of road update was
completed as spot repairing; 43 km of the upgraded roads were fully graveled. The road
construction took place in 2012 and 2013, following significant initial delays in road
rehabilitation works and overall project implementation. The road rehabilitation facilitated


17
   Figures used in the economic analysis are slightly less than the final figures reported in Annex 2. For example,
infill planting area in this section amounted to 978ha, representing 39.1% of the revised target; final achievement is
1006 ha, which is 40.2% of this target. Revising the economic analysis with the new figures would marginally
change estimates (upward) but this would not alter the main conclusions of the analysis.
18
   This corresponds to results achieved as of December 2013. The latest figures, as of May 2014 are slightly higher,
1,006ha, but the difference does not significantly affect the results of the economic and financial analyses.

                                                                                                                  40
timely harvest and thus higher output, as well as timely processing and higher oil quality; it also
reduced transport costs.

Due to poor implementation progress, the second component to improve local governance and
community participation was dropped during project restructuring.

2. Financial analysis of smallholder oil palm development

The financial analysis provides evidence as to whether the financial investment in the project is
recovered. It provides an indication of the financial sustainability of the project. The financial
analysis is done for one-hectare oil palm plantation using the data available at the time of project
completion.

Oil palm is a perennial crop with a gestation period 19 of 3-4 years, with full and stable yield
reached in 7-8 years. The economic life of the plantation is about 27 years. Since the project got
delayed the initial plantings were done after May, 2011 and these new plantings have not yet
reached the mature age and stable yields. Hence, it is too early to estimate the yields from the in-
fill plantings done under the project.

2.1 Assumptions
Assumptions made in the analysis refer to (a) smallholder yields, (b) fertilizer application, (c)
labor input, (d) material costs, (e) the extent of intercropping food crops around young palms,
and (f) the farm gate price.

a. Smallholder yields: New plantings under projects are still in gestation, so data on actual yields
could not be obtained. Projected yields from the new plantings based on data provided by OPIC
in Hoskins, Bialla and Popondeta project areas. These yield projections assume that smallholders
will follow fairly average management practices including fertilizer application following the
recommendations of extension agents provided under the project.

b. Fertilizer application: The project has encouraged smallholders to apply fertilizers and follow
average management levels. The smallholders are assumed to continue to use average levels of
fertilizer application and plantation management. The fertilizer inputs are priced at the farm gate
price.

c. Labor input: Labor costs for planting, plantation management and harvesting are computed
using technical coefficients on labor requirements provided by OPIC based on data collected
from smallholders. Labor is then valued at the minimum wage rate for unskilled labor in PNG.
Although there is high rate of unemployment, it is assumed that the agricultural wage rate in the
local labor markets is around the minimum wage rate for unskilled labor.

d. Material costs: Other major costs for planting and maintenance are the costs of implements
and tools used. The costs of those material inputs are computed based on required inputs’ data
provided by the OPIC.


19
     Gestation period refers the period from planting to first harvest.

                                                                                                    41
e. Intercropping/raising food crops around young palms: When newly planted palms are young
before the full canopy is established, farmers plant annual food crops as intercrops around the
young palms. These intercrops generate additional revenues for the smallholders, which are
considered as additional benefits from the project.

f. Farm gate price: Smallholders sell FFB to the milling company after harvest at the farm gate
by the roadside. The milling company pays the farmers for the FFBs at a price derived based on
the palm oil price in the international market. In order to do the financial analysis, we have used
the actual prices received by the farmers for the FFBs in years 2012 and 2013. For the future
years we have used the FFB prices tied to the World Bank’s commodity price forecasts for palm
oil. In general, prices have increased significantly since appraisal. 20

2.2     Financial measures of project worth

The Financial rate of return to infill planting is based on a standardized project costs and benefits
of one hectare under smallholder plantation management practices (details shown in Appendix 1).
The costs of infill planting establishment and maintenance are derived from the PAD and
updated with OPIC costs data as well as data current available price. The returns to infill planting
include the returns from FFB harvested and the revenues from planting annuals around young
palms in the first three years until the full canopy is established. The opportunity cost of land for
alternate competing uses is also included as costs.

The results indicate relatively high returns to the smallholder oil palm plantation in the
smallholder (Table 3). The Internal Rates of Return (IRR) ranges from 27.9% in Hoskins to
22.6% in Oro with an average of 24.6%. The high returns are in line with the appraised levels of
returns in the PAD, estimated at 27%, 24% and 22% for the three projects, respectively. The
Food and Agriculture Organization also reports similar returns as high as 25 percent and above
for oil palm development projects in Hoskins and other regions in Papua New Guinea. With
increasing demands for palm oil from India and China, the prospects for oil-palm production and
the industry continues to be good.

These returns remain robust with drought-induced fall in yields and market-induced fall in prices.
The rates of return show that oil palm plantation in the smallholder sector yield very good returns
on the investment under average management conditions. The Internal Rates of Return (IRR) in
Table 3 ranges from 27.9% in Hoskins to 22.6% in Oro with an average of 24.6%. Such high
returns are in agreement with the expected rates of return presented in the PAD at the time of
project development. Food and Agriculture Organization also reports similar returns as high as
25 percent and above for oil palm development projects in Hoskins and other regions in Papua
New Guinea. With increasing demands for palm oil from India and China, the prospects for oil-
palm production and the industry continues to be good.




20
  Compared to 2007 when the project were appraised, world price for crude palm increased by 4% in 2011, 28% in
2012 and 10% in 2013.

                                                                                                           42
In order to analyze the returns under alternative scenarios that may arise from yield and price
risks, we have also presented sensitivity analysis under two scenarios. The motivation for this
analysis is that, in addition to timely harvesting and transportation, returns from oil palm in PNG
depend on the yield and prices for FFB. The yields in turn depend on timely and adequate
rainfall. The smallholders in PNG are price takers and the farm-gate prices are determined by
prices in the international market. The first scenario considers the case when there are variations
in annual rainfall resulting in fall in yields by 50 percent in every five years 21 . Under this
scenario, the rates of return ranged from 19.8 in Oro to 24.4 in Hoskins. The benefit/cost ratios
dropped marginally but the benefits covered costs even under conditions of falling FFB yields.

The second scenario combines the above scenario with an annual decline in farm gate price by 5
percent. In this scenario, falling yield and prices, the rates of return drops to 14.2 percent in Oro
to 20.3 percent in Hoskins with an average of 17.7 percent. Thus, the above analysis shows that
even under moderate shocks in yields and prices the investment in oil palm would continue to
yield robust returns.

Table 3: Financial analysis: Returns to investment in infill (one hectare)
                                                                  Net Present worth
                                    IRR           B/C ratio          (Kina/hectare)
 Standard one hectare model
 Hoskin                            27.9%             2.03                16,249
 Bialla                            23.0%             1.69                10.823
 Oro                               22.6%             1.68                10.694
 Average                           24.6%             1.80                12,589
 Sensitivity analysis: Reduction in yield due to poor rain
 Hoskin                            24.6%             1.77                12,123
 Bialla                            20.2%             1.48                 7,508
 Oro                               19.8%             1.47                 7,373
 Average                           21.6%             1.57                 9,001
 Sensitivity analysis: Reduction in yield (as above) and prices falling at an annual
 rate of 5%
 Hoskin                            20.3%             1.35                 5,578
 Bialla                            18.3%             1.28                 4,350
 Oro                               14.2%             1.09                 1,391
 Average                           17.7%             1.24                 3,773




21
  It is assumed that there could be shortfall in rainfall in every five years resulting in yields falling by about 50
percent.

                                                                                                                        43
3. Economic analysis

The economic analysis is for the whole project, in the absence of reliable information on specific
benefits and overhead costs per project areas.

3.1    Project benefits and costs

Benefits. Project benefits are estimated using the incremental benefits approach by comparing
the returns with and without the project. The incremental benefits included the following:
incomes from newly planted infill areas (978 ha are described earlier); increased harvests and
yields of FFBs from existing palm oil stands; savings in FFB mill collection fleet as a result of
road improvements; and additional collection from Oro scheme as a result of road improvements.

a. Incomes from the newly planted oil palm trees: Total benefits derive from extrapolating the
   net benefits of the one-hectare standard model the total area planted (978 ha);

b. Additional returns from more systematic harvesting and FFB collection activities as a result
   of the project: The rehabilitated road network in project areas (from mid-2012) is expected to
   increase timely harvest and collection of FFB from smallholders, thereby increasing returns
   to the smallholder farmers in the project areas. More importantly, use of improved
   management practices, including fertilizer use (facilitated by milling companies), is also
   expected to be a major driver of the increase overall harvests of FFB from smallholders. Data
   on returns of smallholders in the project areas were collected for the years before the project
   and after the project. The smallholder’s return in year 2007 is used as the baseline. The
   smallholder returns in years 2011 through 2013 were compared to the above baseline and the
   incremental/additional returns are assumed to accrue to the project activities 22.

c. Saving in transport costs and savings to the mill collection-fleet: Improved roads are
   expected to reduce transportation costs of the mill collection-fleet and to facilitate timely
   transport of FFB to processing centers. From mid-2012 onwards, the improved roads also
   reduced the maintenance costs of the collection fleet. Both savings (transport and
   maintenance costs) may be considered as additional benefits from the project investments.

d. Additional assumptions. Many exogenous factors have contributed to the increased in
   smallholder oil palm incomes. Appendix 2 is an attempt to separate the impact of the
   exogenous factors (namely price) from the impact of the project related factor (production).
   Based on the analysis, approximately 40% of the impacts on incomes can be attributed to the
   Project. Hence this analysis assumes that only 40 percent of the increase in smallholder
   incomes observed could be attributed to the project.




22
  Since we do not have similar data from another area comparable to the project area without similar interventions
we could not do a difference-in-difference analysis to confirm increase in smallholder revenues as a result of the
project.


                                                                                                               44
Project costs. The actual project expenditures obtained from the implementing agency are used
in this analysis. The total project costs were $23.28 million over a period of five years.

3.2.     Measures of project worth
The analysis showed that the investment in smallholder oil palm development in Papua New
Guinea is a very lucrative investment. The project’s Economic Rate of Return was 18.4% and
the Benefit: Cost ratio was 1.35. The Net Present Value of project investments worked out to
US$12.7 million. These results suggest that smallholder oil palm development is a lucrative
business in the country under favorable output prices and weather conditions that result in
favorable yields. The results justify the project strategy to develop smallholder oil palm through
infill planting, development of rural roads, improved management through extension activities
and timely harvesting and collection of FFBs. Such investments could raise smallholder incomes
and could have significant impacts on poverty.

3.3    Sensitivity analysis

Two scenarios are considered for the sensitivity analysis: (i) yields assumed to fall every five
years by 50 percent below the average levels; and (ii) FFB prices fall at an annual rate of by 5
percent in addition to the fall in yields by 50 percent in every five years. The results, shown in
Table 4, reinforce earlier conclusion that smallholder oil palm undertaking is a lucrative business,
even under stressful weather and price conditions. The analysis further shows the significant
impacts of access to rural roads and timely harvest and collection of FFBs on returns to oil palm
production in smallholder sector in Papua New Guinea.

Table 4: Summary measures of project worth
                          Economic Rate             Benefit/Cost        Net Present
                             of Return                 ratio              Worth
                                (%)                                    (Million Kina)
 Base case                      17.3                    1.35               12.69
 Sensitivity analysis
 Scenario 1                     14.3                    1.14                 4.11
 Scenario 2                     26.6                    1.04                 3.42

These results are in agreement with the ex-ante analysis presented in the Project Appraisal
Document. It may be noted that there were significant delays in project implementation in the
beginning and consequent restructuring. When the project was restructured, the investment was
scaled down and the second component was dropped. However, the results of the economic
analysis shows robust returns even when the project was scaled down which strengthens the case
for investment in smallholder oil palm sector in the country.

Potential poverty reduction impacts. The robust returns from oil palm development in the
smallholder sector shows opportunities for increasing smallholder incomes and poverty reduction
in the country. Proper support to the existing smallholder oil palm establishments, following
RSPO guidelines, is expected to raise incomes and reduce poverty.




                                                                                                45
Appendix 1: Smallholder oil palm plantation: Financial model (Kina per hectare)

                                                                                            Production years
          Year
                         1       2      3      4      5      6      7     8     9    10    11    12     13      14     15     16     17    18    19     20     21     22     23
Costs
Labor costs             618     641    412    204    242    278    314   350   386   424   462   497   532     552    561    561    561    561   561   561    561    561    523
Equipment & M aterial
                        1657    114    500    294    294    306    294   419   463   294   319   313   294     321    456    444    321    306   294   294    333    294    444
costs
Total costs             2275    756    912    498    536    584    608   769   848   718   782   810   826     874    1017   1005   882    867   855   855    894    855    967
Yield profile (FFB,
tones/ha)
Hoskins                  0       0      0      3      5      8     10    12    14    16    18    20     22      24     24     24     24    24    24     24     24     24     22
Bialla & Oro             0       0      0      3      5      5      7     9    10    12    14    16     18      20     21     23     23    23    23     23     23     23     23
Gross income (K/ha)
Hoskins                  0       0      0     1097   1253 1389 2003 2434 2870 3328 3765 4222           4638    4888   4992   4992   4992   4992 4992   4992   4992   4992   4532
Bialla                   0       0      0     1097   1114   920 1555 1768 2142 2538 2912 3286          3682    4056   4430   4680   4784   4784 4784   4784   4784   4784   4784
Oro                      0       0      0     1006   1012   859 1413 1793 2172 2573 2953 3333          3733    4113   4493   4746   4851   4851 4851   4851   4851   4851   4851
Net income (including
from intercrops)

Hoskins                 -2275   -256   -412   1099   217    305    895   1164 1522 2110 2483 2913      3312    3514   3475   3487   3610   3625 3637   3637   3598   3637   3065
Bialla                  -2275   -256   -412   1099    78    -163   447   499   794   1320 1630 1977    2355    2682   2914   3175   3402   3417 3429   3429   3390   3429   3317
Oro                     -2275   -256   -412   1008   -24    -224   305   -14   824   1355 1671 2023    1287    2739   2976   3240   3469   2029 3496   3496   3457   3496   1929
All regions             -2275   -256   -412   1068   91     -27    549   729   1047 1595 1928 2304     2692    2978   3121   3301   3493   3509 3520   3520   3482   3520   3255




                                                                                                                                                                              46
Appendix 2: Estimated Average Contribution of Price and Production to Monthly
Changes in Smallholder Oil Palm Incomes in Oro, Hoskin and Bialla Project Areas 23

Data. Smallholder oil palm income depends on both price and production. Both price and
production are further determined by other factors, such as exchange rate for prices, and weather
or road conditions for production. Trends in Oil palm Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) prices and
productions show a steady decline since 2011, with only slight reversal in price trends in 2013.
Details for the three project areas are shown below.




Compared to the baseline, smallholder oil palm growers’ incomes have increased, as reported in
the report. These increases are driven by the combined effects of production and price changes.
In order to understand how smallholder oil palm incomes change as productions and prices
change, the analyses uses OPIC monthly data on the three variables from 2011 to 2013.

Methodology. A simple regression technique using a robust, zero constant, ordinary least square
estimation was used to compute the average contributions of price and production changes to
observed average changes in incomes. The dependent variable in this regression is the percentage
change in monthly oil palm incomes of each Project area, and the two independent variables are


23
     Data and regression estimates available upon request.

                                                                                              47
the corresponding percentage changes of monthly FFB prices and productions. The data on
monthly smallholder oil palm incomes, FFB prices and productions were obtained from OPIC.
All estimates are highly significant at 1% level, and the use of robust estimates on differenced
data minimizes biases associated with autocorrelation.

Results of the Analysis
Oro Project Area
                                                 Coefficient    Mean      Estimated   Contribution to total
Variables                                         Estimate      value       value           change
% Change in monthly revenue                                    -0.04702   -0.04557           100%
% Change in monthly FFB price                     1.02514**    -0.02281   -0.02339            51%
% Change in monthly production                    1.04413**    -0.02125   -0.02218            49%
Notes: Number of observations: 33, from January 2011 to October 2013


Hoskin Project Area
                                                 Coefficient    Mean      Estimated   Contribution to total
Variables                                         Estimate      value       value           change
% Change in monthly revenue                                    -0.04302   -0.04458           100%
% Change in monthly FFB price                     0.99896**    -0.02426   -0.02423            54%
% Change in monthly production                    0.99176**    -0.02052   -0.02035            46%
Notes: Number of observations: 33, from January 2011 to October 2013

Bialla Project Area
                                                 Coefficient    Mean      Estimated   Contribution to total
Variables                                         Estimate      value       value           change
% Change in monthly revenue                                    -0.04026   -0.04409           100%
% Change in monthly FFB price                     1.01895**    -0.03079   -0.03137            71%
% Change in monthly production                    0.98415**    -0.01292   -0.01272            29%
Notes: Number of observations: 29, from January 2011 to June 2013


Summary Contribution of Price and Production Changes in the 3 Project Areas
Average contribution of price change (3 projects areas)                                       59%
Average contribution of production change (3 projects areas)                                  41%

Results and limitations. The analysis only provides an approximation of the average
contribution of production and price changes to average monthly change in smallholder oil palm
incomes. On average, 41% of such change can be attributed to changes in production. The
analysis does not provide direct evidence of the project’s contribution to increased incomes. This
contribution is inferred from the knowledge that: (a) production increase does contribute to
income increase, in the magnitude of 4 Kina for each 10 Kina increase in income; and (b) a
number of project’s achievements, in terms of extensions support and road rehabilitation are
strongly correlated with increase in production. An analysis based on difference-in-difference of
impacts, based on a more rigorous collection of project data, would have yielded a much robust
estimates of the impacts of the project, but this approximation is a first step in the right direction.


                                                                                                              48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
             Names                                      Title                    Unit
Mona Sur                        Lead Agriculture Economist/TTL                  ECSAR
Kofi Nouve                      Senior Rural Development Specialist             EASNS
Allan Tobalbal Oliver           Operations Officer                              EASNS
James Orehmie                   Senior Environmental
                                                                                SASDI
Monday                          Engineer
John R. Butler                  Lead Social Development Specialist              ECSOQ
Oliver Braedt                   Sector Leader                                   AFTSN
Christopher Robert Fabling      Senior Financial Management Specialist          EASFM
Stephen Paul Hartung            Financial Management Specialist                 EASFM
Olga Hoxon Rizo                 Program Assistant                               EASER
Erik Caldwell Johnson           Senior Operations Officer                       EASNS
Angela Nyawira Khaminwa         Senior Social Development Specialist            AFTCS
William Casmir Mandui           Operations Officer                              EASNS
Cristiano Costa e Silva Nunes   Senior Procurement Specialist                   EASR1
Nicolas Perrin                  Senior Social Development Specialist            ECSSO
Michelle Lisa Chen              Program Assistant                               SASDO
Gitanjali Ponnambalam           Country Program Assistant                       EACNF
 Barbara Verardo                Senior Rural Development Specialist             SASDL
 Philippe Fernand Boyer         Consultant                                      EASNS
John Lowsby                     Consultant, Infrastructure Engineer               -
Tom Vigus                       Consultant Environmental Specialist               -
Tim Armitage                    Consultant, Roads Engineer                        -
Joe Nagy                        Agriculture Economist                             -
Christiphe Ribes-Ros            Consultant, Social Development Specialist         -
Nuno Santos                     Consultant, Economist                             -
                                Consultant, Social & Environmental Safeguards
Jonas Bautista                                                                    -
                                Specialist
Robert Crooks                   Consultant                                        -
Guzman Garcia-Rivero            Consultant                                        -
Lars Lund                       Consultant                                        -




                                                                                        49
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                   USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                  23.23                         125.22
  FY03                                               35.11                         160.65
  FY04                                               24.65                         119.58
  FY05                                               27.20                         225.69
  FY06                                               36.70                         257.95
  FY07                                               19.24                          67.50
  FY08                                               23.23                         125.22
                                Total:              166.13                         956.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                                0.00                          19.84
  FY09                                               12.91                         132.20
  FY10                                               22.32                         293.71
  FY11                                               13.83                         143.00
  FY12                                               20.94                         225.60
  FY13                                               10.44                         234.09
  FY14                                                9.64                         101.18
                                Total:               90.08                       1,149.61

                          Grand Total:              256.21                       2,106.19




                                                                                                    50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      51
                   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Consultations on the draft ICR were carried out in the project areas and among representatives of
project stakeholders in Port Moresby on December 12, 2013. This annex summarizes some of
the key perceptions, issues identified, and recommendations as presented and discussed with
stakeholders. Some of the statements may not be accurate, and may be exaggerated, and one
should refer to the main ICR for a factual treatment of these issues.

1. Perception on Major Issues
The overall perception from various stakeholders—including beneficiary farmers, OPIC, PNG
Oil Palm Research Association, Milling Companies, and various departments in charge of
Environment and Conservation, Agriculture and Livestock, National Planning and Monitoring as
well as Treasury—was that the project had a good design, and the project objectives were
relevant and well defined during project preparation. The Project’s focus on roads reconstruction
and maintenance, in order to stimulate increased FFB production through more frequent harvests
(and higher yields), adoption of improved farm management practices, was equally relevant. The
ultimate design goals were to optimize the use of space, by increasing yield per hectare,
production per kilometer road, and greater production of mills in each Project area. Stakeholders
have also recognized that the Project concept drew from past experiences, building especially on
the remnants from previous ORO project by WB from 1990s.

While recognized the relevance of the design, stakeholders also highlighted some of the main
issues that have crippled Project implementation. The first oft-mentioned issue was the long
implementation delays, mostly linked to procurement challenges, as well as difficulties in getting
timely responses from the Government and the Bank on critical project implementation issues.
The second issue was the low budget of the project, particularly following the strong
appreciation of Kina which diminished the resources available (in Kina) to support project
activities. The Kina appreciation effect has been exacerbated by substantial increases in costs
(largely linked to limited competition), thereby significantly reducing the scope of the road
construction and rehabilitation work. The suspension of Bank missions, following the issues
around the FCPF Project, was also perceived to be untimely, since it deprived SADP of the
opportunity to proactively tackle and address issues with full Bank support.

2. Institutional Capacity and Coordination
The private sector demonstrated strong engagement during the concept and inception phases of
the Project, and was supportive of the process. However, the support greatly phased away during
project implementation due many reasons, including disagreements around the perceived role of
OPIC and the scaled down scope of road rehabilitation, especially in Oro Province. A result, the
Project’s relationship with the private sector has not been fully effective, with a private sector
stakeholders feeling most of time left out of major discussions and decisions, and using in turn
their power to undermine these decisions.

Weak Oversight and Institutional Support. OPIC as an implementing agency was weak, and
staff were not technically equipped to manage projects the size of SADP. OPIC had no proper
Board, and National Government was largely disengaged. The poor performance of the public
sector service delivery (extension and roads services), the inordinate delays from Government

                                                                                               52
combined with numerous internal issues on OPIC side, have all contributed to the overall poor
Project performance. The lack of Government counterpart funding at critical junctures of Project
life, and the limited commitment of the Departments in charge of overseeing project
implementation resulted in OPIC being orphaned.

Systems and Processes. OPIC found the World Bank procurement processes difficult. Lack of
procurement expertise within OPIC and difficulties in recruiting procurement specialists caused
delay and mismanagement of procurement processes, including contracting individuals and firms
to undertake Project activities. Lack of coordination between PNG Microfinance Ltd, OPIC, the
Milling Companies and the growers resulted in a very slow loan processing. A number of
systems and processes were put in place, but it took quite a while for OPIC staff to learn and
make them work. The major one was following the Planting Approval Form (PAF), which
involved the CLUA and the loan processing approvals. These required well-coordinated teams
from all parties involved to ensure that the proposed blocks for infills met the requirements.

Communication. There was lack of clarity on roles and responsibilities of government at
provincial and national levels, and at OPIC, which resulted in communication and coordination
difficulties. The implementation also suffered from lack of proper operational oversight and
management of consultants by OPIC. There was no communication between OPIC Headquarters
and OPIC field officers were considered a major drawback on the project. OPIC field officers
were not kept updated with regards to mission aide-memoires for actions to be taken on the
issues identified during the missions. Prevalence of distrust and dissatisfaction amongst the
OPIC and SADP staff – issues of pay and benefits, and work load were among the issues that
contributed to the poor implementation progress.

3. Suggestions and Recommendations from Stakeholders
Many suggestions and recommendations were noted during consultations and the stakeholder
workshop. The recurrent ones include the following:

     •   Some of the positive outcomes of the Project included: (i) the establishment of
         management information system (MIS), which despite its limitations, was useful in
         tracking project’s results; (ii) adherence to RSPO certification guidelines, through the use
         of SADP PAF as environmental and social safeguards requirements; (iii) Part of SADP
         legacy was to contribute to terms of reference for updating the Code of Practice for oil
         palm processing led by Department of Environment and Conservation. This update was
         required under the Effluent Action Plan.

     •   Areas in which improvements could have been made included: (i) It could have been
         more effective to use an independent project management unit apart from OPIC to
         manage the Project; and (ii) Project should have started the infill program only after
         OPIC had qualified staff, which would ensure better and more timely project
         implementation. 24



24
  The infill program started only after the first extension specialist was hired. There issue may be more with the
competence as well as the motivation of extension officers.

                                                                                                                     53
•   Other suggestions included: (i) PML loan process took too long delay; it needs to be
    approved at Project site level, for speedier implementation and procurement of seedlings.
    The process could have been speedier, according to PML, were it given direct
    responsibility of loan disbursement, after PAF and other regulatory standards were met;
    and (ii) “When World Bank projects come in and when they go out, they leave untreated
    wounds”. There is a need for more consultations to understand field level problems and
    frustrations with expectations that were never met.




                                                                                          54
         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR 25

1. Project Objective
The development objective of the Project is to increase, in a sustainable manner, the level of
involvement of targeted communities in their local development through measures aimed at
increasing oil palm revenue and local participation.

Good roads are crucial for oil palm. The last World Bank project in the PNG smallholder oil
palm sector, prior to SADP, was the Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Development (OSOPDP) Project
1993-2001. This project more than doubled the planted hectares of smallholder oil palm and
vastly increased the road network in Northern Province.

Starting from the end of OSOPDP consultations held with the sector stakeholders, the
overwhelming feedback received from smallholder farmers and from the companies was –
establish sustainable road maintenance. Road maintenance has been and continues to be the
number one constraint to smallholder production; i.e. the worst problem for farmers preventing
them from earning more money.

This is where SADP started. The objective was clear to the stakeholders and can be simply stated,
to establish sustainable road maintenance arrangements.

2. Project Design and Effectiveness
The project had a very lengthy and very costly design phase. During this phase there were
consultations held with the stakeholders. However, it appears that the meetings were not well
documented and this ultimately led to an Inspection Panel investigation. The design
encompassed components and subcomponents that were very worthwhile. In hindsight there was
an overestimation of OPIC’s capabilities to implement all the elements of the project. The
unforeseen PNG Kina appreciation, which led to reducing what could have been achieved with
the same budget, would turn out to be very costly, especially for road construction and
rehabilitation works.

Considerable time and effort was wasted trying to obtain the necessary GoPNG and World Bank
approvals. The project and financing agreements were approved by the Bank in June 2007 but
not made effective until January 2009. Getting the Ministers signature was the main delay.

3. Implementation
3.1. Responsiveness of GoPNG and the World Bank
Project Implementation was rated unsatisfactory or moderately unsatisfactory for its entire four
year life. This has created difficulties and rigidities in proactively managing project


25
  “Smallholder Agriculture Development: Project Investment Completion Report”, Prepared by OPIC on behalf of
the Government of PNG. Original version: 13 November 2013; Revised version endorsed by GoPNG on 03 June
2014.




                                                                                                         55
implementation. An extension of the project was sought as early as February 2010. This was
never acted on by the Bank because of the unsatisfactory rating of the project, which was mainly
attributable to lack of Government counterpart funding and poor progress on procurement
matters. In addition, delays in GoPNG and the World Bank response to request have further
compounded these difficulties. For example, project restructuring was agreed in October 2011
but did not become effective until September 2012. Getting the request from Treasury to World
Bank was difficult, and the processing was further delayed because of non-compliance with loan
covenants (overdue OPIC audits). Even a simple reallocation of funds between categories took
Treasury and at the Bank four months to process.

A major problem for SADP has been obtaining audit certificates. Timely presentation of audit
certificates for both the SADP project accounts and for the accounts of OPIC, the implementing
agency, are conditions of the Project Agreement. Compounding the problem of OPIC’s
incapacity has been a staggering lack of urgency at the Auditor General’s Office.

3.2. Procurement and Financial Management
Procurement Specialist: Recruiting and keeping procurement specialists has proved to be
challenging during the project’s first years. The first Procurement Specialist was terminated for
non-performance in October 2010. A short term PS-2 was contracted fairly quickly and the same
candidate was chosen for the long term position. PS-2 signed his contract in February 2011 and
CSTB signed in the same month. By April it became apparent that PS-2 would not be coming to
PNG due to health and cultural reasons. A second short term specialist, PS-3, was contracted.
PS-2 and PS-3 handled most of the procurement activities during 2011 but not having a full time
PS in Moresby was a definite hindrance to implementation. PS-4 recruitment got underway in
May 2011 and the consultant came on board in March 2012. PS-4 helped the project enormously.
Our final PS, the fifth, was also very helpful and because no CSTB involvement was necessary
she was recruited quickly.

Lessons: (1) If it is nearly impossible to recruit PNG staff capable of managing Bank
procurement procedures then perhaps the procedures are too stringent 26; and (2) Projects are to
comply with two independent and sometimes conflicting procurement structures, the Bank’s and
CSTB’s. We perceive that the Bank is not going to be flexible, i.e. submit to CSTB procedures
only. Meanwhile, CSTB is overworked.

Procurement of Goods: The project was declared effective in January 2009 and a road show
conducted in March of that year. Procurement of goods was a major impediment to the project.
The bulk of the materials were not actually received until late in the third quarter of 2011.

Lesson: In a commercial environment a vehicle or computer can be purchased and delivered
within a month. Three quotes, a purchase order, and deliver the goods. If it takes two years to
source critical goods for a project then something is not right with the system.



26
   The problem of ineffective system at OPIC is less linked to the Bank procedures, since other projects faced less
problem at the same time. The problem is closely link to weak capacity at OPIC and a track record in producing sub-
standard procurement documents for review.

                                                                                                                56
The procurement of road fleet to support rehabilitation and maintenance was fundamental to the
project. In late 2011 the Bank acquiesced to the purchase of one grader for each project area,
after having objected earlier to grader purchaser. It is OPIC’s perception that the Bank objects in
principle to financing equipment that is then under the control of a private entity (the milling
companies). It would be useful to reassess stance, particularly in environments where support
could be delivered to smallholders through linkages with the private sector.

Recruitment of Project Staff and Consultants: The project design called for the addition of some
fifty staff to support implementation from year one. The first consultant recruited was the
Procurement Specialist in October 2009 followed by the Project Coordinator in November 2009.
While the loan funds were in place the project could not drawdown due to non-Government
counterpart funding available to disburse the loan funds. There was very little implementation
done by OPIC during 2009.

   •   Project Coordinator: The contract for the Project Coordinator was submitted to CSTB in
       August 2009, and was on short term contracts renewed every three months until finally
       signing his contract by CSTB in April 2010.
   •   Project Engineer: Recognizing that the Project Engineer position was critical to the
       project, recruitment of a short term engineer started in September 2009. The consultant
       started work in July 2010.
   •   Extension Specialist: Refining of the Extension Specialist TORs started in December
       2009 and contents of the TORs were agreed with the Bank by the time the position was
       advertised in July 2010. The position was readvertised in September 2010. The
       evaluation and contract was completed by February 2011 and submitted to CSTB. The
       contract was signed in May 2011. Towards the end of 2012 the Extension Specialist
       decided that he would not extend his contract through 2013. A new Extension Specialist
       was recruited short term so that the contract didn’t have to go to CSTB for approval.
   •   Management Agency for Component 2: OPIC was tasked to recruit a suitable firm to
       manage the implementation of a support program for local level government and
       community groups. By October 2010, there were concerns whether enough time was
       available before the project closure scheduled for December 2012 and the component was
       dropped through project restructuring that became effective in September 2012.
   •   Consulting Engineer: As per the Project Agreement no work could commence on
       infrastructure development until a consulting engineering firm was contracted. While the
       selection process for the consulting firm commenced in December 2009, the contracted
       consultant (KBR) started work in late January 2011, more than a year later.
   •   Environmental and Social Auditors (ESA): the ESA consultancy should have
       commenced in 2010. The contract was executed on the 4th of June 2012. This recruitment
       was complicated by the late addition to the TOR of Palm Oil Mill Effluent sampling and
       reporting arising from the Inspection Panel process. The work performed under this
       contract was generally to a high standard.
   •   Monitoring and Evaluation: The contract was signed in November 2011. This
       consultancy was changed from the planned individual consultant to a firm. The original
       budget for M&E was US$150,000. The final contract value was approximately
       K1.1million, which is 2-3 times the original amount. OPIC believes that this should have


                                                                                                57
       been a fixed price contract rather than a time based contract. After paying 90% of the
       overall contract amount, none of the outputs from the contract were useable.
   •   Road Maintenance Trust Fund: Again, this consultancy was not a quick process. The
       consultancy was changed from an individual consultant to a firm. The revised TORs were
       done by July 2010. Request for Proposals were issued in April 2011. The contract was
       awarded in April 2012 for just over K1 million (approx. US$0.4 million) versus the
       original budget of US$66,000.
   •   FFB Price Review: This consultancy recruitment was probably the most difficult. First
       the Bank wanted it changed from Individual to Firm. The TORs had to be revised and
       agreed to by DAL, the Growers and Milling Companies. The companies were not
       satisfied with the TORs and felt they were forced to accept. Insufficient qualified EOI’s
       were received (no less than six, no more than two from one country). At the same time
       ICCC considered legal action against OPIC which it perceived as violating the ICCC Act
       by supporting a pricing mechanism for FFB. A new EOI’s were called in early December
       and evaluated by February 2013. The proposal was received in May 2013 and the
       contract negotiations concluded in early July 2013. It then took two months for CSTB to
       sign the contract for the negotiated price of K0.8 million (approx. US$0.3 million). The
       original budget was US$66,000.

Lessons: (1) TORs for each of the consulting positions were prepared in the design phase but in
every instance these TOR’s were discarded and re-done at the Banks direction. More care should
be taken in the design phase or the Bank should stick to the design concept, or at least ensure
speedy review of TORs; and (2) OPIC struggled to manage the procurement process on just
about every contract. Procurement capacity must be built from an early stage recognizing that
there is very limited experience in-country.

Financial Management: The OPIC financial controller (FC) was nominated as the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) for SADP in the project design. Although the FC made some
contribution in the early stages, his performance deteriorated steadily until his termination in
2011. At one point the Bank threatened to close the designated account, which would have
crippled the project for at least six months. The Project Coordinator assumed the CFO duties
from mid-2011. Financial management was generally satisfactory from that point with the
exception of the “separation of duties” control, and the problems with audits as noted above.

3.3. Implementation of Project’s Components

Component 1: Smallholder Productivity Enhancement
Road Rehabilitation: Road rehabilitation was the most critical and most costly element of SADP.
It was critical because in the absence of a major rehabilitation of the road networks there was no
possibility of implementing sustainable road maintenance arrangements. Too much maintenance
money would need to be spent on repairing roads that are beyond repair. The rehabilitation
suffered from three main problems.
    • (i) Procurement delays. The Project Engineer was recruited in July 2010 and he
        proceeded to do road surveys and scoping. Without adequate staff, however, he could
        only do so much. When the consulting engineers finally came on board, much of the
        scoping had to be redone due to the wet season. Bidding documents for the first tranche

                                                                                               58
       of road works were prepared and submitted to the Bank in mid-March 2011. The bidding
       documents were passed and tendered at the end of May 2011 and the bid evaluation
       period ran until November 10, 2011. The contract was then quickly submitted to CSTB
       for approval and signature, but was delayed until it was finally signed on the February 24,
       2012. The procurement period was almost one year.
   •   (ii) Lack of counterpart funds. The second two tranches for Bialla and Oro rehabilitation
       were delayed in 2011 because insufficient counterpart funding had been allocated to
       cover the GST component of the contracts.
   •   (iii) Insufficient budget. The 2007 project budget allowed K51.4m to rehabilitate 442
       kilometres. Due mainly to the appreciation of the Kina between 2006 and 2011 the
       available funds for rehabilitation were reduced to K24.4m. In addition, because costs had
       risen so dramatically, the project was only able to achieve 190km of “spot repairs” rather
       than full rehabilitation. (The difference being that under spot repairs only 43 kilometres
       of the 190 was gravelled; full rehabilitation would gravel the entire road.)

Aside from those three issues the road rehabilitation was actually quite successful. The 190
kilometres that was started in 2011/2012 was augmented by additional funding in the last half of
2013. About 24.9km of road was refurbished in Oro and 1.9km with some additional gravelling
was accomplished in Bialla. Overall the work has been very beneficial to a lot of growers.
Measurable results are expected after year end FFB production figures are tallied.

Oro Incomplete Roads: In its significance to a particular subset of growers, the Oro Incomplete
Road element would be the saddest failure of the project. At the end of the Oro Smallholder Oil
Palm Development Project (1993-2001), 105km of road were left unbuilt with the blocks planted.
The growers have suffered for twenty years. Under SADP, PNG Sustainable Development
Program Ltd was to fund the completion of these roads. As with road rehabilitation, this funding
was insufficient. A total of 15.5km was done with the allocated funds. There are approximately
42km of unconstructed road left to build plus another 43km that have some access but are in
need of major work. There are currently no solutions on offer for completing these roads.

Road Maintenance Trust Fund: When the RMTF overcame its procurement problems it soon
became apparent that the consultants were inadequate. The original team that was assessed were
all replaced, two due to the long delay between EOI and contract signature, and one after the
start of the study because he did not produce results. The first round of consultations went well
but the Initial Design and Options Report was deeply lacking in quality. Under the contract it
was deliverable by week eleven. It was finalized after ten months. Much of the report was in fact
produced by Bank and Project staff.

Towards the end of the process it became clear that the Milling Companies were not willing to
participate in any PPP arrangements unless the road rehabilitation was completed as designed.
With the facts and figures from the consultants reports it was possible for OPIC to make a case to
GoPNG to continue funding for the remaining rehabilitation work. The study provided a possible
sustainable way to keep the road maintained. To that extent it was a success. The study also
helped the diffusion of a range of information into the public domain through consultations,
thereby helping to achieve some consensus among the stakeholders talking.


                                                                                               59
Infill Planting: Infill planting was an appropriate element of the project even though it was not
directly applicable to the objective of sustainable road maintenance. It was a way to get more
FFB from each kilometer of road and, in theory, more money from the users for road
maintenance. It was especially applicable in Oro where the blocks-per-kilometer of road ratio is
the lowest. There was also a lot of demand from growers. But the infill planting program
suffered from delays. The first hurdle was getting PNG Microfinance to agree that the loans
would be made at 8% interest. PNGSDP had signed up to this in 2006 when they held a
controlling interest in the lender. The second hurdle was the issue of seedling availability where
priority was given to replanting programs, as opposed to new infill blocks. By the time the
milling companies accepted the agreement to provide seedling, the Inspection Panel had
commenced its investigations and World Bank instructed OPIC not to sign agreements.

From September 2011 until April 2012 very little planting was accomplished by OPIC. OPIC did
eventually build sufficient capacity to carry out infill planting but then seedling availability
became an issue. The milling companies, who were never much in favour of the program, and
who were skeptical after the stop-start nature of the planting, did not prioritize seedling
deliveries for SADP. However the situation in Hoskins was different of a different nature.
Blocks were approved for planting that were clearly not eligible under the environmental
guidelines. While the Hoskins management was reporting 162 infill blocks at the end of 2012,
thorough investigations showed that only 72 blocks were considered as legitimate infill blocks
with PML loans.

Lesson: OPIC needs better management if it is going to manage a planting program.

Component 2: Local Governance and Community Participation
This component was dropped during the September 2012 restructuring.

Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Support
Strengthening OPIC and Upgrading Its Service Delivery: When the Extension Specialist was
recruited in May 2011 he was given specific priorities in addition to his extensive TORs. The
priority was to assess OPIC field staff and duties, put performance measurements in place, and
remove low performers through retrenchment or retirement. While the Extension Specialist did a
lot of work with the staff, in the end there were no significant changes in work methods or
attitudes. The “restructuring and reorganization” that the Specialist designed and documented
was done with the full participation of OPIC staff. While this was desired by everyone, the actual
implementation of the plan became a difficult task. During the reorganization, very little effort
was made to engage the milling companies and the LPCs. The reorganization report was rejected
by the companies expressed dismay that they hadn’t been consulted, although the company’s
claim was not entirely true. The companies felt that they were working to shrink OPIC’s
operation and SADP was seeking to expand it. In the end there has been no real improvement in
OPIC service delivery.

   4. Assessment of SADP Outcomes

Some of the main outcomes of the project include the following:



                                                                                               60
   •   Around one-half of “poor” roads have been upgraded to at least “fair” condition. This
       will allow higher production and increased incomes for many small farmers.
   •   A plan has been made for achieving sustainable road maintenance. The plan will be put in
       place if GoPNG supports it.
   •   Around 500 families will benefit from having new oil palm blocks and regular income
       from their land.
   •   OPIC has received an injection of capital assets including vehicles, housing, furniture,
       and equipment.
   •   OPIC has built some capacity in the field of civil engineering, environmental monitoring
       and control, and dealing with land issues. The sustainability of this new capacity is
       however tenuous.
   •   Research on the social aspects of smallholder oil palm in PNG has been advanced.


   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Evaluation of the Borrowers Own Performance:
   • Implementing Agency–OPIC. OPIC’s performance can only be rated as poor. A core
       competency of an agriculture extension service is planting. When the opportunity arose to
       actually put trees in the ground and create livelihoods for families in rural districts OPIC
       was sorely lacking. They struggled with the paperwork, there was little initiative or
       motivation. Some non-project staff indicated that they would only contribute to SADP if
       they were remunerated.
   • Overseeing Department– (1) National Planning and Monitoring. DNPM has generally
       been engaged and supportive of the project. There have been a number of changes in the
       Secretary position and in senior management responsible for the project. During
       transition periods it was not always possible to get timely assistance from DNPM. Lack
       of counterpart funding was a continuing issue but whether this was due to DNPM,
       Treasury, or Finance is unknown. One thing is clear; GoPNG signs legally binding
       agreements to provide counterpart funds and then fails to fulfil their obligation. (2)
       Agriculture and Livestock (DAL). DAL’s engagement with the project has been
       minimal. One officer has been involved and supportive.
   • Treasury. Generally engaged and helpful although getting letters signed by the Minister
       has been very problematic.
   • Other members of the Project Steering Committee (PSC):
           o Department of Environment and Conservation (DEC)–DEC was engaged with the
               project to the extent of sending their officers on field trips with the E&S auditors.
               Despite the significant expense incurred by SADP to fund these officers (travels,
               stationeries), the project never received feedback on their trips, although one
               officer assisted with some procurement support.
           o Department of Works (DoW)–There was no engagement from DoW at the PSC
               level. One officer did provide some help to the RMTF consultant.
           o Provincial & Local Level Government Affairs–One officer attended one PSC
               meeting. There was no engagement from Community Affairs.



                                                                                                 61
           o Provincial Administrators–The Project received good support from both the
             Northern and West New Britain provincial administrations. The two consecutive
             Governors of WNBP were also both very supportive.

Evaluation of the Bank’s Performance: The World Bank provided a team of talented
professionals who consistently supported the project. The Team Leader in particular should be
recognized for her tireless efforts on behalf of the project and for the quality of her contribution.

OPIC understands that the Bank sets very high standards for the quality of work it expects from
the implementing agency. This is good and it helps build capacity. But if every contract, tender,
report, and submission has to be re-written many times to the Banks satisfaction and if this
causes lengthy delays then perhaps the “perfect” becomes the enemy of the “good enough”.

Evaluation of PNG Sustainable Development Program Ltd: PNGSDP was an excellent partner
for SADP. There were no problems accessing funding. Their two officers for Agriculture and
Infrastructure were wholly engaged with the project from start to finish contributing technical
expertise and ideas for better implementation. The only minor problem with PNGSDP was lack
of feedback on their expenditure. The accounts for emergency repairs and Oro incomplete roads
were not shared with OPIC.


   6. Next Steps

Proposed Arrangement for future operation of the Project: An application has been lodged with
DNPM (on national investment budget) to fund the core elements of SADP that have been left
incomplete at the end of 2013. The budget proposal encompasses the completion of the
rehabilitation of the three road networks, the purchase of three maintenance fleets one for each
location, community participation contracts for manual road maintenance, and salaries/fees for a
team of four engineers to oversee the work plus limited on-costs.




                                                                                                  62
           Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development Program (PNGSDP) was the main co-
financier for SADP. Although no financial reporting was shared with SADP Project
Management Unit, SADP estimated that it has contributed approximately US$7-8 million to
finance project activities through mainly roads and infill program support.

Background on PNGSDP
The Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development Program (PNGSDP) was established since
2001 as a private nonprofit trust company with majority ownership (63.4%) in Ok Tedi Mine
Limited (OTML). PNGSDP was set up to sustain development initiatives for populations in
Papua New Guinea and especially along Fry River in the Western Province where Ok Tedi
mining activities take place. The Program is also to provide a financial assurance fund for mine
closure.

PNGSDP was an important partner in co-financing the Smallholder Agriculture Development
Program. The Program was involved in the project from design stage up to implementation, and
provided a budget of about US$10 million to support the project. Of this amount, US$1.9 was
allocated to roads and fully spent. Out of the US$8.1 balance, US$5-6 million was spent to
support the infill program through PNG Micro Finance Limited (PML) loans to growers, and
also to other project activities.

Summary of PNGSDP Comments
PNGSDP saw a lot of potential in SADP and were very supportive of the project, which explain
which the Program accepted being the main co-financier of the project.

The roads reconstruction and maintenance program was fully justified, but the approach could
have been more flexible. SADP could have financed more roads, if the specifications for the
roads were less stringent. For example, crushed aggregate gravel was the requirement but this
was not always necessary for some roads for which straight screen river gravel could have been
used. This latter option would have allowed coverage of more kilometers of roads. 27

The rationale for the infill program was also solid. Filling the gaps along constructed and
rehabilitated roads was a cost-effective proposition for palm oil operations, both for growers and
milling companies. The infill program also fully justified future road maintenance work, helping
to ensure that project investments in roads will be durable. While the program was slow to
commence, PNDSDP ensured that the agreed interest rate with PML was maintained at 8% for
the growers.

PML is owned by PNGSDP and would have liked to see this program continue. However,
PNGSDP is now close down since October 18, 2013, after the Government of PNG advised of its
intentions to take over the Company.


27
  Bank missions advised while crushed gravel is of a far superior quality, screened gravel is a good alternative.
However, that screened gravel should meet the specification and be within an acceptable ‘grading envelope’, which
requires mechanical screening.

                                                                                                              63
                              Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   •   Project Implementation Plan

   •   Project Appraisal Document for Independent State of Papua New Guinea Smallholder
       Agriculture Development Project (SADP) dated November 19, 2007 (Report No: 38558)

   •   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   •   Project Progress Reports.

   •   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 2013


*including electronic files




                                                                                      64
MAP IBRD 35472




                 65
