 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14677

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/03/2015

               Country: Papua New Guinea
             Project ID: P079140                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Png-smallholder               Project Costs (US$M):                     68.8                25.41
                         Agriculture
                         Development
  L/C Number:            C4374                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     27.50                23.26
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):                       0.0                  0.0
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 12/18/2007
                                                                Closing Date:             12/31/2012         12/31/2013
          Sector(s):       Roads and highways (66%); Crops (21%); Agricultural extension and research (8%); Other
                           social services (3%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (67% - P); Participation and civic engagement (33% - S)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               Soniya Carvalho        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Financing Agreement (p. 5) and the Project Appraisal Document (p. 3) stated the project development objective
as:
 "increase, in a sustainable manner, the level of involvement of targeted communities in their local development
through measures aimed at increasing oil palm revenue and local participation."

This Review evaluates the project against this objective.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  1. Smallholder Productivity Enhancement (Appraisal cost: US$59.2 million, Actual cost: US$15.72 million). This
component would support: (a) smallholder oil palm development; (b) road works; and (c) agricultural extension. It is
estimated that 9,000 ha of oil palm would be established on vacant blocks of village land along existing access roads
(in-fill planting) within the area already covered by existing oil palm infrastructure. The project would finance land
preparation, purchase of seedlings, fertilizers, basic tools and other inputs provided to smallholders by the mills as
suppliers’ credit. About 550 km of existing provincial access roads serving the oil palm catchment area would be
upgraded (reconstruction). The project would finance construction and maintenance contracts and the purchase of
non-routine maintenance equipment. A Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF) would be established in each
smallholder oil palm scheme, financed by smallholders, palm oil milling companies and provincial governments. The
existing oil palm extension and research services would be upgraded to generate and disseminate productivity
improvements. The project would also finance technical assistance and training to support the management of oil
palm smallholdings during and after the project duration.

2. Local Governance and Community Participation (Appraisal cost: US$3.1 million, Actual cost: dropped). This pilot
component would support the improved provision of local services and infrastructure in the two project provinces of
Oro and WNB through participatory processes (CDD). The component would finance small community grants,
technical assistance and training to Local Level Government and communities. The grants would finance small scale
community infrastructure and services through sub-projects. The implementation steps would include: (a) capacity
building of community-based organizations (CBOs), ward development committees, Local Level Governments and
province/district administrations; (b) community mobilization, supported by local facilitators; (c) identification and
prioritization of sub-projects through transparent processes at ward or community level; (d) participatory planning and
budgeting at Local Level Governments level; (e) provision of funding, with conditions to ensure accountability and
effective use of funds by recipient communities; and (f) design and implementation of sub-projects by the communities
themselves, with support from district and Local Level Governments, local CBOs, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) and service providers.

3. Project Management and Institutional Support (Appraisal cost US$6.5 million, Actual cost: US$9.69 million). The
Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC) would take overall responsibility for project management, coordination and
performance of the project components. The implementation of component 1 would be undertaken through OPIC and
its field offices with the support of the palm oil milling companies and PNG Oil Palm Research Association.
Component 2 would be implemented by a management agency contracted by OPIC: (a) to set up Local Coordination
Teams (LCT) at provincial level; (b) to select and contract consultants and service providers to carry out all
capacity-building activities; (c) to carry out M&E activities for the component; and (d) to transfer the grants and
manage the grant accounts at the LLG levels, and to transfer funds for sub-project activities to the Sub-project
Implementation Teams’ (SITs) accounts at the LLGs’ request. Component 3 would strengthen OPIC’s capacity to
manage the project and to provide extension to growers. OPIC would also provide support to and coordinate with
existing HIV/AIDS awareness/prevention campaigns in the project areas. Environmental monitoring would be
supported in close coordination with the Department of Environment and Conservation (DEC).

Revised Components

Component 2 was dropped at the time of the first restructuring in September 2012. The ICR (p. 4) reports three main
reasons for this: first, OPIC's weak capacity has undermined program implementation and contributed to substantial
delays; second, at the time of the first project restructuring (September 2012), it was deemed that even if OPIC were
to recruit the management agency to implement Component 2, it would have already been too late to obtain a
meaningful result under this Component before the project’s revised closing date of December 31, 2013 and third,
given the delays in other critical project activities—road rehabilitation and in-fill planting—it was decided that all project
efforts would be concentrated on these activities and on improving extension service delivery.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. The total project cost at appraisal was US$68.8 million including US$5.3 million taxes and duties
(PAD, Annex 5). Actual project cost was US$25.41 million (ICR Annex 1). According to the ICR (p. 5) "the reduction in
total project cost reflected the fact that the Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF) concept would not be implemented
within the remaining project time frame. Under the original project design, the West New Britain and Oro Provincial
Governments, together with the palm oil milling companies and project area smallholders, were to contribute US$23.7
million to the RMTF."

Financing. At appraisal the project was expected to be financed through a US$27.50 million IDA Loan. According to
the ICR (Annex 1) the actual disbursed amount at project completion was US$23.26 million and US$0.3 million was
cancelled.

Borrower Contribution . The Borrower was expected to contribute US$7.4 million of counterpart funding. The ICR
(Annex 1) reports that the borrower contributed US$2.15 million of counterpart funds which is about 39% of the
appraisal estimate. According to the PAD (p. 3) the West New Britain Provincial Government, the Oro Provincial
Government, palm oil milling companies, smallholder oil palm growers and the PNG Sustainable Development
Program were expected to contribute US$7.20 million, US$3.5 million, US$5.7 million, US$7.3 million, and US$10.20
million, respectively, totaling US$33.9 million. The ICR provides no information on actual contribution from these
sources. The ICR (p. 33) also notes that: "the financial reporting system does not record information on all the other
financiers identified at appraisal, namely the milling companies, smallholder farmers, PNG Sustainable Development
and local governments in Oro and West New Britain provinces."

Dates. The project was restructured twice, the first was a Level 2 restructuring carried out in June 2012 and became
effective in September 2012. The amount disbursed was US$4.61 million. This restructuring involved: (i) modifying a
number of results indicators to reflect changes in the scope of the project, (ii) scaling back activities under component
1 due to local currency appreciation, revision in the Bank financing share due to insufficient counterpart funding and
sharp increase in local costs, and dropping component 2 as discussed above; (iii) total project cost was revised
downwards to US$40.2 million; (iv) reallocation of credit among disbursement categories; and (v) extension of closing
date of the project by one year from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013. According to the ICR (p. 5) this
extension was to allow sufficient time for completion of planned road works and implementation of the in-fill planting
program and extension activities. The second restructuring was also a Level 2 carried out on November 2013. The
amount disbursed was US$20.77 million. This restructuring mainly involved reallocation of expenditures from the ‘
Consulting Services and Training’ category, which had unspent funds to the ‘Goods’ category. This was necessary to
strengthen road maintenance capacity in each of the three project areas through the procurement of three graders.
The ICR (p. 5) reports that: "all three graders have been purchased and received at the three project sites." The
Midterm Review was conducted in September 2010.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At project completion, objectives remain highly relevant to Papua New Guinea's current needs of economic and social
development. The objectives are consistent with the World Bank's current (2013-2016) Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS). The CPS (p. 16) calls among other things for supporting improved productivity and profitability of small holders
growing cash crops, productivity gains for rural households growing food crops, improved sustainability and resilience
to price and weather volatility, and improved market chain infrastructure.

At project appraisal, objectives supported GoPNG’s Medium-Term Development Strategy 2005 – 2010 (MTDS) and
were also consistent with IDA’s overall goals as stated in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN-Report No. 31790-PG, March
18, 2005).

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
Design included a statement of objectives that clearly describes the intended outcome, the beneficiaries and the
means through which the project would reach its objective. The PAD (Annex 3) includes a Results Framework that
shows a logical causal chain between the activities to be supported, the outputs expected and the intended outcomes.
The design of component 1 was simple and straightforward; however, component 2 seemed more complex. The
objectives would be directly supported by small holder productivity enhancement activities which were expected to
expand the cultivated areas, improve productivity and increase farmers' income. The second component would
contribute to the achievement of the objectives through financing small community grants, technical assistance and
training to Local Level Government and communities to increase participation in local development. One notable
design shortcoming is over estimating the capacity of the Oil Palm Industry Corporation which could have benefitted
from more attention to capacity building measures. Also, component 2 was designed as a pilot with no clear plan to
scale up which casts doubt on the relevance of design.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The degree of achievement of the objectives stated in the Financing Agreement--increase, in a sustainable manner,
the level of involvement of targeted communities in their local development through increasing oil palm revenue and
local participation -- is rated modest.

Outputs
By project completion the following outputs /intermediate outcomes were achieved :
  Small holder oil palm yields reached 23.4 tons/ha compared a baseline of 15.2 tons/ha. This represents an
    increase in the yield by 54% compared to an appraisal target of 15 to 19%.
  231 km of roads serving oil palm catchments were upgraded compared to an original target of 550 km and a
    revised target of 190 km.
  Three social and environmental audits were completed compared to a target of two.
  1500 growers received training on sustainable production practices. The ICR (p. viii) notes that this indicator was
    only introduced at the time of restructuring in order to incorporate a core sector indicator.
  1,006 ha were planted with oil palm trees compared to an appraisal target of 9,000 ha and a revised target of
    2,500 ha. This activity suffered from poor communication between OPIC and the milling companies.
  Extension service at OPIC was upgraded through recruiting an international extension expert and 28 new
    extension staff. The project also provided training and improved the communication and mobility of extension
    agents through financing the purchase of new vehicles and motorcycles and promoting the use of mobile phones.
  Several studies were completed under the project including the environmental and social audits; the effluent
    baseline study and follow-up audit; a smallholder engagement strategy and the stream arthropod indicator study
    undertaken by PNG Oil Palm Research Association; and the Road Maintenance Trust Fund design study. It is not
    clear how the results/findings of these studies were utilized by the project. In a further communication, the project
    team explained that "the effluent baseline study was used to prepare effluent management plans for mills in the 3
    project areas; and these plans were implemented to ensure compliance with PNG effluent discharge
    requirement. The Road Maintenance Trust Fund study helped design and study and conduct extensive
    consultations in preparation of setting up the TF, should the Government of PNG, the milling companies and the
    farmers provide the require resources for setting up the fund. The stream arthropod indicator would help monitor
    water quality downstream of the mills."

Outcome
  The project achieved limited success on the agricultural side, and fell short of meeting the majority of its appraisal
    targets. Project areas saw an increase in smallholder income from palm oil production from 75.1 million Kina in
    July 2006 to 204 million Kina in September 2012, compared to the end target of 96 million Kina. Such increase in
    smallholder income was "primarily due to the increase in palm oil prices (ICR, p. 19)." Project efforts benefitted
    small holders through provision of extension advice including better management practices, facilitating fertilizer
    distribution and ensuring regular fruit bunch collection. The project also achieved some progress with regards to
    rehabilitation of roads and in-fill planting, however, it was "too late and were too little with respect to the original
    targets (ICR, p. 18)." There is no evidence provided in the ICR on the impact of road rehabilitation on both
    decreasing transport cost and loss related to delays in fruit transport.
  There is no evidence that the project achieved its stated objective of increasing the involvement of targeted
    communities in local development. The cancellation of activities under component 2 jeopardized the design of the
    project and limited its ability to achieve the stated objective. Overall, implementation suffered from weak capacity
    at OPIC and lack of management oversight, procurement delays, rising costs due to currency appreciation, and
    an uneasy relation between OPIC and the milling companies. According to the ICR (p. 10) "the milling companies
    were very aggrieved due to the Inspection Panel process and the Effluent Audits and, as a result, were less than
    supportive of SADP (the project's) activities." Finally, the ICR (p. 11) highlights that the Inspection Panel process
    negatively impacted the relation between the World Bank, GoPNG, OPIC and the milling companies and this in
    turn further undermined implementation.

5. Efficiency:

Financial and Economic efficiency

Ex ante
The PAD (Annex 9) includes a detailed financial and economic analysis of the small holder oil palm for each of the
project areas (Hoskins, Bialla and Oro) based on a two hectare oil palm in-fill planting model. The analysis estimates
the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for smallholders in Hoskins, Bialla, and Oro to be 27%, 24% and 22% respectively.
The differences in FRR among the three schemes reflect the differences in the oil palm yield and oil palm price. The
analysis estimates returns over a 23 year period. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for Hoskins,
Bialla and Oro are estimated to be 18.3%, 13.2%, and 17.2%, respectively. The overall project ERR is 16.7%. The Net
Present Values (NPV) for Hoskins, Bialla and Oro are US$5.6 million, US$0.6 million, and US$4.7 million,
respectively, and US$11.0 million overall.

Ex post
The ICR (Annex 3) includes an ex post analysis that estimates the FRR for the regions covered by the project to be
27.9% in Hoskins, 23% in Bialla and 22.6% in Oro with an overall average of 24.6%. The project’s Economic Rate of
Return was 18.4% and the Benefit: Cost ratio was 1.35. The Net Present Value of project investments worked out to
US$12.7 million. Sensitivity analyses show that these returns remain robust with drought induced fall in yields and
market-induced fall in prices. The ex post analysis and the reported FRR and ERR estimates are consistent with the
ex ante analysis in the PAD. The analysis should have included a treatment area and a control group (to enable a
difference-in-difference evaluation). This would have provided a more accurate attribution of outcomes to project
activities.

Institutional and Administrative efficiency
The project suffered from implementation delays and the closing date was extended by 12 months. There was also a
14 month delay between Board approval and Credit effectiveness which according to the ICR (p. 8) was "largely due
to the difficult relationship between GoPNG and the Bank following the cancellation of the Forestry Conservation
Project." After project effectiveness, implementation suffered from delays on several fronts, including delays in
recruiting consultants for key project management positions, social and environmental audit consultants, procurement
advisors, extension specialist and road engineers. There were also delays in purchasing key assets to support project
management operations. Implementation also suffered from delays stemming from poor communication between
project sites and headquarters. In addition, delays in the provision of counterpart funding exacerbated the situation
and eventually contributed to a reduction in the scope of the project. Procurement process was also slow due to
inefficiency in preparing bidding documents, poor quality of documents submitted to the Bank, misaligned
procurement activity relative to implementation schedule, internal staff conflicts within the implementing agency and
frequent changes in the procurement specialist. Financial management was also weak.
Finally, the actual cost of component 3 (Project Management and Institutional Support) was US$9.62 million
compared to an appraisal estimate of US$6.2 million (i.e. 155% of appraisal target). In a further communication, the
project team explained that "this increase must be assessed against the background of substantial appreciation of the
local currency and increase in domestic costs."

On balance Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                   Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

       Appraisal                       Yes                                     16.7%                                    100%

       ICR estimate                    Yes                                     18.4%                                    95.5%
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was rated high and relevance of design was rated substantial. Efficacy was rated modest
as the project did not achieve its stated objective of increasing the involvement of targeted communities in local
development and fell short of meeting majority of its appraisal targets. Efficiency was rated modest due to major
shortcomings on the project's institutional and administrative side including delays related to hiring staff, procurement
and financial management weaknesses.
  a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The sustainability of the project development objective is dependent on the regular pick up and transport of fresh
fruit bunches from the farms to the mills. This in turn requires regular maintenance of the roads through the Road
Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF). However, it is not clear whether the RMTF would be properly institutionalized and
operational. There is also concern regarding the sustainability of OPIC's extension services to oil palm growers. OPIC
does not receive funds from GoPNG for its recurrent budget and relies on the levies paid by growers and the milling
companies. In the absence of Bank funding after project completion, it is likely that OPIC will face a serious financial
threat by 2015 (ICR, p. 25). In a further communication, the project team highlighted that "OPIC has continued its
activities since the project closed, with resources from both levies and the Government. While the RMTF is not yet
functional, the project facilitated the purchase of 3 graders that are being used in the 3 project areas for road
maintenance. The graders are managed by milling companies."

      a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

      The Bank identified an operation that was consistent with Government priorities and the Country Partner Ship
       strategy.
      Design included a relevant objective that is appropriate to the current needs of Papua New Guinea’s social
       and economic development.
      Design featured activities that would lead to increasing the area of oil palm, improve productivity and facilitate
       transporting of the produce to the mills. However, it is less clear how design would improve the involvement of
       communities in local development through pilot activities with no clear plan on scaling up such activities.
      Design incorporated a number of useful lessons from the Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project and
       the Australian Agency for International Development, most notable of which was the need of regular
       maintenance to provincial roads to enable regular fresh fruit bunch collection from small holders.
      Although several risks were correctly identified at appraisal, the limited capacity of OPIC to implement project
       activities was not adequately assessed. This contributed to various problems that undermined the project
       implementation. Also, the withdrawal of support for the project by private milling companies was overlooked.
       In a further communication, the project team explained that "OPIC implementation capacities were
       adequately assessed and proper mitigation measures identified. Implementation difficulties stem from the
       lack of Government oversight, which was much more serious than anticipated."
     Design should have included effective safeguard measures to manage potential environmental impacts
      associated with additional Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME).
     M&E design could have benefited from measuring the project's impact on incomes in project areas to better
      reflect the project impact.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    According to the ICR (p. 26) supervision had enough budget and staff resources. The project received
intensive supervision and close monitoring. The project team prepared Aide-Memoires on a timely basis and
alerted the Government and OPIC to problems with the project. The team also recommended solutions in
accordance with Bank procedures. The Implementation status Reports (ISRs) were realistic and ratings reflected
the performance of the project in terms of achievement of objective and progress of implementation. The task
team also monitored fiduciary and safeguard compliance and managed the Inspection Panel review process and
recommended an action plan. The Bank also provided support and training on fiduciary and safeguards aspects to
OPIC staff to ensure compliance. However, the project suffered from weaknesses in both procurement and
financial management. More attention should have been given to mitigation measures to counter the
environmental impacts associated with potential increase in Palm Oil Mill Effluent. In a further communication, the
project team pointed out that project supervision gave substantial amount of attention to implementation, including
the management of the Inspection Panel process, and to issues related to Palm Oil Mill Effluent Management,
however, the team fully acknowledged that more attention should have been given to the Palm Oil Mill Effluent
issues during project design, which was more than compensated during implementation.


     Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government of Papua New Guinea was not committed to the project (ICR, p. 26). This was demonstrated
by the long delay between Board approval and Credit effectiveness (about 14 months). The ICR (p. 26) attributes
this delay to the difficult relation between the Government and the Bank on the heels of cancelling the Forestry
Conservation Project. Further, OPIC's Board was not operational during the first few years of project
implementation because the Government neither appointed a General Secretary nor the Board members. In
addition, the Project Steering Committee, which was supposed to provide guidance to resolve project problems,
never met up to the time of the Midterm Review in 2010. The ICR (p. 27) highlights that the communication
between the Government and OPIC was inadequate. Finally, the provision of counterpart funding was usually late
and amounts were insufficient. This contributed to implementation delays since inception and led to scaling back
the scope of the project.

     Government Performance Rating                              Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented under the Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC). Project management was weak
throughout implementation (ICR, p. 27). OPIC suffered from weak staff capacity, delays in recruitment of key staff
including OIPC's Secretary General and a procurement advisor for the project. There was poor coordination of
field activities in general, except for road activities which were under Road Engineers Unit. OPIC also suffered
from lack of management oversight at all levels. This contributed to lack of confidence by the milling companies in
OPIC's delivery capacity on project activities--especially with the setbacks in the in-fill activities. Procurement was
unsatisfactory and continued to be slow even after a procurement advisor was hired due to delays by the Central
Supply and Tender Board. Financial management was also weak and suffered from delays in audit reports. The
ICR (p. 28) highlights that entity audits of the 2011, 2012 and 2013 financial statements are yet to be completed.
Finally, OPIC failed to provide regular monthly reports to the World Bank.

     Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

     Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The PAD (Annex 3) includes a detailed Results Framework that lists two outcome indicators and seven Results
indicators. The indicators seem adequate and would capture the project's progress and reflect the achievement of the
project development objective. Design would have benefitted from including an indicator to measure the project's
impact on incomes. Also, the baseline survey design should have included a treatment area and a control group (to
enable a difference-in-difference evaluation). This would have provided a more accurate attribution of outcomes to
project activities (ICR, p. 12).

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation was the responsibility of OPIC. According to the ICR (p. 13) OPIC had its own monitoring system. It
is unclear why OPIC did not follow the project's M&E arrangements. In a further communication the project team
explained that "OPIC’s monitoring system was simple, Excel-based, and designed solely to monitor key project
performance indicators. OPIC was reluctant to set up a new MIS. Instead, it installed a customized software package
called OMP that enables data on smallholders to be shared between the milling companies and OPIC. This software
was already in use by the milling companies. However, this software was only installed in Oro province. The OMP
system catalogs agronomic and economic data for smallholders such as fertilizer usage and fruit production. OPIC is
able to continue to use these data in Oro for identifying low production blocks and “skip” harvesting for targeted
extension work." While the quality of data collected by OPIC was good, the two baselines surveys conducted were of
unsatisfactory quality. During restructuring indicators pertaining to component 2 were dropped and other indicators
were scaled back because initial targets were ambitious. OPIC was expected to conduct two impact evaluations, one
at the mid-term and the other by the end of the project, however, it is not clear if either was carried out.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E data collected by OPIC included a detailed asset management database containing the inventory,
condition and indicative repair cost of the entire network of smallholder access roads in the 3 project areas comprising
approximately 2,000 km and data on the roads rehabilitated under the project and the in-fill areas planted. According
to the ICR (p. 13) the afore mentioned data was used for planning and decision making purposes, however, there is
limited evidence on how the findings impacted implementation.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
According to the PAD (p. 16) the project triggered the following safeguard policies: OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment); OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats); OP 4.09 (Pest Management); OP/BP 4.36 (Forests); OD 4.20, being
revised as OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples); OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement). The Environmental screening
category was "partial assessment" and safeguard screening was "limited impact" (PAD, p. vi). In a further
communication, the project team explained that the project was Category B.

Environmental Safeguards
  Stream health was monitored to help track changes in water quality over time. The monitoring methodology used
    water quality metrics computed from survey data on aquatic invertebrate assemblages on selected sites. The ICR
    does not discuss the results of stream monitoring. In a further communication, the project team explained that d
    uring the project period sample points were identified and mapped in West New Britain and Oro which helped
    establish a baseline and water quality continues to be measured against these baselines.
  Land use and forest cover were also monitored under the project through a Bank partnership with the European
    Space Agency. Monitoring results were used to confirm that there was no destruction of primary forests due to oil
    palm cultivation in Oro since 2005. The maps produced were also used in the final environmental and social audit
    to identify and inspect high risk blocks in the project area.
  The ICR (p. 14) reports that one road construction site was closed due to a lack of gravel pit rehabilitation.
  There were issues with inadequate documentation for in-fill sites. By end of project a legally reviewed standard
    Clan Land Users Agreement and a standard Plantation Approval Form had been implemented.
  The Plantation Approval Form required evidence that applicants have attended a grower workshop as one of the
    criteria for grower readiness There were instances of new growers had not been trained, as required Plantation
     Approval Form, prior to the planting of seedlings on their blocks. The ICR (p. 15) notes that compliance improved
     in the second half of 2013.
    The ICR (p. 15) reports that there were poor cultivation practices where farmers needed to improve the upkeep of
     their block, with the early establishment of cover crop and installation of drains where required. However, it is not
     clear how extensive the problem was.
    There was also one incident of inadequate buffer establishment. The ICR (p. 15) reports that such incident was
     addressed and the buffer was returned to natural vegetation.
    The work on Palm Oil Mill Effluent baseline started late due to delays in recruiting the Social and Environmental
     Audit consultants. The 2013 effluent audit concluded that “overall, the palm oil mill effluent systems across all
     mills were operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory compliance is achieved at each mill most of the time.”
     In addition, relevant mills are implementing a number of actions and mitigation measures that were
     recommended by the audits and a study. By project completion, most actions were completed as planned while
     some would be completed in 2014.
    According to the ICR (p. 13) environmental safeguard compliance was moderately satisfactory.

Social Safeguards.
 Project activities did not cause any physical or economic displacement and Social safeguards in the Standard
Operating Procedures (SOPs) were generally complied with during implementation (ICR, p. 13). All road upgrading
projects had undergone consultations with the affected communities and Community Consent Agreements were
secured prior to their implementation. There were only a few crop damage claims due to road construction in Oro and
these were settled in accordance with the process provided in the project's Resettlement Policy Framework. Garden
food production was not disrupted in any of in-fill blocks. According to the ICR (p. 13) compliance with social
safeguards requirements was moderately satisfactory.

Project Inspection
On December 17, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection submitted by the Center for
Environmental Law and Community Rights (CELCOR), acting as a representative of the Ahora/Kakandetta Pressure
Group, other claimants from the Oro Province and affected smallholders within the three project areas. The Claimants
Request contained claims that according to the Panel may constitute violations by the Bank of various provisions of its
policies and procedures. In response to the Request, management took a number of actions as detailed in the ICR (p.
12). The Inspection Panel process was completed in December 2011 and Management issued its first progress report
to the Bank’s Board of Directors in January 2014.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management. The Bank’s entity audit requirements were not complied with by OPIC. It also did not adhere
to the timetables agreed upon with IDA in the audit action plan as part of the 2012 project restructuring. At the time
the project closed on December 31, 2013, OPIC had received the audit certificates for 2009 and 2010, while the 2011
and 2012 OPIC audits remain outstanding (ICR, p. 15). The project management did not have a dedicated Financial
Controller as envisaged at appraisal.
Procurement. According to the ICR (p. 27) procurement was unsatisfactory and continued to be slow even after a
procurement advisor was hired due to delays by the Central Supply and Tender Board. There were no incidence of
misprocurement reported.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
none.

 d. Other:
By the end of the project, cultivation of peanuts was introduced as an alternative income generation product and for
enhancing soil fertility.


12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                Unsatisfactory         Efficacy was rated modest as the
                               Unsatisfactory                                   project did not achieve its stated
                                                                                objective of increasing the involvement
                                                                                of targeted communities in local
                                                                                development and fell short of meeting
                                                                                majority of its appraisal targets.
                                                                                Efficiency was also modest due to
                                                                                major shortcomings on the project's
                                                                                institutional and administrative side.
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately           Quality at Entry was weak where the
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       implementation capacity of OPIC was
                                                                                 overestimated and safeguard concerns
                                                                                 with regards to Palm Oil Effluent
                                                                                 Management were overlooked. In
                                                                                 addition, procurement and financial
                                                                                 management were both weak.
       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR includes eleven lessons, seven were general and four were project specific. The following four lessons
are emphasized with some rearrangement:

    Project relevance alone does not guarantee implementation success in an environment where commitment
     and ownership are lacking on the part of the government and stakeholders . The project experience
     demonstrated that good relationships between the government, implementing agencies, and the Bank are
     critical factors for the success of a project. Strong government oversight to ensure that implementation issues
     are tackled in real time in order to keep a project on track is even more important. Critical decisions such as
     nominating members of OPIC’s Board could have been made a condition of effectiveness so that the Board
     would have been operational from the beginning of project implementation.
    Adequate consultation with all stakeholders is a very important pre -requisite during project preparation and
     implementation. Equally important is the proper documentation of the consultation process and feedback, not
     only for administrative reasons, but also to record consent and smooth the path of implementation, especially
     in environments where land rights are highly contested.
    An effective communication and outreach strategy is important to generate awareness and participation at
     the community level . This would help farmers understand the benefits of a project and not be misguided by
     external influences.
    Adequate staff capacity within the implementing agency is important for successful implementation . It is
     important to carefully evaluate the capacity and staffing needs of the implementing agency during project
     preparation, so that adequate capacity is in place for implementation. Implementation readiness is critical for
     the success of projects, and stronger measures should be built in design to address lack of counterpart
     performance. Issues of salary differentials between project and non-project staff within an organization are
     potential source of conflicts that may cripple the organization if they are not effectively handled, and in the case
     of the project OPIC fell a victim of that.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?     To verify ratings by field based evidence.



15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides thorough yet concise account of project activities. It also reports candidly on various project
shortcomings. It includes eleven lessons that reflect the project experience and four them could be generalized to
other projects. The ICR also provides a relevant discussion on the achievement of project outcomes although
assessment of outcomes was limited by the weaknesses in the implementation of the project’s M&E framework. The
ICR does not report on contributions from Local communities, Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development Program,
Local sources of Borrowing country and footnotes for Annex 1 b are confusing. Finally, at 31 main text pages, the ICR
is relatively long.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
