                                                                  94674
          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                       FIRST PROGRESS REPORT

      ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT’S ACTION PLAN

                            IN RESPONSE TO

    THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT (64458-PG) ON THE



                          PAPUA NEW GUINEA

        SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                         (IDA CREDIT 4374-PNG)




                             January 16, 2014




                                      
 
                   Abbreviations and Acronyms


CELCOR   Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights
CY       Calendar Year
EA       Environmental Assessment
IDA      International Development Association
MAP      Management Action Plan
OPIC     Oil Palm Industry Corporation
PGK      Papua New Guinea Kina
PNG      Papua New Guinea
RMTF     Road Maintenance Trust Fund
SADP     Smallholder Agriculture Development Project




           Currency Equivalents (as of October 31, 2013)
                       1 PGK = 0.39 USD
                       1 USD = 2.59 PGK




                                 i
                                                       Papua New Guinea


                                  Smallholder Agriculture Development Project

                                                              (P079140)

                                                    Progress Report No.: 1

                                   Implementation of Management Action Plan


                                                            CONTENTS


I.    INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................... 1 
II.  PROGRESS ON MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION ........................ 4 
III.  NEXT STEPS ........................................................................................................................ 11 




                                                                     ii
                                           First Progress Report

                       Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP)

                                            Executive Summary

1.      On December 17, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection (IPN
Request RQ09/10) for the Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP). The Request
for Inspection was submitted by the Center for Environmental Law and Community Rights
(CELCOR), acting as a representative of affected individuals from Oro Province.

2.     The Board of Executive Directors on March 25, 2010 approved the Inspection Panel’s
recommendation to carry out an investigation of the alleged instances of harm from
noncompliance. On September 19, 2011, the Panel issued its Investigation Report outlining the
findings of the investigation to the Board. On October 31, 2011 Bank Management submitted its
Response along with a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP), in response to the Panel’s
findings. The MAP committed to actions in three key areas (a) information disclosure,
consultation and broad community support; (b) environment; and (c) institutional sustainability.
On December 13, 2011, the Executive Directors considered the two above reports and approved
the MAP proposed by Management. Management agreed to report back to the Board on the
implementation of the actions presented in the MAP and Annex 1 of the Management Response
during implementation.

3.      This is the first progress report on the implementation of the MAP covering the period of
January 2012 to September 2013. The Project closed on December 31, 2013, and a final report
will present additional progress in MAP implementation since September 2013. Progress has
been made on all the activities identified in the MAP. Key advances are as follows:

Information Disclosure, Consultation and Broad Community Support
    -   Development and implementation of a consultation framework. The Oil Palm Industry
        Corporation (OPIC) prepared (with Bank support) and has been implementing a
        Consultation Framework for all major Project activities. Between May 2011 and May
        2013, close to 5,000 participants attended the consultations on road rehabilitation and
        maintenance alone, a fact that has been confirmed by Bank missions. Free, prior and
        informed consultations that were culturally appropriate were undertaken for infill
        planting and road works.1
    -        Documentation of consultations. OPIC has endeavored to systematically document and
             file records of consultations. These records have been made available to the Bank. Both
             the independent environmental and social audits and recent implementation support
             missions have identified the need for further improvements in the documentation of these
             consultations.
                                                       
1
 Per the recently completed environmental and social audits undertaken by independent consultants recruited by
OPIC under the Project.


                                                        iii
Environment
   -   Palm Oil Mill Effluent Action Plan. OPIC recruited consultants to prepare an effluent
       baseline study for the Project area palm oil mills, which was finalized in April 2013 and
       publicly disclosed by OPIC. Field work for the follow-up effluent audit was completed
       and a final report submitted to the Bank in October 2013. This report will also be
       disclosed. The audit concluded that “overall, the palm oil mill effluent systems across all
       mills were operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory compliance is achieved at each
       mill most of the time.” A number of actions and mitigations measures were agreed with
       and are being implemented by the relevant milling companies as a result of the study and
       audit. Most actions are being completed as planned, and OPIC is expected to monitor and
       update on their implementation. This will be documented in the final progress report.
       The Department of Environment and Conservation is updating the PNG Code of Practice
       for Palm Oil Processing. The Bank commented on the Terms of Reference and draft
       reports and participated in stakeholder consultations held in May 2012.


Institutional Sustainability
4.      Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF) Consultations. OPIC recruited consultants to
undertake the RMTF study, who began work in early 2012 and held consultations across the
three Project areas, which are documented in the study’s Inception Report. A draft report on the
RMTF design was prepared and findings from the first phase of work on the design were shared
with stakeholders prior to the second round of consultations, which was completed in June 2013.
A final design report was shared with the Bank in October 2013. The final progress report will
update on follow-up actions undertaken following the RMTF study.

5.      Management expects to be able to provide the final progress report to the Board by the
end of FY2014 upon completion of all outstanding Action Plan items. Management will continue
to closely oversee the implementation of the MAP. The Project closed on December 31, 2013.




                                               iv
                    Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP)

            Progress Report on the Implementation of Management Action Plan


                                     I.    INTRODUCTION

1.      The Project. In 2007, the World Bank approved an IDA Specific Investment Credit of
US$27.5 million equivalent for the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) Smallholder
Agriculture Development Project (SADP), which aims to improve community participation in
local development while increasing revenue flow from the already established local palm oil
production industry.

2.     The original Project had three components: (a) smallholder productivity enhancement
including: infill planting of new smallholder village oil palm along existing access roads;
upgrading of provincial access roads and establishment of sustainable financing for road
maintenance; and strengthening of oil palm extension services; (b) local governance and
community participation, to support the improved provision of local services and infrastructure
through participatory processes; and (c) project management and institutional support for the Oil
Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC), the implementing agency, and for the smallholder sector,
through training, research and studies.

3.       The Project became effective in January 2009. Due to a long delay in establishing Project
management capacity, implementation did not begin until 2010. In June 2012, the Project was
restructured. Under the restructuring, the closing date for the Project was extended by one year to
December 31, 2013 and the scope of the Project was scaled back. The reduction in the scope was
needed due to the implementation delays, the strong appreciation of the PNG Kina since Project
approval, the increase in local construction costs, and the Government’s request for a revision in
IDA’s financing shares for different disbursement categories and for IDA to finance 100 percent
of all eligible expenditures inclusive of taxes.

4.      Under the original Project design, 550 km of existing provincial access roads serving the
oil palm catchment area were to be upgraded. The revised scope includes only 190 km of road
rehabilitation (including spot repairs and drainage improvements) and 13 km of road
reconstruction (for incomplete roads in Oro Province). The original 550 km of road
reconstruction included 105 km of “incomplete roads” in Oro Province, which were to be
financed by PNG Sustainable Development Program Ltd. Due to the increase in costs, however,
only about 14.4 km (slightly exceeding the revised target of 13 km) of incomplete roads have
been completed to date.

5.      In the original Project some 9,000 ha of oil palm were to be established on vacant blocks
of village land along existing access roads (infill planting) within the area already covered by
existing oil palm infrastructure. As part of the restructuring, the target for infill planting of
smallholder oil palm was revised down to 2,500 hectares.

6.     The pilot component on Local Governance and Community Participation (Component 2)
was dropped from the Project. Due to OPIC’s capacity limitations and difficulties in recruiting


                                                 1
management consultants to implement the component, it was agreed with Government to drop it
and instead focus efforts on the road works, infill planting and improving extension service
delivery.

7.      The Road Maintenance Trust Fund (RMTF) study, which focuses on developing a
sustainable financing mechanism for road maintenance, has been completed. However, any new
road maintenance arrangements emerging from the study would need to be implemented after the
Project period.

8.      Current Status of Project. Implementation has gained some momentum during the past
18 months. As of September 2013, 189 km of road upgrading (spot improvements and drainage)
have been completed. This represents 100 percent of the restructured target for road upgrading.
Work has also progressed on the incomplete roads in Oro, with 10.3 km of the 14.4 km
completed as of end September. A program of roadside maintenance by community groups is
being implemented with 50 contracts (covering 120 km) awarded in the three Project areas.
Progress has also been made on infill planting. Six hundred (600) hectares of new infill planting
of oil palm had been achieved by May 2013. It was expected that 988 hectares would be
completed by Project closing, and this will be assessed in the final progress report. The reduction
in the scope of planting is due to the unavailability of seedling supply from the milling
companies and OPIC’s weak capacity and inability to adhere to its implementation schedule. The
first two environmental and social audits (studies that were proposed under the component on
Project management and institutional support for OPIC) have been completed,2 and the effluent
baseline and follow-up audit (part of the Effluent Action Plan developed to supplement the
Environmental Assessment for the Project) have also been completed. The update of the
Environmental Code of Practice for the Oil Palm Processing Industry (also part of the Effluent
Action Plan) has progressed. Progress has also been made on the SADP water quality monitoring
program and on a smallholder engagement strategy. There has also been progress on developing
a strategy for strengthening OPIC’s extension services, although this strategy has not been
implemented.



Summary of the Panel Process, Panel Findings and Management Response

9.       On December 17, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection (IPN
Request RQ09/10) for the Smallholder Agriculture Development Project (SADP). Management
submitted its Management Response on February 7, 2010. The Panel’s eligibility report, issued
on March 10, 2010, recommended investigation. The Board of Executive Directors on March 25,
2010 approved the Inspection Panel’s recommendation to carry out an investigation of the
alleged instances of harm from noncompliance. On September 19, 2011, the Panel issued its
Investigation Report outlining the findings of the investigation to the Board. On October 31,
2011 Bank Management submitted its Response along with a detailed Management Action Plan
(MAP), in response to the Panel’s findings. The MAP committed to actions in three key areas:
(a) information disclosure, consultation and broad community support; (b) environment; and (c)
institutional sustainability. On December 13, 2011, the Executive Directors considered the two

                                                       
2
    These studies were carried out by independent consultants recruited by OPIC.


                                                           2
above reports and approved the MAP proposed by Management. Management committed to
report back to the Board on the implementation of the actions presented in the MAP and Annex 1
of the Management Response during implementation.

10.     The Request. The Requesters alleged that the Project would not reduce poverty and that
significant investments made in the oil palm industry had done little to provide material
improvement in smallholders’ lives. The Requesters were concerned about inadequate
information disclosure and consultation prior to Project approval and claimed that the Bank had
failed to ascertain broad community support for the Project. The Requesters were further
concerned that the Project would cause environmental damage and that the Project’s
Environmental Assessment (EA) did not use reliable information, lacked an assessment of
effluent treatment and did not provide mitigation measures for Project impacts on high
conservation value forests. Finally, the Requesters also expressed concerns about the
sustainability of the Project, particularly with regard to the RMTF and the activities of OPIC
extension officers.

Panel’s Investigation Report

11.     Panel Report. As major Project activities had not yet been started on the ground at the
time of the Inspection, the Panel primarily focused on the design, planning and appraisal phases
of the Project. The Panel found areas of compliance and areas of non-compliance, as outlined in
the paragraphs below.

12.    Information Disclosure, Consultation, and Broad Community Support. In the Panel’s
view the analysis in the Social and Beneficiaries Assessments of the legal and institutional
framework and the gathering of baseline information on indigenous communities, fell short of
requirements, which may have affected the consultation process. The Panel found that relevant
information was not provided prior to consultations in a culturally appropriate manner, form, and
language and that Project documents did not contain information documenting how broad
community support was reached.

13.     Poverty and Livelihood Impacts. The Panel found the Project in compliance with the
Bank’s Policy on Poverty Reduction (OP 1.00), but not in compliance with the Indigenous
Peoples Policy (OP 4.10), as far as ensuring that Indigenous Peoples receive social and economic
benefits that are culturally appropriate and gender and intergenerationally inclusive. In particular,
the Panel found that the Project did not promote savings mechanisms or measures for
smallholder income diversification. In the Panel’s view the Project design did not respond to the
significant differences among Project areas. Further, the milling companies’ institutional and
financial viability was not reviewed.

14.     Environmental Impacts. The Panel found that the Project was mainly in compliance with
the Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). The Panel found that the inclusion of
environmental management and mitigation tools and the reliability of sources used in the
Environmental Assessment complied with OP 4.01. The Panel agreed with Management that the
agreed Palm Oil Mill Effluent Management Action Plan from the effluent study addresses the
potential adverse impact from mill effluents. The Panel found that the Project complied with
OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats and with the objective of OP/BP 4.36 on Forests.


                                                 3
15.     Institutional Sustainability. The Panel concluded that establishing a system for the
regular maintenance of the road network was critical for smallholders and the industry. The
Panel found that Management left the design of the road maintenance system to the
implementation phase, and did not fully assess smallholder ability to pay their proposed
contribution. The Project included a capacity development component for OPIC, in compliance
with policy requirements. The Panel found compliance with OP 13.05 on Supervision.

Management Response and Management Action Plan

16.     Management appreciated the Panel’s finding of broad concurrence with Bank policies
and procedures applicable to the Project and further noted the Panel’s conclusion that the Project
is an effective response to poverty reduction, and that the Project as designed includes provisions
to avoid conversion or degradation of critical forest areas and habitats. Management
acknowledged the Panel’s observations on specific instances of non-compliance during Project
design which it addressed through the MAP.

17.     Management also noted that many aspects of the harm alleged by the Requesters did
not arise from the SADP. Management was concerned that the Project had become a vehicle for
raising broader issues concerning the oil palm sector in PNG and internationally. As stated in the
Panel Report “[..] much of the harm claimed by the Requesters relates to the consequences of
smallholder oil palm production during the past decades, with or without World Bank
involvement and Requesters’ fear that such harm may continue to emanate from the SADP.”
Management concurred with the Panel that the Project had also become a vehicle for raising, and
seeking mitigation of, a number of longstanding adverse impacts that existed prior to the Project
and that were unrelated to the SADP.

18.     Management took seriously the concerns raised in the Request for Inspection including
issues that Management had already identified and addressed. Through ongoing implementation
support for the SADP, Management continues to provide support to OPIC to ensure that the
concerns related to the consultation process, specifically proper documentation, are addressed.
SADP’s grievance redress mechanisms have been strengthened. Management has also allocated
significant resources to provide timely implementation support and to assist OPIC with
enhancing its capacity for safeguards compliance.

19.    This is the first progress report on the MAP, covering January 2012 to September 2013.

      II.   PROGRESS ON MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION

20.     Management Action Plan Description. The MAP committed to: (a) assist OPIC in
developing a Consultation Framework and ensuring that it is implemented across the three
Project areas; (b) continue to support OPIC in improving the documentation of consultations
during implementation; (c) continue to closely support and monitor the implementation of the
Effluent Action Plan; and (d) verify that adequate consultations are conducted and documented
as part of the RMTF study and that the proposed amount of the levy, if any, would not constitute
an unsustainable financial burden to the smallholders.




                                                 4
21.    Progress Made In Current Reporting Period. This section describes the specific actions
undertaken and the status of implementation (Table 1). During this reporting period progress was
made on all items in the MAP.

Information Disclosure, Consultation and Broad Community Support
22.     Development and Implementation of a Consultation Framework. OPIC, with support
from the Bank, prepared a Consultation Framework and has been implementing the framework
for all major Project activities. Recently completed independent environmental and social audits3
report that for both infill planting and road works free, prior and informed consultations were
undertaken and that consultations were culturally appropriate. Bank missions have also reviewed
minutes of consultations to verify that the Consultation Framework is being implemented.

23.     By way of example, agreement is required from every farmer that will be potentially
affected by the Project’s road works. Project consultations have been used to discuss and obtain
agreement from farmers on the proposed road infrastructure. Grievance procedures and consent
forms are explained during these consultations. In the absence of grievances, consent forms are
signed prior to launching the works. More recently in May 2013, intensive consultations were
held to understand the conditions under which a Road Maintenance Trust Fund could be set up
and operationalized in a sustainable manner. Issues related to transparency in the use of levies for
road maintenance, and to the perceived roles and responsibilities of the government, milling
companies, and farmer communities, in road maintenance have been freely and openly discussed
during these consultations. The consultation framework has also been effectively used to provide
extra space to discuss the impact of poor road conditions on women, as well as solutions best
suited to respond to the specific needs of women and other disadvantaged groups.

24.     Documentation of Consultations. OPIC has been making an effort to systematically
document consultations. However, both the independent environmental and social audit and
recent implementation support missions have identified the need for OPIC to further improve the
documentation and filing of consultation records.

Environment
25.     Palm Oil Mill Effluent Action Plan. OPIC recruited consultants to undertake work on
establishing baseline information for each of the Project area palm oil mills. The effluent
baseline study was finalized in April 2013 and has been publicly disclosed by OPIC. The field
work for the follow-up effluent audit has also been completed and a final report was submitted to
the Bank in October 2013. This report will also be publicly disclosed by OPIC. The follow-up
effluent audit concluded that “overall, the palm oil mill effluent systems across all mills were
operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory compliance is achieved at each mill most of the
time.” A number of actions and mitigations measures were agreed with the relevant milling
companies during the baseline and follow-up audit. Most actions are being completed as
planned, and OPIC is expected to monitor and update on their implementation. This will be
documented in the final progress report. Progress has been made by the Department of
Environment and Conservation on updating the PNG Code of Practice for Palm Oil Processing.
This was also an agreed action in the Palm Oil Mill Effluent Action Plan. The Bank had an

                                                       
3
    These audits were undertaken by independent consultants recruited by OPIC under the Project.


                                                          5
opportunity to comment on the Terms of Reference and draft reports for this work and
participated in the public stakeholder consultations held in May 2012.

Institutional Sustainability
26.      Road Maintenance Trust Fund Consultations. OPIC recruited consultants to undertake
the RMTF study. The consultants commenced work in the first quarter of 2012 and held a
number of consultations across the three Project areas. The minutes of the consultations have
been documented in the Inception Report for the study. A second round of consultations was
completed in June 2013. A draft report on the RMTF design was completed and findings from
the first phase of work on the design were shared with all stakeholders prior to the launch of the
second round of consultations. A final design report was shared with the Bank in October 2013.
The final progress report will update on follow-up actions undertaken following the RMTF
study.

         Table 1: Overview Matrix on Overall Implementation Process of the MAP
               ACTION                                         STATUS
Management will assist OPIC in       Completed. OPIC prepared a Consultation Framework
developing a Consultation Framework which has guided consultations during implementation.
and ensuring that it is implemented  All consultations held during implementation on key
                                     Project activities, including those on the road
across the three Project areas
                                     rehabilitation works and on the Road Maintenance
                                     Trust Fund (RMTF), have largely complied with the
                                     Framework. Participants in the consultations were
                                     provided with clear information on Project activities in
                                     a culturally-appropriate fashion. Consultations with
                                     smallholder farmers were held in the local language
                                     and minutes of consultations were prepared.
                                     For consultations on the RMTF in 2013, at least 850
                                     farmers have signed attendance sheets during
                                     consultation meetings organized in 17 villages across
                                     the three project areas (Bialla, Hoskins and
                                     Popondetta). As early as 2011, consultations were
                                     completed for 27 roads included in the spot
                                     improvements program and agreement was received
                                     from 1,144 people in the Popondetta Project area. Road
                                     consultation meetings were attended by 1055 people
                                     and the Bank has examined samples of the consent
                                     forms signed in the Hoskins area. Also in 2011,
                                     consultations were attended by and agreement received
                                     from 473 people in the Bialla area. The 2012
                                     consultations involved 19 villages with attendance from
                                     more than 1,250 farmers in the three project areas: 6
                                     villages/310 peoples in Popondetta; 8 villages/428
                                     peoples in Hoskins; and 5 villages/413 peoples in
                                     Bialla.




                                                 6
               ACTION                                             STATUS
Management will continue to support      Ongoing. OPIC has continued to improve its
OPIC in improving the documentation      documentation of consultations. The documentation
of consultations during                  was reviewed during implementation support missions
                                         and guidance was provided by the Bank on further
implementation
                                         strengthening it. The quality of the documentation is
                                         moderately satisfactory. A copy of the documentation,
                                         including signed meeting attendance sheets, has been
                                         shared with the Bank, and the total of signatories can be
                                         reconstituted based on these sheets received by the
                                         Bank. In its minutes of consultations, OPIC has
                                         indicated that the attendance sheets underestimate the
                                         number of participants as not every participant signs
                                         one of the attendance sheets.
Management will continue to closely      Ongoing. Consultants recruited by OPIC completed the
support and monitor the                  field work for the effluent baseline in August 2012 and
implementation of the Effluent Action    the baseline report was finalized in April 2013. The
                                         report includes commitments by the Project area palm
Plan
                                         oil milling companies to implement mitigation
                                         measures to address issues identified in the baseline.
                                         Field work for the first follow-up effluent audit was
                                         completed in January/February 2013 and a final report
                                         was submitted to the Bank in October 2013. The
                                         follow-up effluent audit concluded that “overall, the
                                         palm oil mill effluent systems across all mills were
                                         operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory
                                         compliance is achieved at each mill most of the time.”
                                         A number of actions and mitigations measures were
                                         agreed with the relevant milling companies during the
                                         baseline and follow-up audit. Most actions are being
                                         completed as planned, and OPIC is expected to monitor
                                         and update on their implementation. This will be
                                         documented in the final progress report. The process
                                         for updating the PNG Code of Practice for the Palm Oil
                                         Processing Industry has progressed. Once finalized, the
                                         updated Code of Practice is expected to be adopted by
                                         Government. The Bank participated in the public
                                         consultation which was held in May 2012 and has
                                         reviewed and commented on the draft reports.
Management will verify that adequate     Ongoing. A first round of consultations was completed
consultations are conducted as part of   in May 2012, including over 20 consultations with
the Road Maintenance Trust Fund          smallholder growers over a period of three weeks
                                         across the three Project areas. A second round of
(RMTF) study and that the proposed
                                         consultations was undertaken in May/June 2013 and a
amount of the levy, if any, would not    report submitted to the Bank in October 2013. The
constitute an unsustainable financial    consultations indicated that the concept of a RMTF is


                                               7
               ACTION                                           STATUS
burden to the smallholders.            strongly supported by the smallholder growers. While
                                       some growers indicated that they would be willing to
                                       pay an additional levy, most growers were opposed to
                                       such a levy. Some growers agreed to pay up to 5
                                       percent of the maintenance costs of the oil palm roads
                                       (which is equal to about 3 Kina per ton of fruit) into a
                                       RMTF. However, there was resistance to the payment
                                       of another levy in addition to those already charged to
                                       the smallholder growers which include the OPIC and
                                       Oil Palm Research Association levies. Willingness to
                                       pay a RMTF levy was strongly dependent on the
                                       reduction of other levies. The RMTF study estimated
                                       that it will cost PGK60 million to complete a one-time
                                       rehabilitation of the road network in the three Project
                                       areas. The annual cost of maintenance following the
                                       rehabilitation was estimated at PGK50 million. The
                                       study recommended that the Government of PNG
                                       should pay for 80 percent of the annual maintenance
                                       cost, with the palm oil milling companies contributing
                                       15 percent and the remaining 5 percent being
                                       contributed by the growers. During the consultations,
                                       the milling companies indicated that they would only
                                       be willing to make a contribution to a RMTF if the full
                                       rehabilitation of the oil palm road network was
                                       completed. In June 2013, representatives of the
                                       Department of National Planning and Monitoring, the
                                       milling companies, the smallholders, and OPIC agreed
                                       that an application would be made under the Public
                                       Investment Program for funding the road rehabilitation
                                       and initial procurement of maintenance equipment as
                                       well as some limited maintenance to road sections that
                                       were rehabilitated under the Project. An application has
                                       been submitted for inclusion in the Government’s 2014
                                       development budget.


Implementation of Items from Annex 1

27.    Management also agreed to report back on items detailed in Annex 1 of the Management
Response, which did not relate to allegations of noncompliance and harm, but which sought to
improve overall Project implementation. A summary is provided in the table below. Only items
where follow-up actions were required are listed.

 



                                             8
                            Table 2: Annex 1 Action Implementation
                    ACTION                                           STATUS
Item 2: Gathering baseline information          Completed. A baseline survey was completed
                                                for the Project.
Item 3: Identification of Project Stakeholders  Completed. As indicated above, OPIC
and Elaboration of a Consultation Process with prepared a Consultation Framework and is
Indigenous Peoples                              implementing the Framework.
Item 5: Identification of Measures to Avoid     Completed. OPIC is now systematically
Adverse Effects and Ensure that Indigenous      documenting consultations. Minutes of the
People Receive Culturally Appropriate           consultations are reviewed by implementation
Benefits                                        support missions and areas for improvement
                                                have been identified and discussed with OPIC.
Item 7: Consultation with Customary Leaders     Completed. OPIC’s consultations during
                                                implementation continue to involve clan
                                                leaders and this has been documented.
Item 8: Sharing of Information in Appropriate   Completed. OPIC continues to share
Form and Language                               information in an appropriate form and
                                                language. For example, participants in the
                                                second round of RMTF consultations received
                                                a Tok Pisin summary of the draft findings of
                                                the study.
Item 12: Improving Livelihoods: Savings and     Completed. Workshops on income generation
Income Diversification                          opportunities were conducted by the SADP
                                                Extension Specialist. As an outcome of this
                                                workshop, an Income Generating Projects
                                                Committee was established in Oro Province
                                                with representation from the growers, the
                                                provincial government, financial institutions,
                                                community organizations, churches and
                                                NGOS. One of the objectives of the committee
                                                is to help link growers with other opportunities
                                                available in the province.
Item 16: Chemical and Biological                Ongoing. Management committed to continue
Pollution of Waterways                          to closely support and monitor the
                                                implementation of the Effluent Action Plan. As
                                                elaborated above, progress has been made on
                                                implementing the Plan.
Item 17: Risk of Deforestation of High          Completed. Two independent environmental
Conservation Value Forests                      and social audits have been completed. The
                                                audits did not find evidence of destruction of
                                                primary forests or high conservation value
                                                forests as a result of infill planting. Remote
                                                sensing work was completed on land use and
                                                forest cover change for Oro by the European
                                                Space Agency. Forest Cover Change maps of
                                                the period between 2005 and 2011 indicate that


                                               9
                  ACTION                                                 STATUS
                                                     no primary forest was cleared for oil palm
                                                     plantation expansion in Oro after 2005, which
                                                     is in compliance with the requirements of the
                                                     Round Table for Sustainable Palm Oil.
Item 18: Road Maintenance Trust Fund                 Ongoing. As elaborated above, the Bank has
(RMTF)                                               verified that adequate consultations have been
                                                     conducted as part of the RMTF study. As
                                                     reported in the Management Response, OPIC
                                                     plans to procure three graders to ensure that
                                                     roads that are in good or fair condition are
                                                     maintained. The first round of bidding for the
                                                     graders was unsuccessful as OPIC did not
                                                     receive any responsive bids. This is now in the
                                                     process of being retendered.


Summary of Outstanding Issues

28.     Follow-up effluent audit and monitoring. The final report from the follow-up effluent
audit to review compliance of the palm oil mill effluent with standards as per the existing and
updated Code of Practice for Palm Oil Processing was submitted by OPIC to the Bank in
October 2013. Of the ten mills in the Project area four were found to be compliant with the PNG
regulations 100 percent of the time, two were found to be compliant 98 percent of the time, one
was compliant 97 percent of the time, one was compliant 68 percent of the time and one was
compliant 35 percent of time. For one mill it was not possible to assess compliance as this is a
new mill for which historical data were not available. This mill was not fully operational at the
time of the baseline study in August 2012. The report concluded that “overall palm oil mill
effluent treatment systems across all mills were operating adequately to ensure PNG regulatory
compliance is achieved at each mill most of the time.” A number of issues were identified during
the baseline assessment in August 2012 in regard to some of the effluent treatment systems. To
address these issues, a number of actions and mitigation measures were recommended and
agreed with the milling companies. During the follow-up assessment in February 2013, the
implementation progress of the recommended actions and mitigation measures was assessed,
with findings presented in the final report. The timeframe for implementation of the majority of
the agreed actions and mitigation measures is the end of either 2013 or 2014, therefore it was not
expected that they would have been fully implemented at the time of the follow-up assessment of
February 2003. Most actions continue to be completed as planned, and OPIC is expected to
monitor and update on their implementation. This will be documented in the final progress
report.

29.    Completion of the RMTF Study. The RMTF study is completed. Management will
provide update on any follow-up action in the final progress report.




                                                10
                                     III.   NEXT STEPS

30.     Progress has been made on all the activities identified in the MAP and Management
expects to be able to provide the final progress report to the Board by the end of FY 2014 upon
completion of all outstanding Action Plan items. The Project closed on December 31, 2013.




                                               11
