Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19366-KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.1 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FORA
SECOND RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Som
I Som= US$ 0.023
US$ 1 = 43.52 Som
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC      Agricultural Consumer Cooperatives
APEAC  Agriculture Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
ASSP    Agricultural Services Support Project
EA       Environmental Assessment
FDF      Farm Development Fund
GOK      Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
LAS      International Accounting Standards
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD    International Fund for Agriculture Development
ISA      International Standards of Auditing
KAFC    Krygyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative
M&E    monitoring & evaluation
MEP      Ministry of Environmental Protection
MIS      management information system
MOF    Ministry of Finance
NBK      National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
NGO      non-governmental organization
PESP    Private Enterprise Support Project
PFI      participating financial institution
PMU      Project Management Unit
RCG      Rural Credit Guidelines
RFP I   (First) Rural Finance Project
RFP II   Second Rural Finance Project
SA      social assessment
SCFI    State Committee for Foreign Investments and
Economic Development (GOSCOMINVEST)
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SFCOP   Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program
SHG      self help group
SME      small and medium enterprises
SOE      statement of expense
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader: Hoonae Kim



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SECOND RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      4
2. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        1 7
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                          17
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          19
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Social                                                                             21
6. Environmental assessment                                                           21
7. Participatory approach                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    24
2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     26
_j-



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            26
2. Other                                                                                26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           27
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       56
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                         57
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    59
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              61
Annex 11: Financial Management                                                            63
Annex 12: Social Issues and Social Assessment                                              66
Annex 13: Environment Assessment - Summary of Assessment Results                           80
MAP(S)
IBRD 30171
_jj_



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Rural Finance II
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
(ECSSD) Environmentally and Social Sustainable Development
Date: May 31, 1999                               Team Leader: Hoonae Kim
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera         Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: 64585                                Sector(s): AC - Agricultural Credit
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
O Loan         M Credit        EL Grant        O] Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m) US$15 million equivalent (SDR 11.1 million)
Proposed Terms: L To be defined   3 Multicurrency O Single currency
Z Standard Variable OI Fixed       LI LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           10
Years to maturity:              35
Commitment fee:                 0.5%
Service charge                  0.75%
Government                                                     1.50           0.00          1.50
IBRD                                                           0.00           0.00          0.00
IDA                                                            5.00          10.00         15.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                  3.80           0.00          3.80
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                           2.60           0.00          2.60
Total:                                                        12.90          10.00         22.90
Borrower: Kyrgyz Republic
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Finance
Implementing agency(ies):
Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
Address: 50, Pushkin Str., 720011, Bishkek c., Kyrgyz Republic
Contact Person: Baktygul Jeenbaeva
Tel: 996 312 22 63 35               Fax: 996 312 61 06 64              Email: kafc@infotel.kg
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual    1.00         2.50         4.00        4.50       3.00
Cumulative    1.00         3.50        7.50       12.00       15.00
Project implementation period: FY2000-FY2004
Expected effectiveness date: 10/30/99  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS PAD F-:   S.obe 9199



INTRODUCTION
First Rural Finance Project
The proposed project is a follow-up to the first Rural Finance Project (RFP I) that the International
Development Association (IDA) approved for SDR 11.9 million (US$16 million equivalent) in June 1997.
The RFP I (Cr. 29590-KG) was designed at a time when limited institutional and human resources were
available to support the transition from a centrally-directed command economy to a market economy and
the newly emerging capital markets were insufficient to meet the needs of a market system rapidly
developing in response to enterprise privatization.
In the years immediately following independence, the Government was the primary provider of
credit to the agricultural sector, intermediated mostly by Agroprombank. There were almost no other bank
s involved in the agricultural credit at that time. Agroprombank, despite its extensive rural branch network,
lacked the experience in commercial loan appraisal and suffered from a high default rate. In 1996 the
Government undertook a comprehensive financial sector reform (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, Cr.
2890-KG) designed to address the serious lack of confidence in the sector, the oligopolistic nature and
insolvency of commercial banks and the substantial bad debt problem. As part of this reform program,
Agroprombank was liquidated and placed under receivership.
Other commercial banks, however, were not prepared to fill the void created by the closing of
Agroprombank. Existing banks had no rural branch network, no expertise in agricultural lending, and no
understanding of the type of assets available as collateral in the countryside. Their technology and
expertise were geared toward large-scale industrial and trade finance. Moreover, the banking sector was
generally weak and not in a position to expand and move into new markets.
Against this backdrop, RFP I established a non-bank financial institution--the Kyrgyz Agricultural
Finance Corporation (KAFC)--to serve the newly emerging private farmers and rural enterprises. KAFC
was intended as a temporary institution that would serve the rural sector for a limited period of time and
then be absorbed into the commercial banking sector. KAFC was designed to function primarily on a
commercial basis--extending credit based on rigorous financial appraisal, taking full collateral, and fully
covering its cost of funds, administrative margin, and provisioning with its on-lending rates. It was also
intended to develop a Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) aimed at reaching groups of
farmers who could offer joint and several liability (i.e. social collateral) in lieu of physical collateral. As
part of the Government's strategy to increase financing to the sector, a number of other programs were also
initiated, including the development of rural credit unions which are receiving support from the Asian
Development Bank.
KAFC was designed to succeed where commercial banks could not and performance to date has
exceeded expectations. Since its creation, KAFC has established itself as a major financial institution that
lends predominantly to agricultural and associated borrowers. Credit officers were explicitly trained to
understand agricultural markets for outputs, inputs, and rural assets offered as security. Repayment rates
have been good, and KAFC's lending portfolio has expanded. Credit disbursements are well ahead of the
appraisal estimate. Experience with this project shows that the demand for rural credit not only exists but
is strong and urgent.
-2-



Implementation Summary of Rural Finance Project (as of May 31, 1999)
During the 26 months of operation since starting in March 1997, KAFC has:
*  approved 1,672 sub-loans by KAFC, and 137 sub-loans by SFCOP
*  approved a total sub-loan amount of around 10.6 million SDR (about 89% of the credit), of which 9.0 million SDR
(US$12.2 million equivalent) has been disbursed from the Credit Account
*  built a total outstanding loan portfolio amounting to 137 million Soms
*  set 1999 lending targets at 200 million Soms (about 20% growth per annum)
*  on-lent in local currency at interest rates between 28-30% per annum which are substantially positive in real terms
(vs. 1998 inflation of 18%) and fully cover the cost of funding, administration cost, and risk premium
*  received the Subsidiary Loan in Soms from the Government. KAFC pays interest rates which are based on actual
inflation rates, and-current interest rates to ultimate borrowers cover the cost of funding, administrative costs and
foreign exchange premiums
*  maintained satisfactory repayment performance
Project impact to date has:
*  filled a critical gap in agricultural finance
*  provided access to funds for small-scale borrowers, including outreach to small private farmers
*  facilitated the phasing out of publicly administered, subsidized credit
*  induced changes in borrowers' understanding of prudent borrowing and obligation to repay
*  established a good initial foundation for comnnercial crediting in the agricultural sector
*  dernonstrated the financial viability of commercial lending to the agricultural sector
Need for Continuous Support
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic (GOK) has requested a second Rural Finance Project
(RFP II) to strengthen the rural financial system during the transition, and to expand and diversify the
agricultural lending base and clientele. The proposed second project will support the strengthening of
KAFC and further develop the practice and usage of social collateral. In its request, the GOK stressed the
urgency of preparation of this project in order to ensure a seamless and timely flow of critical agricultural
sector finance and appropriate institutional strengthening in the aftermath of the recent regional financial
turmoil, while at the same time safeguarding the successful implementation of RFP I. While the RFP I is
achieving its intended development objectives and has successfully demonstrated that agricultural financing
can be commercially viable, its design and scope were deliberately limited in order to fully test the concept.
KAFC has only reached 10 percent of the potential credit-worthy clients with business plans and adequate
physical collateral to date. The demand of the remaining 90 percent of commercial farmers, processors,
and other potential rural entrepreneurs remains unsatisfied. KAFC has lent mostly for working capital to
private farmers and has only recently begun lending long-term credit for agro-processing and other
agri-business.
The SFCOP component in RFP I was intended to extend credit to borrowers who lack physical
collateral or other assets required as security by accepting joint and several liability through group lending
based on social collateral. In practice, however, this component has been slow to develop and
group-lending remains heavily based on full physical collateral, with the same terms and conditions KAFC
offers to and demands of individual borrowers. Therefore, the objective of increasing access to credit based
on social collateral has not yet been achieved. This may have been due in part to the overloading of KAFC
with the responsibility for group formation and support and to a lack of trained staff who fully understand
the concepts of group borrowing and social collateral. There is also a lack of understanding among rural
people of the benefits and responsibilities of being a group member. The proposed RFP II will address
these gaps by combining SFCOP with the Farm Development Fund (FDF)--funded by IFAD (as part of the
Agricultural Service Support Project jointly financed by IDA)--by providing support to potential group
members, and by providing meaningful support for sustainable group formation and the establishment of a
-3-



social collateral system.
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objectives of the proposed Second Rural Finance Project are to: (a)
strengthen and expand a sustainable rural financial system that will serve a broad range of beneficiaries,
including small-scale farms and rural entrepreneurs; (b) contribute to the reduction of poverty in rural areas
by supporting the development of viable economic activities (on- and off-farm) to generate income; and (c)
expand access to credit for those with limited collateral.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress toward project objectives will be monitored through a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system of key performance indicators. These include: (a) increases in institutional lending to rural clients;
(b) soundness of portfolio quality with minimum repayment rates of at least 85 percent; (c) demonstrated
improvement in the profitability of major agricultural commodities as estimated by random sample
analysis; and (d) demonstrated increases in income levels in rural areas. Items (a) and (b) will be a part of
regular M&E of KAFC's operations, while items (c) and (d) will be measured by follow-up social impact
assessments which will be carried out during project implementation. An initial social assessment has been
completed to establish a baseline reference for future monitoring and evaluation of the project impact.
Other measurable indicators of project performance include: the diversity of activities financed (in terms of
number, wider outreach of clients, and types and sizes of sub-loans); improvement in business support
services, e.g. availability of information, preparation of business plans, and other consulting services for
small-scale enterprises in rural areas; and improvements in performance and sustainability of groups as
demonstrated by on-time repayment and repeated borrowing by the same group. When other participating
financial institutions (PFIs) join the project, a similar set of indicators will be developed for measuring their
perfornance. These performance indicators will be an integral part of semi-annual progress reports that
will be submitted to IDA.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17641-KG                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/07/98
The proposed continued investment in rural finance is consistent with the Bank Group's country
assistance strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic, as outlined in the IBRD, IDA, and IFC Joint Country
Assistance Strategy Memorandum dated April 14, 1998. The country strategy emphasizes the establish
ment of long-term sustainable growth to reduce poverty, to provide the Government with the means
necessary to improve basic human services and institutional capacity, and to improve Government finances.
RFP II, which is consistent with the Government's overall reform program, will contribute to: (a) the
deepening of a fiscally sustainable rural finance system that will provide critically needed capital for
production inputs and capital investment to foster economic growth in the agricultural sector; (b)
accelerated development of private-sector activities in rural areas; (c) improvement in the efficiency of the
rural sector to compete in a market economy; and (d) implementation of effective, well-targeted, and
commercially viable private investment which should generate increased employment and income, reduce
poverty, and improve the living standards of the rural population. The proposed project is also consistent
with the strategic objectives of the Comprehensive Development Framework for which the Kyrgyz
-4-



Republic is a pilot country.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
General Issues. Despite significant policy achievements, including the virtual elimination of
government intervention in commercial markets, many reforms are still on-going, and the private sector
faces considerable constraints that prevent it from fully responding to the new market environment. The
economy depends heavily on agriculture, which accounts for more than 45 percent of GDP and
employment. About 75 percent of the population (excluding Bishkek) lives in rural areas, and almost
two-thirds of the rural population is below the poverty line. However, the sector's growth is constrained by
high population density and low -productivity, outdated technology, poor extension services, a deteriorating
irrigation system which services 80 percent of the arable land, and finally by lack of financial resources.
The rural population is also faced with limited access to transportation and information, and with cultural
and social traditions that have deterred many people from actively seeking out alternative economic
activities to generate income.
Government Strategies
Long-term Sustainable Growth. Following the successful completion of the Agriculture
Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC, Cr. 27500-KG) which laid the foundation for
sector reform, the Government's over-arching objective is to establish long-term sustainable growth. The
two broad directions of the Government's development strategy are (a) private sector development and (b)
poverty reduction. For private sector growth, priority is given to agriculture and the revitalization of
agro-industry. This is appropriate in view of the large part of the population that depends on agriculture
for its livelihood and the country's comparative advantage in agriculture. The Government has acted
quickly to protect banks from the effects of fnancial instability, to strengthen systems and human capital;
and to provide the institutional development to support the expansion necessary for the growing real sector
needs in agriculture. Emphasis is also placed on improving the regulatory environment for business. For
poverty reduction, the Government is pursuing a complementary strategy of increasing agricultural
productivity and economic rates of return from their currently depressed levels, raising the incomes of the
majority of the population that live in rural areas, together with improving the targeting of social
assistance.
The strategy for viable rural growth was discussed and agreed with the Government, local
stakeholders, NGOs and donors during the Second International Agricultural Conference in Bishkek in
December 1997. It encompasses a combination of specific investments to provide public goods in
agriculture, policy reform and institutional development. A large part of the Government's investment
program concentrates on the rehabilitation of the irrigation system, initially at the main canal level and
subsequently at the on-farm level through the establishment of water user associations that will assume
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems within their areas. Appropriate water
pricing policies are being developed as part of this strategy. Public investment also focuses on adaptive
research and on rural advisory services, livestock and pasture management, rural infrastructure, and market
information systems to increase the efficiency of input and commodity markets. Policy reforms in support
of farm restructuring and the issuance of land ownership certificates to private farmers continue. A
nationwide land registration system is being established to help foster the development of land markets (in
both rural and urban areas) which will enable farmers to increase their access to credit through
collateralization of land. Institution building focuses on human resource development in the institutions
dealing with agriculture, improving the quality and accessibility of information relevant to the sector,
-5-



promoting exports of agricultural commodities, and creating/strengthening institutions that support private
agriculture, particularly agricultural inputs supply. In support of GOK's strategy, the Bank Group has
supported six agriculture based operations to date and is preparing an On-Farm Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project and a Land Registration Project. The proposed RFP II complements and supports these efforts.
Financial Sector Issues. In 1996, the Government initiated a comprehensive reform program to
improve the efficiency and profitability of the financial system. The two largest state-owned banks were
liquidated, and two former state-owned banks were restructured and recapitalized by private investors. As
part of this program, the NBK introduced a new regulatory and supervision framework. As a result, a
small core of well-managed private commercial banks is emerging. Despite this progress, financial
intermediation in general remains very low (the ratio of deposits to GDP is only six percent, of which more
than half is dollar denominated), and banks have only recently begun to extend term loans for investment.
As of December 31, 1998, there were 20 commercial banks in the Kyrgyz Republic, which have all been
adversely affected by the 1998 Russian financial crisis and other external and domestic shocks. As a result
there has been a notable deterioration in the quality of the banks' portfolios. Loans in NBK's "under
supervision" classification have increased from 9.1 percent to 21 percent in the one-year period from
December 1997 to December 1998, and three of the five largest banks were recently put under the
administration of NBK due to weak financial positions.
KAFC has not been completely shielded from the global and regional financial sector events, and
there is ar. urgent need to strengthen its capacity by improving the quality of the management information
system (MIS), its internal auditing and control, financial management, asset and liability management, and
forecasting. To date, the impact of the recent turmoil in the regional banking sector on KAFC has been
limnited, but unless precautionary steps are taken, the risk of default remains high. The rapid expansion of
KAFC's portfolio and the introduction of term-lending is straining its capacity and has brought to light the
need for further training in risk assessment and term loan analysis. To address these needs, RFP II will
provide substantial capacity building support through technical assistance and training to bolster KAFC's
commercial lending capacity.
nimited Rural Finance Intermediation. Recent developments in the banking sector seem to
reinforce the continued need for KAFC's activities. Commercial banks are unlikely to fill the critical gap in
providing credit to the farmers and small-scale enterprises scattered throughout the rural areas of the
country for some time. For the most part, they are in a period of consolidation and are not at a point where
the investments in new branches that would be required to move from the rural sector would be advisable.
Over time, however, it is expected that several of the stronger banks would gain both the capacity and the
interest to move into the rural sector. KAFC is poised to serve this function and is expected to continue to
be the main financial intermediary to the rural sector, delivering small loans efficiently to a large number of
rural clients. This is possible because KAFC: (a) knows the sector well; (b) already has an extensive
lending network through small local offices in rural areas and mobile credit officers; (c) has an established
roster of clients with demonstrated sound borrowing records who are likely to borrow again; and (d) has
gained strong public support and confidence through active public awareness campaign work.
-6-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Against the above background, the following specific areas will be addressed under the proposed
project: (a) strengthening the rural financial system and stimulating the flow of commercial financing to
rural areas for agricultural and off-farm business development; (b) improving the efficiency and
self-sustainability of financial institutions through TA; (c) supporting group formation and increasing
access to credit based on a social collateral system; (d) supporting business development capacity in
agriculture; (e) fostering economic growth in agriculture and other rural sectors, contributing to poverty
reduction in rural areas; and (f) gradually reducing the (implicit) subsidy on the cost of capital to KAFC.
One of the key constraints on sector development is the lack of a rural financial system for
fnancing working and investment capital. This project aims at addressing this issue directly by providing
term capital and strengthening the key lending institution to the sector--KAFC--and indirectly by
strengthening borrowers' ability and capacity to borrow (by providing technical assistance to individual
borrowers by helping to form borrowers' group which can offer social capital in lieu of physical collateral
as security on their loans). Ultimately the project will contribute to stronger financial and rural sectors by
building institutions that serve the lower end of the financial spectrum. Although commercial banks are
presently not interested in participating in the project, after concrete demonstration that lending to rural
enterprises can be profitable, some of them may later become participating financial intermediaries.
Another key issue in rural areas is poverty. Just over one-half of the total population lives in
poverty. Rural poverty rates are more than twice those of urban areas, while extreme poverty rates in rural
areas are four times what they are in urban areas. This project aims explicitly at reaching rural
populations and directly targets the relatively poorer segment through the Special Credit line for SFCOP.
The Government is committed to moving lending rates progressively toward market rates, although
there are differences of view as to what constitutes a market rate for term capital. Government treasury
rates were as high as 42 percent at the end of March 1999, due to instability in the economy caused by
domestic and external shocks in the region. The interbank market is extremely thin and volatile. It is
expected that both of these markets will stabilize and develop and may become more indicative of market
rates over time.
At present, the Government receives IDA funds at 0.75 percent and on-lends to KAFC at a rate no
less than the rate of inflation (currently 18 percent). This means there is an implicit subsidy in the current
arrangement, amounting to the difference between the "market cost of capital" and the rates at which
KAFC will borrow under the project. This modest institutional subsidy is justifiable--because the bulk of it
represents IDA funds which will go through the GOK budget and then be transferred to KAFC, mainly for
institutional capacity building for KAFC itself, and because KAFC's lending is directed at clients which
constitute the relatively poorer populations of the Kyrgyz Republic. All subsidies will be explicitly
accounted for. As market interest rates decline (as they are expected to) and/or adjustments to the
on-lending rates are made, this implicit subsidy is expected to be eliminated.
During the implementation of RFP II, the Government has committed itself to progressively
reducing the subsidies by adjusting the on-lending rates to KAFC every six months to gradually approach a
benchmark for market rates. The specific rate will be agreed on by IDA and the borrower six months after
effectiveness and every six months thereafter. KAFC will establish its on-lending rates to fully cover its
cost of funds, administrative costs, provisioning, and risk. One of the mechanisms which will be used for
monitoring and quantifying subsidies is the Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI).
-7-



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. Rural Finance Component (Component cost - US$20.4 million, of which IDA US$14 million)
A.1 Commercial Credit Line (Sub-component cost - US$16.1 nullion, of which IDA US$11 million)
This sub-component will provide a credit line to KAFC (and other commercial banks when they
become eligible) to on-lend for working capital and investment under commercial terms and conditions.
On-lending will be at rates that will progressively approach market rates and will start at no less than
inflation plus a margin for KAFC that covers all administrative costs, the cost of provisioning, and a risk
premium relevant for each borrower. Anticipated sub-projects would include, among others: on-farm
investment for development of agricultural production, including the provision of seasonal working capital
as appropriate; investment for development of processing, storage, packing, marketing, and other off-farm
agri-business and service sectors; and other rural income-generating activities that have proven positive
cash-flows supported by sound business plans. Intended ultimate beneficiaries for the regular credit line
are those who have commercially viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral, adequate financial
rates of return, and demonstrated repayment capacity. Borrowers will have to meet strict eligibility
requirements related to their ownership, share holding, and management. There will be a system of prior
review to assure that eligibility criteria are enforced; KAFC and other eventual PFIs will be required to
submit the first three sub-loans and any sub-loan greater than US$200,000 equivalent for IDA's prior
review. KAFC (and in future other participating financial institutions) will maintain full autonomy in the
selection of borrowers, approval of sub-projects, and determination of lending terms, and will bear all of
the lending risks.
The Government will also subscribe in KAFC's share capital to ensure that KAFC can maintain
the capital adequacy ratio required by the prudential rules set by NBK. It was agreed during negotiations
that the similar practices to those employed under RFP I will be maintained, i.e. 15 percent of each
withdrawal made for sub-loans will be registered as GOK's share in KAFC. IDA funds earmarked for
technical assistance and for the GOK share capital in KAFC will not be on-lent.
As agreed under the RFP I, KAFC is eventually to be privatized, and this remains an institutional
objective under RFP II. The timing of the privatization process will depend, however, on how quickly the
current regional financial crisis is resolved and on the ability of the private financial sector in the Kyrgyz-
Republic to invest in KAFC and take over its functions and portfolio. The appropriate timing for KAFC
privatization will also be closely linked to the capacity and willingness of the commercial banks to lend to
small-scale enterprises, including farmers. A plan for KAFC privatization will be developed during the
Mid-Term Review, which will take place when disbursement from the credit line reaches 50 percent,
or around December 2001, whichever is earlier.
Future Role of Commercial Banks. Commercial banks are expected to play a key role in the
future in providing financial intermediation services for rural areas. However, in recent months
commercial banks have experienced difficulties due to the external and domestic shocks buffeting the
economy. They, therefore, have been unprepared to venture into new lending activities in the rural sector
without the proper tools and experience. The timing is not right at present for the participation of
-8-



commercial banks. It was therefore agreed that KAFC would be the sole participating intermediary until
the Mid-Term Review, at which time commercial bank participation will be considered. In this regard, the
NBK will closely monitor the actual performance of the commercial banks in the other IDA-supported
credit line under the PESP, before encouraging them to engage in agricultural credit. To ensure that KAFC
sustains its positive track record and remains sound in the face of the present regional financial sector
problems, the Government has requested that the project focus first on strengthening the institutional and
human capacity of KAFC.
Once the banking sector stabilizes and commercial banks express interest in participating in the
project, specific arrangements will be made to assess their eligibility to participate. Subsidiary Loan A
greements will be concluded with the newly qualified PFIs according to the prevailing terms and conditions
for all IDA credit lines. These eligibility criteria will include full compliance with NBK's regulations,
sufficient capital adequacy, sound financial policies, and institutional capacity with professional staff
adequately trained and specialized in medium- and long-term lending for investments and a sufficient
network of branches in rural areas (see Annex 2).
A.2 Special Credit Line for Small-Farmers Credit Outreach Program (Sub-component cost - US$4.3
million, of which IDA US$3 million).
This sub-component will provide credit for group lending based on "social collateral" to allow
those with inadequate physical collateral but with sound bankable projects to receive loans. Group lending
relies on peer pressure to guarantee repayment. Currently, KAFC is implementing two different
group-lending schemes under different terms and conditions. Under this sub-component, these schemes will
be consolidated, and improved implementation modalities will be introduced.
B. Institutional Development Component (Component cost - US$2.5 million, of which IDA US$1
million)
B.1 Capacity building support for KAFC (Sub-component cost - US$2.0 million, of which IDA
US$0.5 million)
This sub-component will support comprehensive capacity building in KAFC to improve its
operating efficiency and ensure that it can survive as a self-sustaining financial intermediary. This effort
will include: (a) improving KAFC's capacity in loan appraisal; financial, asset, and liability management;
accounting and internal audit and control; and other areas covering the full spectrum of KAFC's operations
as well as personnel management and training of staff; (b) simplifying loan processing procedures and
streamlining legal and documentary requirements for loan processing; (c) upgrading KAFC's management
information system (MIS); (d) adopting a corporate governance and supervisory structure that would give
KAFC full autonomy in its lending activities; and (e) developing medium-term corporate strategies and
business plans with financial projection. In addition, legal advice will be provided regarding the
introduction of moveable property and fixed-assets as collateral, streamlining current legal clearances for
loan processing, etc. KAFC will also receive practical training in assessing the markets for various
products that it may finance. Completion of KAFC's lending manual acceptable to IDA, completion of
the first round of new training programs for lending staff andfinal selection of the IT/MIS system
will be conditions of disbursement of the credit line component. Other eligible PFIs, in the future, will
also receive similar training.
Recognizing that a lack of transportation is one of the key constraints faced by the rural
population, RFP II will establish mobile credit officers to implement both A. I and A.2 credit lines. This
-9-



innovation has proved to be the keystone of other rural finance projects supported by the Bank/IDA.
Approximately ten vehicles will be included in the project financing for this purpose.
B.2. Other TA support (Sub-component cost - US$0.5 million, 100% IDA.)
This sub-component will provide institutional support to address constraints due to lack of
collateral and understanding about uses of credit and the prerequisites to obtain it.
TA and training to develop group lending, based on social collateral (US$0.3 million) will be
provided to enable the project to reach a wide spectrum of rural people, including those near and below the
poverty line. Specific assistance will be provided for group formation and to enhance group sustainability.
This component will be designed to empower local groups to successfully deal with financial issues related
to obtaining and using credit, as well as to obtain technical information and support needed to become
profitable farmers and entrepreneurs. To minimize duplicative initiatives, this sub-component will be
coordinated with other on-going TA, including the UNDP-supported Poverty Alleviation Project which
provides support for group formation at village level and the group development activities of the Rural
Advisory and Development Service (RADS) recently established under the Agricultural Support Services
Project (ASSP) with funding from IFAD, IDA, and the Swiss Government. The project will also explore
the opportunity to work with other existing agencies, e.g. NGOs and other donor-funded agencies, that are
already active in the rural areas to provide group formation support. The main emphasis will be given to
training local trainers and establishing local agencies for the sustainability of this type of support.
Development of small-scale rural business development services (US$0.2 nullion). TA will be
provided to establish institutional capacity to promote small-scale economic activities in the rural areas
through the dissemination of information on (a) the availability of credit and terms and conditions of
borrowing, (b) preparation of loan applications and supporting documents, (c) marketing, (d) opportunities
for training, and (e) other private sector development support services in rural areas. Ultimately this
support would lead to the development of bankable projects that can be financed through the credit line
component and increase credit flow to rural areas. There will be partial cost recovery for these services
through fees based on the client income levels. Other costs would be covered by the Borrower or donor
grants. Potential partners include SME development centers, Rural Advisory and Development Centers
(supported under ASSP), NGOs, and other donor supported private agencies.
A. CREDIT LINE COMPONENT           AC - Agricultural    20.40     89.1      14.00      93.3
Credit
B. INSTITUTIONAL DELOPMENT   FS - Financial             2.50       10.9      1.00       6.7
COMPONENT                          Sector
Development
Total Project Costs                   22.90      100.0      15.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    22.90      100.0     15.00      100.0
-10-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Government has undertaken far-reaching policy reforms in the agricultural sector, removed
most distortions in pricing, marketing and trade, and implemented privatization programs for farms and
agri-businesses. The proposed project builds on the progress already made by assisting farmers and rural
enterprises through credit-led restructuring to help them adapt to the new market-oriented environment. In
particular, RFP II will: (a) facilitate interest rates moving to market rates; (b) further strengthen a sound,
commercially oriented financial intermediary - KAFC; (c) expand group lending operations through a
participatory approach and social cohesion; (d) encourage participation by other PFIs by demonstrating
that rural finance can be viable; and (e) induce changes in borrowing culture and behavior.
3. Benefits and target population:
The principal benefits of the project will be (a) financial and economic benefits in the form of
increased agricultural productivity and output through new investment and continued restructuring of the
agricultural sector; and (b) an increase in incomes and employment opportunities including diversification
into non-agricultural economic activities in the rural areas. Local participation and self-empowerment are
cornerstones of the project, which is designed to facilitate and expand access to credit for those previously
excluded from capital markets. While the project will increase the provision of financial services to small
farmers and small-scale rural entrepreneurs, it would also yield financial sector benefits such as creation of
self-sustainable rural finance intermediation capacity and development of human capital.
Beneficiary Targeting. The target population will be rural inhabitants (who make up 75 percent of
poor in the country) and the bankable rural poor. The SFCOP sub-component will finance the lower end of
the financial spectrum that is normally too insignificant or without sufficient collateral for commercial
banks. It will serve small-scale rural entrepreneurs who lack sufficient collateral and self-financing but
have viable project proposals. Rural social assessments carried out during project preparation (see Annex
12) indicate that the target population has a substantial credit demand and there are numerous viable
activities for financing. These potential borrowers lack credit experience, however, and have a high level of
mistrust for all financial institutions. Of all institutions, KAFC has achieved the highest level of trust.
Typically, the rural poor are engaged in labor-intensive activities for which the addition of small
amounts of capital generates very high rates of return. Experience with the SFCOP and other
donor-supported micro-credit schemes has led to the decision to increase the availability of credit to groups
based on social collateral. It has been found in the Kyrgyz Republic and elsewhere that groups of
inexperienced borrowers require substantial support and training to ensure that the social bonds are strong
and group responsibilities are honored. The SFCOP will thus be complemented by a group organizing and
training facility to support and help villagers to create self-help groups and prepare them to become KAFC
clients.
Geographical Targeting. The project will be implemented nationwide and will include all viable
economic activities in the rural areas. SFCOP's support to small-scale borrowers will be accessible to
potential borrowers throughout the country, but group formation support and training will focus initially on
areas with relatively high population density and high concentration of rural poor, and with the most
proactive participation of local community.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. Project implementation will take place over approximately five years
with an expected completion date of December 31, 2003 and a Credit closing date of June 30, 2004.
-11-



Project Executing Agency. KAFC will be the sole project executing agency until other PFIs qualify
to participate in project implementation. Participation by eligible commercial banks will be revisited during
the Mid-Term Review. Although KAFC is not a bank, it underwent a thorough assessment by the NBK
which affirmed that KAFC is in full compliance with relevant prudential guidelines and in sound financial
condition to on-lend under RFP II. In addition, during project preparation, the IDA team has also assessed
the KAFC's financial, operational and institutional capacity and confirmed that it fully satisfies the
eligibility criteria for PFIs (with the exception of the banking license requirement as KAFC is not a bank).
The State Committee for Foreign Investment and Economic Development (SCFI) will oversee the
implementation of the TA component.
Project Management. Under RFP I, KAFC performed a dual function as a financial intermediary
and a project management unit (PMU). All required functions such as monitoring, evaluation, reporting,
and carrying out an audit, etc., were performed satisfactorily. Under the RFP II, KAFC will continue to
perform the day-to-day project implementation and management functions. Specifically, KAFC will: (a)
prepare statements of expenditures and manage the Special Account; (b) submit a quarterly summary
report to NBK of its progress in lending operations; (c) maintain all relevant data on project
implementation including disbursement from the Credit Account, on-lending activities such as amount and
quality of its loan portfolio; (d) prepare and submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA; and (e) engage
independent auditors to audit KAFC and the Special Account and submit audited financial statements to
IDA within six months from the closing of the calendar year. KAFC will regularly report on the status of
the project to the State Committee on Foreign Investments and Economic Development on a monthly basis.
KAFC will appoint designated staff to fulfill the project management responsibilities, and they will receive
the necessary training in IDA requirements on project implementation including procurement, disbursement
and environmental clearance. When other commercial banks join as PFIs, responsibility for overseeing and
ensuring that project implementation is consistent with stated project objectives will shift from KAFC to
another appropriate agency. At negotiations, an agreement was reached that KAFC will provide the
PMU functions until a decision is reached with respect to commercial bank's role in the project. The
PMU will be maintained with appropriate staffing andfunding support throughout project
inplementation.
Implementation of the Credit Component. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will on-lend the credit
line funds to eligible PFIs, which will, in turn, extend sub-loans to the ultimate intended project
beneficiaries. Participating PFIs will have to satisfy agreed eligibility criteria (see Annex 2). PFIs will
lend in domestic currency (Som), with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk. Currently the
cost of the Government bearing this foreign exchange risk is adequately covered in the difference between
IDA's terms and the rate at which the Government will lend to PFIs (a margin currently more than 18
percent). Over time, the on-lending rate will move toward market rates. PFIs will bear the full credit risk.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. KAFC will carry out financial
accounting and will maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS). KAFC will be responsible for the preparation
of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and financial reports. Accounts will be audited annually according
to IAS by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and to the Government. Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year (calendar year of the Kyrgyz
Government). These functions will be transferred to a new implementing agency if and when other PFIs
join the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation will be the
-12-



primary responsibility of KAFC and the SFCI. SFCI will design and implement a simple monitoring and
reporting system to gather information on the activities of KAFC, the institutional development component
and the borrowers supported by the project. The monitoring results will be consolidated into half-yearly
reports and submitted for Bank review. The M&E system will be guided by the logical framework
presented in Annex 1, and specific output and impact indicators to be monitored will be agreed upon. The
system will also evaluate progress in implementing the annual work programs to be prepared by KAFC.
The M&E system will be key in providing the lessons of experience needed for changes to the design for the
second half of the project. A Mid-Term Review for the project will be held by December 31, 2001 or when
disbursements have reached 50 percent of the credit line, whichever is first An Implementation
Completion Report will be prepared, within, six months after the final disbursement of the credit (estimated
June 2004). As above, these functions will be undertaken by the new implementing agency if and when
other PFIs join the project.
The SFCOP component will be closely monitored to assess the results of group lending, the
strengths and weaknesses of groups, their support mechanisms, and the sustainability of groups. A
follow-up social assessment will be undertaken prior to the Mid-Term Review, using the baseline data
established during project preparation. This will assess the experience of project initiatives, including
public information and awareness-raising activities, and determine which elements or approaches should be
modified to increase project effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Project timing. The acceleration of RFP II, originally foreseen for FY2002, was carefully
considered in light of problems associated with the regional financial sector crisis. It was decided that the
need and justification for a follow-up project which emphasizes the institutional strengthening of KAFC is
particularly strong. The need to strengthen the institutional and human capacity to deal a difficult financial
environment and to continue to provide necessary support to meet the real sector's needs and promote
further growth is urgent if the substantial gains achieved under RFP I are to be sustained.
(b) General or directed credit. A general credit line to be channeled through commercial banks
was considered as an alternative and rejected. The credit line through KAFC is broadly directed at the
rural sector because existing market failures make rural lending by commercial banks highly problematic at
this time. These failures include lack of information about rural clients and rural lending opportunities, the
perceived riskiness of agricultural loans, and the high transactions costs of lending to large numbers of
small and geographically scattered borrowers. KAFC will fill the void in lending to the rural sector until
there failures are better addressed and commercial banks are better able to expand their lending to a rural
clientele. However, while the credit is directed to rural activities, those activities are broadly defined to
include a well diversified portfolio of rural economic activities. In parallel, technical assistance support
for small farmers and small-scale rural entrepreneurs will be provided to address some of the current
constraints that prevent commercial banks from lending to rural clients and from mobilizing savings in
rural areas.
(c) Financial Intermediation through KAFC or commercial banks. As an alternative to the
current project design, on-lending through commercial banks was considered. At present, however, most
banks are in an unstable condition, exacerbated by the regional financial crisis. None of these banks have
any knowledge of the agricultural sector, particularly sector specific risks or agricultural collateral
markets, nor any of the skills, technology or extensive rural network for such lending. - It is not considered
-13-



prudent, therefore, to make investments in these areas until banks have regained their financial soundness.
It was agreed that participation of commercial banks will be one of the main topics of discussion during the
Mid-Term Review. Efforts will be made to involve as many eligible commercial banks as possible in RFP
II. Kyrgyz banks need to diversify their lending activities to include rural clients. The project will help
overcome the "misperception" of undue risk of lending to rural clients, help diversify the portfolios of
commercial banks, and strengthen their corporate governance and management and loan appraisal skills in
agriculture.
KAFC, meanwhile, has established a sound reputation in the agricultural community and
demonstrated that lending to agriculture can be profitable while maintaining a sound fnancial position.
Therefore, it was decided to maintain KAFC as the main fnancial intermediary while expanding the scope
and magnitude of the first project.
(d) A Credit-led Poverty Alleviation program or a Public Sector Support Program. The
alternative of developing a rural poverty project focused on public works, community development, and
rehabilitation of rural community infrastructure was considered and rejected for the time being. In RFP I
the Government chose to focus on a credit-led approach and launched a special private credit window - the
Small Farmers Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP) in KAFC to provide small loans to groups. Such an
approach has proven elsewhere to be an effective means of reducing poverty among a large segment of
mostly poor rural inhabitants who are able to use loans productively. Such small loans help to build the
experience, skills and discipline required for small borrowers to participate eventually in more formal credit
markets. The experience to date with SFCOP, although somewhat mixed, has demonstrated that
well-targeted credit on commercial terms for groups of small borrowers does have an important role in
reducing poverty by providing a kick-start to well-conceived business concepts and in building a core group
of experienced and disciplined borrowers. The proposed project will build on the efforts under RFP I and
will include a more concerted effort in group formation, business advise and support, and group lending as
a means to assist this important segment of the rural poor.
The focus on a credit-led approach in the current project does not, however, preclude other
interventions aimed at the rural poor. Investments that focus on community works and rural infrastructure
complement the initiatives supported by the proposed project and are being considered in the ongoing
country dialogue for inclusion in the future lending program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Agriculture                       Sheep Development Project         S           U **
Agriculture                       Agricultural Support Services     S             S
Project
Environment                      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  S             S
Agriculture                       Rural Finance                     S             S
Agriculture                       Agriculture Privatization and     S            S
Enterprise Adjustment Credit
(completed)
-14-



Finance                            Private Enterprise Support        U             U
Project (PESP)*
Agriculture                        Flood Emergency                   S             S
Finance                            Financial Sector Adjustment       S             S
Credit (completed)
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank             ADB's Credit Union Project
ACDI/VOCA                          AFC Project: Osh Farm Credit
Association
Swiss Development Fund             Caritas project/Helvetas project
Mercy Corps                        Production, machinery, food
processing loans
Meerim Foundation                  5 groups of low income women
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
* Restructured in late 1998
$* Project objectives affected by changed sectoral conditions and world markets. A Mid-Term Review is
scheduled for July 1999.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The experience of IDA and other donors in credit operations, including RFP I and PESP in the Kyrgyz
Republic, demonstrates the following lessons:
*   Macro-economic stabilization, market liberalization and privatization are all pre-requisites for
effective financial interventions. These basic conditions are satisfied in the Kyrgyz Republic.
*   Rural finance projects often face difficulties because: (a) profitable opportunities for lending are
lacking; (b) banks are unaccustomed to rural lending and do not know the clientele; and (c)
borrowers do not know how to prepare business plans which allow them to accurately assess the
profitability of borrowing and to interface productively with banks. The project will address these
issues by supporting an institution that has knowledge of the agricultural and rural sectors and has
a cost structure that allows it to have broad geographic reach (one-room rural branches, mobile
offices). In addition, the project will provide business development support services to farmers and
small business owners aimed at making the changes required to create profitable lending
opportunities.
*   The loan portfolio should be diversified in terms of size, types of economic activities, clients and
geographical areas. RFP II will support on-farm as well as off-farm activities in rural areas.
*   There should be multiple financial institutions involved in a credit line project to increase
competition among banks and to reduce the cost of borrowing to ultimate borrowers. Although in
the first half of the project only KAFC is expected to participate, other interested and eligible
commercial banks will be encouraged to participate in the second half of RFP II.
* The relatively high transaction cost of making small-size loans in rural lending could be
compensated by low-cost lending technology such as group lending, mobile banks, decentralized
-15-



loan processing at local branches.
*   Improvement of the collateral system based on legal ownership of property is a prerequisite to a
successful credit operation. The recent decision to allow private ownership of land in the Kyrgyz
Republic will enhance development of the collateral system.
*   Group lending can be sustainable if members of the groups share common visions and goals, i.e.
credit groups should be meaningful borrowers and community institutions, rather than empty
structures that meet the needs of an influential member of the community, and achieving
sustainable group lending requires substantial technical assistance and training at community
levels. Under RFP II, group development will be supported through financial and technical
assistance both for lenders as well as borrowers.
*   Credit line operations must be accompanied by substantial technical assistance for potential
borrowers for generating bankable projects, preparation of business plans. Under RFP II, group
development will be supported through financial and technical assistance both for lenders as well
as borrowers.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's strong commitment has been demonstrated by a series of actions:
*   Following the November 1998 request by the President of the Kyrgyz Republic for a Second Rural
Finance Project, the GOK issued several resolutions to facilitate project preparation.
*   The GOK has reaffirmed its commitment to continue reforms in the agricultural sector and
credit-led sector reform. It was agreed to: (a) improve the MIS system of KAFC; (b) provide
priority technical assistance to realize the MIS improvement; (c) provide a permanent home for
KAFC as a part of the overall institutional restructuring and reorganization in order to make
KAFC more effective; (d) provide support for creating mobile credit officers; and (e) include the
annual audit costs in the project financing.
*   The GOK has agreed to provide counterpart funding for RFP II in cash and in kind, and has
already pledged a headquarters building for KAFC.
*   The Govermnent has agreed to all the principal terms and conditions of the IDA credit and
subsidiary loan to KAFC and agreed to on-lend to KAFC in local currency.
*   The Government has established a committee comprised of officials from all key ministries and
departnents, which has coordinated the preparation of RFP II, carried out all locally required
actions and obtained the necessary endorsements in order to present REP II to the Board of
Directors of IDA on schedule.
*   The Government has carried out and continues to engage in active media campaigning to
disseminate information about RFP II.
*   The GOK took decisive action to restructure the Private Enterprise Support Project so as to
strengthen the banking sector and private sector development; the restructured project became
effective in December 1998.
-16-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Since its operations commenced in the Kyrgyz Republic in 1992, IDA has supported the
Government in the design, analysis, and realization of its development strategies through specific lending
and non-lending operations. Among non-lending activities, IDA has completed an Agricultural Sector
Review (FY95) and a follow-up Agriculture Policy Review and Strategy for Rural Growth and Poverty
Alleviation (FY98). This latter report examined the current state of Kyrgyz agriculture and the status of
agricultural policy reform programs during the transition from a centrally planned economy to a market
economy. It outlines a strategy for accelerating rural development by deepening policy reforms, increasing
public investment, promoting institutional development, and strengthening the information base. The report
served as the centerpiece for the December 1997 National Agricultural Conference. On the lending front,
the successfully completed Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (FY95) supported
the policy underpinning for sector reform. The CAS clearly identifies support to the agricultural sector as
critical for economic growth. The project directly complements on-going IDA support for agricultural
revitalization through the Sheep Development Project, the ASSP, the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, and
the Flood Emergency Project, all of which will improve the productivity, profitability, and bankability of
private farming and related rural businesses.
IDA has drawn upon its extensive experience in poverty alleviation and natural resources
management from many other countries, most recently from Latvia, Albania, and Bosnia. Specifically,
lessons learned from these operations confirm that a well targeted poverty alleviation intervention through a
rural finance project which is based on market principles can be effective and should be supported. IDA
will continue to collaborate with other donors in designing rural development strategies and institutional
capacities that are compatible with a market economy.
IDA also draws on its own experience and the experience of the World Bank and other bilateral
and multilateral agencies dealing with group lending and directed credit support in many countries. Within
the Kyrgyz Republic, there is also considerable experience in group credit which is being brought to bear
on this project after careful analysis of the difference between commercial lending and informal
non-commercial lending, which is generally unsustainable. Through the cross-fertilization of knowledge
and experience, IDA was able to ensure that the proposed RFP II is consistent with the fmdings of the
aforementioned economic and policy work and the experience and lessons learned from similar projects
elsewhere in the ECA Region.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
Methodology. Because of the demand driven nature of a credit line operation, it is not possible to
pre-determine sub-projects which will be financed. Therefore, no attempt has been made to estimate
financial and economic rates of return of the overall project. However, according to the lending guidelines
for participating financial institutions, each sub-loan approved will be required to have rates of return
above on-lending rates of interest and demonstrate the repayment capacity of the borrower.
Economic and financial analyses have been carried out on randomly selected farms and enterprises
-17-



typical in the Kyrgyz Republic from KAFC's actual and potential clients. Each model compares "with
and without project" situations and illustrates possible changes induced by the project on costs and
productivity. The sample analysis demonstrates that there is a wide range of viable business activities in
rural areas, and that they are generally remain robust in face of adverse changes in key parameters.
Detailed results of this analysis are in the project file. A similar quantitative analysis will be used to
provide practical hands-on training for loan officers of KAFC.
In credit operations, loan officers exclusively rely on financial rates of return, and have very little
understanding of economic rates of return or opportunity cost of capital. However, in the Kyrgyz
Republic, the Government has been pursing reform-oriented policies which have largely eliminated
distortions in the economy. The price and trade regimes are virtually control-free, and agricultural
subsidies are minimal. Therefore, it is expected that financial rates of returns (FRRs) will deviate very
little from economic rates of returns (ERRs).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
The overall financial rate of return and net present value (NPV) for the project have also not been
estimated. During sub-loan appraisal, loan officers will carry out a cash-flow analysis to ensure that the
FRR of each sub-loan is above the opportunity cost of capital. While it is difficult to estimate the "real
opportunity cost of capital" in an imperfect capital market, KAFC will make sure that its lending rates will
be substantially positive in real terms to cover all costs, including provisions for bad loans and reasonable
returns on equity.
Financial analysis of sub-projects: Crop and livestock budgets have been prepared to determine
potential yields and net income from various activities. The financial analysis includes: (a) gross and net
returns per hectare and per head for each of the crops and for livestock; (b) the individual financial NPV's
for the farm models and rural enterprises which indicate the potential viability and attractiveness of
farming and small scale rural business; (c) the repayment capacity of each sub-project. A standard project
analysis model, specifically suited for the Kyrgyz credit market, is being developed and will include a
sensitivity analysis. Loan officers will continue to receive training in loan appraisal and monitoring
fmancial prerformance of sub-loans.
Financial analysis of PFIs: Each PFI will be subject to a due-diligence evaluation before it will
qualify to participate in the project. Although KAFC is not a bank, the NBK has carried out a
comprehensive evaluation of the institution and has issued an official letter stating that KAFC is in full
compliance with prudential regulations. KAFC meets the criteria for eligibility. Future selection of
commercial banks for participation in the project will be based on: (a) full compliance with prudential
regulations, including capital adequacy; (b) the competence and independence of the bank's management
and appropriate corporate governance structure; (c) the adequacy of its lending polices; (d) the reliability
of its reporting; (e) its financial position, including the health of its portfolio; and (f) compliance with audit
requirements. PFIs' eligibility will have to be maintained throughout project implementation. It is
expected that some new PFIs may gain eligibility and some may lose it over the course of the project.
Each PFI will be required to undergo an annual audit, which will include a review of the portfolio, by an
international auditing firm. Details of the eligibility criteria for PFIs have been established and are
included in Annex 2. At present, KAFC fully satisfies the eligibility criteria and will be required to
maintain the compliance in order to retain its status as an eligible PFI.
-18-



Fiscal Impact:
Overall, the project is expected to have a positive net fiscal impact as income growth will yield
higher tax revenues. The GOK will provide its counterpart funding support to the project in-kind in the
form of a headquarters building. The market value of the building is estimated to be US$1.5 million, which
will be subscribed as Governrnent's equity contribution to KAFC. In addition, the GOK will utilize about
US$1 million equivalent from the IDA Credit proceeds for the technical assistance component, and 15
percent of each sub-loan (aggregate of US$2.1 million) withdrawn from the Credit will be subscribed as the
Government's share in KAFC. The Government's total contribution over the project life is estimated to be
US$4.6 million (US$1.5 million in kind and US$3.1 million from the Credit proceeds).
The Government will receive the IDA Credit at standard terms and conditions and will on-lend to
participating financial institutions at a rate no less than official inflation rates projected and confirmed by
the NBK. The current spread of around 18 percent gives the Government approximately US$6 million
during the five years of project implementation. These resources will be used to provide foreign exchange
risk coverage and to cover administrative costs, TA costs, and capitalization of KAFC by the Government.
The initial on-lending rate to KAFC, based on the projected inflation rate, includes an implicit
subsidy. This rate will be progressively adjusted to a market rate. When the banking sector stabilizes
enough to determine a relevant market rate, this rate will become applicable for comparable operations in
the country. Capital subscription by the GOK in KAFC from the Credit proceeds also represents an
implicit subsidy to KAFC, which is justifiable since many of KAFC's activities are aimed at the rural poor
and it is still in a development stage requiring substantial institutional and human capacity building. In
addition, the Government's special support to develop group lending is justifiable because group lending
and social collateral concepts are still relatively new in the country and substantial institutional capacity
development is needed to make group lending sustainable.
On the other hand, by supporting viable economic activities, there will be an increase in tax
revenues and a reduction in the rural population's dependence on public support through the welfare
system. The GOK has reduced agricultural subsidies from the budget and eliminated costly and
unsustainable publicly administered credit to the sector. These reforms have led to a substantial reduction
in budgetary allocations for agricultural subsidies. Although it is difficult to quantify the overall impact on
the treasury, it is expected that the net fiscal impact of the project will be positive for the treasury.
3. Technical:
KAFC staff will receive training in technical subjects such as appraisal and supervision of
sub-projects, accounting procedures, management of cash flows, internal control, etc. On the client level,
Rural Advisory and Development Centers (established under the ASSP) will build a network of technical
specialists to support adoption of appropriate technologies, prepare simple business plans, maintain simple
revenue/cost accounting, etc., by borrowers.
-19-



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: During the first half of implementation, the credit line will be executed exclusively
by KAFC. At Mid-Term, the possible participation by commercial banks will be considered. At that time,
the project executing modalities will have to be revised. KAFC has been implementing the first Rural
Finance Project since mid-1997. Implementation results to date are satisfactory. For project management,
at least three additional staff will be hired for environment, procurement, and disbursement and M&E. For
credit operations, KAFC's staff will increase according to increases in the volume of lending and number of
clients. Staff training will be conducted regularly. KAFC has been audited by an international audit firm
acceptable to IDA and has been assessed to have an adequate fnancial management and control system.
Under RFP II, the MIS system of KAFC will be upgraded, and its headquarters and branches will be
on-line, allowing for prompt data processing and timely management decisions. KAFC has received
substantial technical assistance from the Swiss and TACIS, and additional TA is being planned for KAFC
by TACIS as well as under the RFP II.
The institutional development component will be executed by KAFC under the supervision of the
SCFI. A Japanese PHRD grant will provide specific support to SCFI to identify high-priority TA, prepare
terms of reference, and assist in the preparation of a TA implementation plan with performance indicators
to monitor and evaluate the impact of the component. SCFI will also receive training in project
management supported by the grant.
b. Project management: Management of the project will be the responsibility of KAFC. Until commercial
banks join the project, KAFC will continue to perform the dual function of a PFI and a PMU. KAFC has
now developed the experience to manage RFP II; it will designate three full time staff for project
management, and they will receive extensive training in such topics as project management, accounting,
procurement, disbursement, financial management, and environmental compliance. KAFC management
and key staff are familiar with IDA requirements and will continue to receive reinforcement in project
management.
Financial Management:
The current financial management practices for the project comply with the relevant Bank
requirements (OP/BP 10.02). The initial project implementation agency, KAFC, is being audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Internal controls and procedures are adequate to safeguard
the assets of the agency. The financial information systems are capable of reporting the financial condition
and performance of the agency in accordance with local requirements and of reporting project transactions
and performance in accordance with World Bank requirements. Disbursements will initially be made using
the procedures laid down for the RFP I. During the first two quarters following loan effectiveness, KAFC,
in conjunction with IDA, will develop reporting tables appropriate to both the first and second projects and
submit these to the IDA's Loan Department in parallel with the existing reports. It is anticipated that
during the second half of project implementation, KAFC could switch to the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) disbursement procedures. A more detailed review of financial management issues is
given in Annex 11.
-20-



5. Social:
A rapid social assessment was carried out during preparation that confirmed the value of forming
groups to access credit, with or without collateral, but found existing application procedures to be far too
complicated and expensive to reach a broad rural population. The assessment identified a number of issues
related to group credit that were explored subsequently to provide inputs into project design. Some of the
most important issues were lack of experience with credit, perceived constraints to obtaining credit and
inexperience in forming credit groups.
Subsequently, a more comprehensive Social Assessment was undertaken by Kyrgyz social
scientists, with the active support of KAFC staff. The SA was designed to investigate the issues described
above, to learn more about the experience of group lending through Agriculture Consumer Cooperatives
(ACCs), to ascertain feasible selection criteria, and to establish a baseline for social monitoring and impact
evaluation. The SA confirmed that a social collateral (group guarantee) system is a feasible way to reach
small farmers and entrepreneurs in the Kyrgyz Republic. There is significant credit demand and a large
number of people that is willing to join credit groups. The SA concluded that SFCOP has been remarkably
successful in starting its group lending program (albeit not as it was originally intended) given its very
limited resources and institutional capacity; however, the program needs to be revised in order to reach a
broad spectrum of possible borrowers efficiently and effectively. A number of measures were identified to:
(a) make credit information available in the rural areas; (b) organize and strengthen groups to ensure that
they meet the needs of members and ensure repayment obligations; (c) provide training and support to
group members and SFCOP staff; and (d) help SFCOP improve its processing and evaluation procedures.
Stakeholder workshops were held after the completion of the SA to discuss findings and implications and to
obtain the views of a wide range of stakeholders regarding conclusions and project concepts.
Findings of the SA were used to establish selection criteria for group borrowing, to develop a
training and support program for credit groups, and to develop a social monitoring program. Implications
of the SA will be developed further during the early phases of project implementation to learn from ongoing
experience to fine tune group formation and training approaches and to strengthen the interface between
SFCOP and its clients. A follow-up SA will be undertaken during the Mid-Term Review to address the
impact and targeting questions and to deal with new issues that emerge during implementation.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category F A El C
1XB 1FI
The project is classified as Category Fl, because it involves on-lending of IDA funds
through a financial intermediary (FI).
During RFP II preparation, international and local consultants: (a) reviewed the
existing Kyrgyz environmental regulations; (b) identified the subset of the regulations that are
relevant for RFP II and KAFC; (c) categorized KAFC's typical lending into nine groups; (d)
listed applicable Kyrgyz environmental requirements for each group, identified potential
environmental impacts, and recommended mitigating activities; and (e) prepared an operational
checklist for KAFC loan officers so that KAFC officers can verify that all necessary permits,
license, etc., are included in the loan application. An application will not be processed until all
the necessary requirements have been fulfilled. Furthermnore, KAFC has agreed to employ an
enviromnental officer who will participate in the loan appraisal process and make certain that
loan officers are fully aware of the requirements. In addition, the KAFC environmental officer
will be trained on the IDA/Bank environmental guidelines, including classification of A, B, and
C, so that appropriate actions can be taken before and after sub-loan approval including
-21-



submission to the IDA for prior-review.
Based on the environmental guidelines and checklist, KAFC staff will receive training
on applying environmental standards in their appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. This
will assure that loan proceeds are used in a manner consistent with Kyrgyz environmental laws
and regulations and Bank policy. Loan officers will verify that sub-projects are in compliance
with applicable environmental regulations, and a summary of environmental issues will be
included in the semi-annual progress report to IDA. Loans for agro-chemicals will only be
provided to farmers who have received adequate training in their use. For pesticides, an
authorized list of products approved for financing has been developed. Although not expected,
any sub-projects with major environmental issues (category A) will be subject to prior review
by IDA, in accordance with OP 4.01. Appropriate training of loan officers will be carried out
during a project launch workshop. The environmental guidelines will be provided to
commercial banks when/if they join the project, and their staff will also receive training on
environmental screening of sub-loans.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary Stakeholders: There are three sets of direct beneficiaries of the project: rural borrowers,
consisting of individuals and credit groups, and the staff of KAFC.
Farmers and rural entrepreneurs who have viable business plans and collateral may apply for loans
from KAFC directly. Access to KAFC varies from one oblast to another. The project will increase
overall access by establishing offices in rayons that currently do not have offices and by reducing
transaction costs by simplifying procedures, providing more direct assistance in the field (e.g. loan
application, preparation of simple business plans, etc.) and recovering the cost of making loan
disbursements and repayments.
Smallfarmers and entrepreneurs theoretically can access KAFC credit by forming Agricultural
Consumer Cooperatives (ACCs). In practice, coverage is limited by the existing difficulties in creating
groups, documenting resources, providing physical collateral, and so on. Consequently, many institutional
constraints limit participation of such potential borrowers in the project, in addition to their other financial
and technical constraints. Many prospective and current borrowers have expressed their dissatisfaction
with current arrangements, and this was confirmed by the SA. The project has taken a number of
important steps to promote the participation of small farmers and entrepreneurs. In addition to the
measures described above, the project will provide the following provisions to encourage the participation
of potential small-scale borrowers: provide support to create and strengthen credit groups that can obtain
loans through social collateral; simplify procedures, documentation and loan requirements to reduce
transaction costs; improve access to SFCOP by delivering services at the village level; assist ACCs and S
elf-Help Groups (SHGs) to form confederations of credit groups and develop their capacity to serve the
interests of member groups directly; and conduct periodic field assessments of borrower satisfaction to
enable even remote borrowers to have a voice in the operation of KAFC.
KAFC nanagement and staff are also primary stakeholders because they will benefit from the capacity
building elements of the project. During project preparation, KAFC staff were consulted individually and
in groups to assess their needs, learn from their experience, solicit their ideas and obtain their feedback on
various project design issues. During implementation, all KAFC staff will be encouraged to contribute to
-22-



various capacity building efforts by identifying their constraints and opportunities and developing
appropriate training activities to meet their needs. They will also benefit both directly and indirectly from
the capacity building components, which will result in increased work effectiveness and satisfaction, as
well as increased support and loyalty of clients, who benefit from greatly improved service. If other
financial institutions join the project, they will participate in similar ways.
Secondary Stakeholders: Government officials at the national and oblast levels participated in designing
the project by articulating the needs and special characteristics of their constituents and offering advice
regarding lessons learned from KAFC experience to date. They will continue to have roles in project
oversight committees throughout implementation. Private and public sector enterprises and financial
experts have been consulted to assess the needs of potential clients for business advice and planning as well
as credit. Their participation in the project will continue to be based on market demand.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders: The project has a wide range of other stakeholders including the multilateral and
bilateral agencies engaged in rural credit operations, either directly or through NGOs and other institutions
of civil society. Their advice and collaboration have been sought during project preparation to learn from
experience and to set project parameters in such aspects as credit limits, interest rates, collateral
requirements, group creation and support mechanisms and others. These stakeholders consist of
collaborators and supporters of KAFC as well as field-level competitors. IDA has encouraged the
Government to take an active role in coordinating the efforts of such stakeholders both to reduce the
confusion of rural residents and to enforce general principles that aim to ensure the sustainability of
investments in rural finance institutions and protect the interests of rural borrowers. It is expected that
other new projects and programs designed to promote rural development will emerge over time and they,
too, will be brought into mechanisms designed to promote cooperation and mutual learning.
During appraisal, a workshop was held in Bishkek that brought together a wide range of stakeholders to
discuss the fndings and implications of the SA. The workshop achieved common understandings of the
needs of different groups and their roles in project design and implementation. This mechanism not only
obtained stakeholder views and promoted ownership but also served as an initial vehicle for disseminating
information to the media, local organizations and local authorities.
-23-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project is closely linked to the sustainability of KAFC, its main executing
agency. Although the KAFC is Government owned, it functions on a commercial basis with an
independent accounting and internal control system audited by an internationally accredited auditing
company. KAFC maintains a quality portfolio through prudent lending operations, reducing overall
operating costs while enhancing its revenue earning capacity through active marketing efforts. Interest
rates charged by KAFC will cover all costs and risks of lending. The cost of funds to KAFC will start at
no less than the rate of inflation and will be adjusted every six months toward market rates. Even at the
rate of inflation the difference between the cost of IDA funds and the lending rate to KAFC is more than
adequate to cover the Government's administrative costs, a premium for bearing the foreign exchange risk,
and contribution to TA and KAFC capitalization. In order to maintain sound portfolio quality, the
proposed project will substantially improve KAFC's institutional capacity; KAFC staff will be trained in
risk assessment, asset and liability management, financial control, internal control and auditing, etc. One of
the project components is designed to strengthen KAFC's capacity which includes installation of
commercial bank-compatible MIS system for quality loan data collection, tracking and for timely
management decision making.
At the sub-project level, financial analysis will confirm the sustainability of each sub-project.
Support will also be provided at client level for appropriate and efficient use of inputs, marketing, etc., to
enhance the productivity and profitability of each sub-loan. For group lending, special efforts are being
made to understand cultural, social and economic barriers and incentives, so that specific technical
assistance at the grass-root level can be provided to form groups that share common objectives and goals
and be will sustainable. Specific monitoring indicators are being developed to measure the effectiveness of
group formation and its sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    i X kRating         ;isk    Minimizaton Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Inadequate financial intermediation       S        Technical assistance and training for
capacity in PFIs                                   KAFC to build capacity. This
assistance and training to be extended to
other PFIs as and when they join the
project
Government intervention in credit         S        Continuous Policy dialogue, random
decisions                                          review of credit decisions
New Government schemes will emerge       M          Continuous Policy dialogue, IMF
to subsidize agriculture or rural                  program
businesses
Outreach to groups will remain limited    S        Targeted support, animation and public
awareness campaign, training to
improve absorption capacity,
sustainability of groups
-24-



Cultural and Social Conditions in rural    S         Training and public awareness
areas make group formation difficult                campaigns that highlight successful
credit groups help to demonstrate
benefits of group formation
Adverse exogenous event negatively         S         Diversified portfolio in terms of
affects the sector profits (e.g. drought,            geographic, types of clients and
flood, bad weather, etc.) reducing                   investments across sub-sectors plus
clients' ability to repay                            promotion of off-farm rural economic
activities
No demand and willingness to pay for       S         Training and technical assistance
business support services                            provided to assure relevance and quality
of business services. Fees to be phased
in over time as the services prove their
worth
From Components to Outputs
Credit Line fails to disburse due to: (a)  S         (a) Training for PFI staff, design of
insufficient capacity in PFI's; and, (b)             credit line that avoids bureaucracy and
Government decisions to reintroduce                  assures full autonomy in loan appraisal;
subsidized credit schemes                           (b) continued policy dialogue with
Government, IMF program
High loan default rates                    S         TA and training for improved loan
appraisal and risk assessment included
Law enacted to ensure PFIs' ability to
seize collateral, bankruptcy law enacted
Strict supervision and regulations by the
National Bank
Moral hazard problem of group lending      H         Clear eligibility criteria for group
and related collateral issues under the             lending, and succinct loan agreement,
Special Credit Line for Group Lending                training of loan officers and small-scale
potential borrowers; and community
level training and stake-holders
meetings to enhance group cohesion and
incentives
KAFC staff and Technical Assistance        S         Competitive hiring practices and
not capable of improving KAFC                        intensive training for new KAFC staff
capacity or fostering adequate                       both for commercial and group lending
formation of credit groups                           activities, and intensive supervision of
consultant selection process and
implementation of TA.
-25-



Overall Risk Rating                       S        Regular supervision, low prior-review
threshold for sub-loans, institutional
capacity building, focused support at
client level
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between KAFC and MOF
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Negotiations Conditions:
All negotiation conditions have been satisfied:
* GOK has provided its financing commitment for RFP II financing for priority TA for a total of
US$1 million equivalent
*   GOK has submitted to IDA its agreement on: (a) the on-lending terms to KAFC including the
GOK's capital contribution of 15 percent of each withdrawal and periodic adjustment of the
on-lending rate toward the market rate; and (b) GOK assuming the foreign exchange risks of the
IDA credit
*   GOK has submitted a detailed project implementation plan (PIP) with a clearly defined
implementation schedule for each project component, including TA
*   GOK has prepared specific performance indicators to be included in the semi-annual progress
reports to be submitted to IDA
Board Conditions: None
Disbursement Conditions for the Credit Line:
* Completion of KAFC's operational manual acceptable to IDA
*   Completion of the first round of new training programs for lending staff
*   Completion of technical evaluation of the IT/MIS system and preparation of a timetable,
acceptable to IDA, that indicates the timing of MIS installation, staff training, and full transfer of
the current accounting information into the new system
Audits and Accounts:
*   Standard auditing covenants will apply
*   The Borrower will open and properly maintain a Special Account
-26-



Project Management:
*   The Borrower shall maintain project management capacity in KAFC with adequate funding and
staffing
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting:
*   Standard reporting covenants will apply
* To ensure adequate planning of project activities, KAFC will no later than January 30 of each year
prepare and furnish to IDA for review and approval an annual work program that includes targets
for implementation of each component, an assessment of technical assistance requirements and
training to be undertaken during the reporting period
*   An in-depth Mid-Term Review will be undertaken by December 2001 or when the disbursement of
the credit line reaches 50 percent, whichever is earlier
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
l 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A set of conditions of disbursement of the Credit lines have been discussed and agreed with the GOK.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Hoonae Kim                               Kevin M. Cleaver                   Kiyoshi Kodera
Team Leader                              Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
-27-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance II
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Attain sustained growth    1. Increased in agricultural   1. Sales statistics on land,    Agriculture will remain a
with priority in agriculture    GDP and its contribution to   commodities, and inputs,  priority in terms of its total
and the revitalization of  the overall economy        verified during annual review  contribution to GDP and
agro-industry                                         of IBRD/IDA lending and    employment
non-lending activities and
CPPR exercise
2. Develop private sector  2. Improvement in production 2. Farm production efficiency Government will remain
activities; and            efficiency, productivity  (cost structure and yields)    committed to continue policy
reforms
3. Reduce poverty          3. Growth in rural income    3. Income statistics, rural
and increases in employment  employment statistics
opportunities
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To establish a sustainable  1. Sustainable fmancial  1. Monitoring and progress   Central and local govermnents
rural finance system       position of financial      reporting by participating  are committed to supporting
intermediaries with sound    financial institutions including comprehensive rural
portfolio and high repayment performance records of   development and banking
rates; increased access for    participating rural bank  sector reforms
rural people to commercial   branches
banking, credit unions, etc., in
rural areas; increased lending 2. Estimation of Subsidy
(in volume and number) to    Dependence Index (SDI) to
small-scale borrowers; and    monitor reduction of implicit
participation of commercial  subsidies
banks in agricultural lending
2. To reduce poverty       2. Increased income levels and 2. PMU semi-annual progress Rural people are committed to
reduction in proportion of    reports, audit reports, and    improving their conditions;
people living in poverty   ex-post random sampling    and adequate management
analysis of sub-loans made    capacity in agricultural
enterprises exists or can be
developed
3. Statistics on rural income,  The incentive structure
employment; periodic survey - (prices, markets) is conducive
to be agreed with the GOK    to innovation and new
investment by private
entrepreneurs
-28-



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Financially sustainable  1. A number of commercial  Implementation as monitored  No major shift in
financial institutions in rural  banks involved in lending to  by PFIs             goverrnent's agricultural
areas including commercial   agricultural and rural sectors                        policies particularly on
banks with demonstrated                                                            subsidized credit for
increased lending in rural                                                         agriculture
areas
exogenous shocks to sector
profits (such as adverse
weather) are manageable
2. Availability of         2. Sound portfolio with     Implementation as monitored  Adequate financial
financial/banking services to  repayment ratio above 85% at by PMU                 intermediation capacity exists
rural people in terms of:  positive real interest rates -                          in PFIs
lending to small-scale clients; this is an increase from the
and increased awareness of   75% required in the first
rural people about commercial project. In reality, the
opportunities              repayment rate is likely to be
higher
3. Improved portfolio quality  3. Sound portfolio with  Successful utilization of credit No Government intervention
of KAFC                    independent audit and       line, and evaluation of     in lending decisions made by
portfolio review           savings accounts and loan   KAFC
portfolio of participating rural
A large number of borrowers  fnance institutions
(representing at least 25% of
registered private farmers)
with a diversified loan
portfolio in terms of loan sizes
and types
4. Provision of support for    4. Formation of groups and   A number of groups being  Cultural and social behavior
group formation and        lending to groups based on    formed and sustained -    patterns conducive to group
introduction of social     social collateral           measured by repeated        formation, trust and
collateral                                             borrowing by the same group  sustainability.
Progress report by KAFC on a Outreach to foster group
range of accepted collateral   formation is effective
5. Availability of quality  5. Registered NGOs and     Progress report by PMU      Adequate demand for support
business support services in   consulting groups providing                         services and ability to pay for
rural areas                support services to private                            the services
entrepreneurs
-29-



Projeot Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. 1. Credit lines through  US$16.1 million equivalent,  Quarterly disbursement  PFIs have capacity to handle
KAFC and through           (IDA US$11 million)        reports for each component   anticipated credit demand and
commercial banks (in future)                                                     government maintains
for private farmers and                               Semi-annual progress report  commitment not to
entrepreneurs                                                                   reintroduce subsidized credit
Audit reports             to the agricultural sector
Repayment performance of
commercial credit line
improves
1.2. Special Credit line for   US$4.3 million (IDA $3                           Repayment performance of
Small-Farmers Credit      million)                                               group loans not affected by
Outreach Program                                                                 moral hazard problems in
group lending
2.1. TA for KAFC capacity   US$2.0 million (IDA US$0.5                           Ability to recruit competent
building (and in future, for   million)                                          staff in KAFC and quality
commercial banks)                                                                consulting support
2.2. TA for introducing social US$0.3 million (IDA US$0.3                        Ability to recruit competent
collateral system and     million)                                              local staff and quality
formation of groups for                                                          consulting support
sustainable borrowing
2.3. TA for establishing rural US$0.2 million (IDA US$0.2                        Ability to recruit competent
SME business development   million)                                             local staff and quality
support services                                                                 consulting support
-30-



Annex 2: Project Description
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance II
The Project Objectives. The Government has reiterated that the main objectives to be achieved
under RFP II are: (a) to further develop a sustainable rural financial system that will serve a broad range of
the rural population including small-scale rural entrepreneurs and farmers; and (b) to reduce poverty in
rural areas by providing opportunities to access credit to those who do not have adequate physical
collateral but have proposals for viable economic activities.
In order to achieve these objectives, the project will focus on strengthening KAFC's capacity for
rural lending through training and technical assistance (TA), and stimulating the flow of commercial credit
to rural areas. Specific TA will also be provided to develop local capacity in group formation. RFP II will
be implemented over a five-year period and will build on the lessons learned from the first project by
expanding and deepening KAFC's activities to date, and expanding the scope of the institutional
development component. These changes will help increase the amount of financing for the rural population
and assist the government in its effort to support the rural poor.
The Project will have two main components.
tts~~~i
A. CREDIT LIN                                     20.40     89.0    14.00      69.0
COMPONENT
A. I Commercial Credit Line  AC - Agricultural    16.10  70.3    11.00      73.3
Credit
A.2 Special Credit Line    AC - Agricultural    4.30      18.8    3.00      20.0
(SFCOP)                       Credit
B. INSTITUTIONAL                                   2.50     11.0    1.00       40.0
DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT
B. 1 Strengthening of KAFC   FS - Financial     2.00      8.7     0.50       3.3
capacity in loan appraisal, risk    Sector
management, etc.              Development
B.2 Other TA                                    0.50      2.0     0.50       100
--Support for group formation  SY - Other Social  0.30    1.3     0.30       2.0
and group lending based on    Sector
social collateral
--Support for small-scale  IL - Small Scale     0.20      0.9     0.20       1.3
rural business development    Enterprises                          ___
Total Project Costs                          22.90    100.0   15.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                          22.90    100.0   15.00       100.0
By Component:
Project Component I - US$20.4 million
The Rural Finance Component will have two sub-components:
-31-



(a) A Commercial Credit line to KAFC to be on-lent to commercial clients based on full collateral
(Sub-component cost -- US$16.1 million)
This sub-component will provide a credit line to KAFC (and other commercial banks when they
become eligible) to on-lend for working capital and investment under commercial terms and conditions.
On-lending will be at rates that will progressively approach market rates and will start at no less than
inflation plus a margin for KAFC that covers all administrative costs, the cost of provisioning, and a risk
premium relevant for each borrower. Anticipated sub-projects would include, among others: on-farm
investment for development of agricultural production, including the provision of seasonal working capital
as appropriate; investment for development of processing, storage, packing, marketing, and other off-farm
agri-business and service sectors; and other rural income-generating activities that have proven positive
cash-flows supported by sound business plans. Intended ultimate beneficiaries for the regular credit line
are those who have commercially viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral, adequate financial
rates of return, and demonstrated repayment capacity. Borrowers will have to meet strict eligibility
requirements related to their ownership, share holding, and management. There will be a system of prior
review to assure that eligibility criteria are enforced; KAFC and other eventual PFIs will be required to
submit the first three sub-loans and any sub-loan greater than US$200,000 equivalent for IDA's prior
review. KAFC (and in future other participating financial institutions) will maintain full autonomy in the
selection of borrowers, approval of sub-projects, and determination of lending terms, and will bear all of
the lending risks.
Reference Rates for On-lending: There are no clearly established and accepted market reference
rates for KAFC's operation. Commercial banks are not extending small loans to farmers. The loans that
they do extend are very limited with terms no longer than 3-6 months, and there are no long term deposits.
Therefore, it will be a challenge to determine the appropriate market rates relevant to KAFC and its
clients. The project will start with the cost of funding to KAFC at no less than the rate of inflation. This
rate will be adjusted every six months to progressively approach the opportunity cost of capital. KAFC's
interest rates to ultirnate borrowers will be floating, based on the cost of funding to KAFC, administration
costs, and a risk premium which will adequately cover loan loss provision.
The Government will also subscribe in KAFC's share capital to ensure that KAFC can maintain
the capital adequacy ratio required by the prudential rules set by NBK. It was agreed during negotiations
that the similar practices to those employed under RFP I will be maintained, i.e. 15 percent of each
withdrawal made for sub-loans be will registered as GOK's share in KAFC. IDA funds earmarked for
technical assistance and for the GOK share capital in KAFC will not be on-lent.
As agreed under the RFP I, KAFC is eventually to be privatized, and this remains an institutional
objective under RFP II. The timing of the privatization process will depend, however, on how quickly the
current regional financial crisis is resolved and on the ability of the private financial sector in the Kyrgyi
Republic to invest in KAFC and take over its functions and portfolio. The appropriate timing for KAFC
privatization will also be closely linked to the capacity and willingness of the commercial banks to lend to
small-scale enterprises, including farmers. A plan for KAFC privatization will be developed during the
Mid-Term Review, which will take place when disbursement from the credit line reaches 50 percent,
or around December 2001, whichever is earlier.
Future Role of Commercial Banks. Commercial banks are expected to play a key role in the
future in providing financial intermediation services for rural areas. However, in recent months
commercial banks have experienced difficulties due to the external and domestic shocks buffeting the
economy. They, therefore, have been unprepared to venture into new lending activities in the rural sector
without the proper tools and experience. The timing is not right at present for the participation of
-32-



commercial banks. It was therefore agreed that KAFC would be the sole participating intermediary until
the Mid-Term Review, at which time commercial bank participation will be considered. In this regard, the
NBK will closely monitor the actual performance of the commercial banks in the other IDA-supported
credit line under the PESP, before encouraging them to engage in agricultural credit. To ensure that KAFC
sustains its positive track record and remains sound in the face of the present regional financial sector
problems, the Government has requested that the project focus first on strengthening the institutional and
human capacity of KAFC.
Once the banking sector stabilizes and commercial banks express interest in participating in the
project, specific arrangements will be made to assess their eligibility to participate. Subsidiary Loan
Agreements will be concluded with the newly qualified PFIs according to the prevailing terms and
conditions for all IDA credit lines. These eligibility criteria will include full compliance with NBK's
regulations, sufficient capital adequacy, sound financial policies, and institutional capacity with
professional staff adequately trained and specialized in medium- and long-term lending for investments and
a sufficient network of branches in rural areas
(b) Special Credit Line for Small-Farmers Credit Outreach Program (Sub-component cost - US$4.3
million)
This sub-component will provide credit for group lending based on "social collateral" to allow
those with inadequate physical collateral but with sound bankable projects to receive loans. Group lending
relies on peer pressure to guarantee repayment. Currently, KAFC is implementing two different
group-lending schemes under different terms and conditions. Under this sub-component, these schemes will
be consolidated, and improved implementation modalities will be introduced.
Project Component 2 - US$2.5 million
Institutional Development Component will have three sub-components:
1. Institutional capacity building supportfor PFIs (Sub-comnponent cost - US$2.0 million.) This
sub-component will support comprehensive capacity building in KAFC to improve its operating efficiency
and ensure that it can survive as a self-sustaining financial intermediary. This effort will include: (a)
improving KAFC's capacity in loan appraisal; financial, asset, and liability management; accounting and
internal audit and control; and other areas covering the full spectrum of KAFC's operations as well as
personnel management and training of staff; (b) simplifying loan processing procedures and streamlining
legal and documentary requirements for loan processing; (c) upgrading KAFC's management information
system (MIS); (d) adopting a corporate governance and supervisory structure that would give KAFC full
autonomy in its lending activities; and (e) developing medium-term corporate strategies and business plahs
with financial projection. In addition, legal advice will be provided regarding the introduction of moveable
property and fixed-assets as collateral, streamlining current legal clearances for loan processing, etc.
KAFC will also receive practical training in assessing the markets for various products that it may finance.
Completion of KAFC 's lending manual acceptable to IDA, completion of thefirst round of new training
programs for lending staff, andfinal selection of the IT/MIS system will be conditions of disbursement of
the credit line component. Other eligible PFIs, in the future, will also receive similar training.
Recognizing that a lack of transportation is one of the key constraints faced by the rural
population, RFP II will establish mobile credit officers to implement both A. 1 and A.2 credit lines. This
innovation has proved to be the keystone of other rural finance projects supported by the Bank/IDA.
Approximately ten vehicles will be included in the project financing for this purpose.
-33-



2. TA and training to developing group lending, based on social collateral (US$0.3 million) will be
provided to enable the project to reach a wide spectrum of rural people, including those near and below the
poverty line. Specific assistance will be provided for group formation and to enhance group sustainability.
This component will be designed to empower local groups to successfully deal with financial issues related
to obtaining and using credit, as well as to obtain technical information and support needed to become
profitable farmers and entrepreneurs. To minimize duplicative initiatives, this sub-component will be
coordinated with other on-going TA, including the UNDP-supported Poverty Alleviation Project which
provides support for group formation at village level and the group development activities of the Rural
Advisory and Development Service (RADS) recently established under the Agricultural Support Services
Project (ASSP) with funding from IFAD, IDA, and the Swiss Government. The project will also explore
the opportunity to work with other existing agencies, e.g. NGOs and other donor-funded agencies, that are
already active in the rural areas to provide group formation support. The main emphasis will be given to
training local trainers and establishing local agencies for the sustainability of this type of support.
3. Development of small-scale rural business development services (US$0.2 nillion). TA will be
provided to establish institutional capacity to promote small-scale economic activities in the rural areas
through the dissemination of information on (a) the availability of credit and terms and conditions of
borrowing, (b) preparation of loan applications and supporting documents, (c) marketing, (d) opportunities
for training, and (e) other private sector development support services in rural areas. Ultimately this
support would lead to the development of bankable projects that can be financed through the credit line
component and increase credit flow to rural areas. There will be partial cost recovery for these services
through fees based on the client income levels. Other costs would be covered by the Borrower or donor
grants. Potential partners include SME development centers, Rural Advisory and Development Centers
(supported under ASSP), NGOs, and other donor supported private agencies.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFI)
1.    In order to be a PFI, banks and other financial institutions, must at all times meet a set of financial
and management criteria and have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Potential PFIs are individually
appraised by NBK jointly with IDA, with particular attention given to their overall lending capabilities, and
fmancial and loan-portfolio performance. The evaluation process focuses on: (a) capital adequacy; (b)
asset quality; (c) management effectiveness; (d) earning performance; and (e) liquidity.
2.    For participation in the project, a potential PFI will be required to meet the following criteria,
namely that such institutions have:
(a) a valid banking license and in compliance with all banking laws and regulations of the Kyrgyz
Republic including the regulatory and reserve requirements of the National Bank of the Kyrgyz
Republic (NBK) - an exception applies for KAFC as it is not a bank;
(b) an audit report acceptable to IDA covering the most recent full year of operations, including a
portfolio review, prepared by an internationally recognized auditing firm in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing (ISA);
(c) a satisfactory management and financial structure, determined, inter alia, on the basis of
satisfactory risk-based capital adequacy, satisfactory asset quality and lending performance;
satisfactory liquidity position; and has the organization, management, technical staff and other
resources required for the efficient execution of its operations, including an adequate network of
-34-



branch offices in the rural areas;
(d) a sound business plan and appropriate budgeting and budget control procedures;
(e) sound lending policies and procedures, and satisfactory internal control and audit procedures and
the capacity for its internal reporting and management information systems provide sufficient
information necessary for managing its operations, performance and risks;
(f) adequate governing bodies (Council, Board etc.) which set overall bank policy and perform
appropriate oversight over the bank's operations; and
(g) an expressed interest and experience in lending to the agricultural and rural sectors.
PRINCIPAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
3.    Principal Amount. The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan which shall be due and repayable
by a PFI shall be in SOM, determined on each date of withdrawal, of the aggregate amount of withdrawals
made by the PFI from the Credit Line.
4.    Interest Rate and Repavment Terms. The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the principal
amount thereof, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, a variable (floating) interest rate equivalent
to the annual inflation rate (consumer price index) published by the National Bureau of Statistics. During
each year the interest payable will be based on the inflation rate projected by NBK and any differences
between the projected and actual rate will be payable no later than 30 days after the actual rate has been
officially announced. Any overpayments will be adjusted and deducted from the first interest payment
payable on the Subsidiary Loan in each financial year. The on-lending rate to KAFC will be adjusted every
six months to progressively approach the opportunity cost of capital.
5.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by PFIs over a period of 15 years,
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 3 years. Any amount repaid by sub-borrowers on account of
sub-loans made under the project, which is not immediately needed for repayment of the subsidiary loan to
MOF, will be kept by PFIs in a separate "roll-over" account. The funds accumulating in the "roll-over"
account should be utilized by PFIs to finance additional sub-projects aimed at pursuing the objectives of the
Project, and which conform to the agreed terms, conditions and eligibility criteria for the Project, as
detailed in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Rural Credit Guidelines (RCG).
6.    Maximum Financing Rate (declining percentage). The maximum amount to be made available by
the Borrower to each PFI from the proceeds of the Credit line will be equivalent to 100 percent of eligible
sub-loans disbursed by each PFI before June 30, 2001, and 80 percent thereafter.
7.    Sub-loan Limits. Total cumulative outstanding sub-loans to any beneficiary financed from the
Second Rural Finance Project credit facility and the credit facility under the first Rural Finance Project
combined should not exceed US$500,000 equivalent.
8.    Portfolio Limits. In each PFI the composition of the total outstanding balance of sub-loans
financed from the credit facility should be comprised of no more than 20 percent of loans for working
capital and no less than 80 percent of loans for financing investments. Compliance will be reviewed at the
-35-



end of each financial year (December 31) by MOF and IDA.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, APPROVAL PROCEDURES
PRINCIPAL TERMS AND GENERAL CONDITIONS OF SUB-LOANS
A. Commercial Credit Line
9.    This sub-component will fnance regular sub-loans for investment and working capital at prevailing
market interest rates and commercial terms with customary collateral, as determined by PFI.
10.   Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects. In order to achieve project objectives, eligible sub-projects
will include:
(a) on-farm investments for development of agricultural and livestock production, including the
provision of seasonal working capital, as appropriate;
(b) investments (including working capital) for development of agro-processing, storage, marketing
and other related agricultural service sub-sectors;
(c) investments (including working capital) in any other economic activity in the rural areas,
including industrial, commercial, tourism, handicrafts, etc. enterprises, provided that the potential
sub-projects are supported by sound business plans and can demonstrate satisfactory cash-flows and
loan repayment capacity.
11.   The purchase or lease of land, dwelling construction or improvement, or the refinancing of any
existing debts will not be eligible for financing from the Credit Line.
12.   PFIs, when evaluating sub-project proposals for off-farm economic activities in the rural areas,
should accord priority to sub-projects that are expected to generate additional employment opportunities
and to proposals that include "innovative" ideas to utilize locally available raw materials.
13.   Eligible Beneficiaries. Eligible beneficiaries will include farmers, small- and medium-scale (SME)
agricultural processing, marketing and service enterprises, operating as individuals, joint stock companies,
farmers' associations, cooperatives or partnerships, and any other private SMEs or entrepreneurs engaged
in economic activities in the rural areas.
14.   Criteria for Selection and Appraisal of Sub-projects. PFIs are responsible for identifying
prospective sub-borrowers and for determining the type of sub-project to be financed, and for following the
eligibility criteria for investments and sub-loan beneficiaries described in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
and RCG. Except as indicated below regarding free-limit sub-loans, PFIs will have full autonomy in
sub-loan approval and will bear the lending risks. Sub-loans shall be for sub-projects, selected by PFIs on
the basis of detailed feasibility studies and careful appraisal by the PFI, will, inter alia, cover the
following:
(a) verification that sub-projects are technically feasible and economically, fnancially and
commercially viable, and designed with appropriate health, safety and environmental standards, in
full compliance with all laws and regulations of the Kyrgyz Republic;
(b) the economic justification of the proposed investment, including an assessment of the
-36-



competitiveness of the end-product compared to imports;
(c) an evaluation of the proposed scale of the sub-project, the need and adequacy of the civil works
and equipment to be procured, the location of the enterprise, its layout and design, and the estimated
costs in domestic and foreign currencies, and an assessment of compliance with pollution control and
other environment laws, regulations and guidelines set by the local and/or national authorities;
(d) an evaluation of the borrower's ownership structure, creditworthiness, organization, management
and financial position, and an evaluation of the technical staff and know-how available for
implementing the sub-project and its operations; and
(e) confirmation that the proposed sub-project meets all environmental laws and standards in force in
Kyrgyz Republic and that no safety hazards or environmental deterioration will result, directly or
indirectly, from the investment sub-project to be financed from the Credit Line under the Project.
15.    Simplified appraisal procedures could be applied to sub-projects with an estimated cost not
exceeding US$ 50,000 equivalent for machinery and equipment, or for modernization, rehabilitation or
small expansion of existing enterprises. Such procedures include, as applicable:
(a) review and assessment of the viability and financial soundness of the potential borrowing
enterprise and its capacity to service the sub-loan; and
(b) the technical verification that the equipment, materials, spare parts, etc. to be procured are
appropriate and are intended to be used in the existing production process to alleviate any existing
production bottlenecks, increase efficiency of the existing process, or contribute to improving quality
and meet higher product standards.
16.    Sub-borrowers' Participation. Sub-borrowers should be required to make the following
contributions from their own resources towards sub-project costs: no less than 10 percent in cash or in kind
for individual farmers and small-scale rural entrepreneurs (excluding sub-loans financed under the Group
Credit outreach program), and no less than 20 percent in cash or in kind for all other types of
sub-borrowers. For new investment sub-projects, the self-contribution, in cash or in kind, will be no less
than 30 percent of total sub-project cost.
17.    Repayment Terms and Interest Rates of Sub-loans. Repayment schedules of sub-loans financed
under the Credit Line will have terms of up to 12 years, inclusive of grace periods of up to 3 years. Grace
and amortization periods will be based on the type of investment financed and the projected (estimated)
cash flow and will be commensurate with the repayment capacity of the borrower. However, in no case will
repayment periods exceed the useful life of the investment financed. In this connection it should be noted
that appraisal projections made by PFI should demonstrate a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 over
the life of the sub-loan, calculated on the basis of borrower's total debts.
18.    PFIs should charge interest on the principal amounts of sub-loans outstanding from time to time at
the prevailing interest rate under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (cost of funds from the Credit Line based
on the variable (floating interest rate) plus a market -based spread determined by the PFI based in each case
on PFI's risk assessment of the sub-project financed, PFI's lending costs (administrative expenditures) and
other banking considerations.
19.    Currency of Sub-loans. All sub-loans financed from the Credit Line will be denominated and
-37-



repayable in domestic currency (Som).
20.   Eligible Area. All sub-projects eligible for financing from the Credit Line must be located outside
the official municipal boundaries of the following major cities of the Kyrgyz Republic: Bishkek, Osh,
Tokmok and Jalal-Abad.
21.   Approval Procedures for Sub-loans above the Free-limit. Each PFI will be required to submit to
IDA the first three sub-project proposals irrespective of the amount of the proposed sub-loan and any
sub-loan proposal in an amount exceeding US$200,000 equivalent (or any sub-loan proposal which
exceeds US$200,000 when added to the outstanding balance of sub-loans fnanced from the Credit Line
under this Project and under the first Rural Finance Project). For that purpose, PFIs will furnish to IDA an
application, which will include (a) a description of the prospective borrower including financial
information, (b) information on the appraisal of the sub-project, including a detailed description with cost
estimates of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit Line, (c) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan, (d) the Procurement Plan and Environmental Assessment,
and (e) any other information that the PFI considers useful for the review of the sub-project proposal.
22.   Accounts and Record-keeping. PFIs will establish in their accounting systems appropriate
accounting codes to permit identification of sub-loans made under the project, including those fnanced
from the "roll-over" account. PFIs will retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Line account was made, all records
pertaining to the subsidiary loan and the sub-loans made by each PFI, including accounts, contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and any other documents evidencing sub-loan expenditures.
23.    General Conditions Applicable to all Sub-loans. All sub-loan agreements signed between the PFI
and the sub-borrower, shall include, inter alia, the following provisions to protect the PFIs' interests and
those of the Kyrgyz Republic and IDA. Sub-borrowers shall be required to:
(a) carry out the sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, economical, financial , environmental and commercial practices, to maintain adequate
records and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the
purpose;
(b) procure the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan in accordance
with instructions of the PFI in compliance with World Bank/IDA Procurement Guidelines, and use
such goods and works exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-project;
(c) permit the PFI's authorized representatives, by themselves or jointly with representatives of IDA,
to inspect the goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the sub-project, the
operation thereof and any relevant documents, accounts and records;
(d) take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practices, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e) provide the PFI or IDA with such infonnation, as shall be reasonable to request, relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operation, and financial condition of the sub-borrower's
-38-



enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the sub-project; and
(f) recognize that the PFI shall preserve its right to tenninate the right of the sub-borrower to the use
of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by the sub-borrower to perform its obligations under
sub-loan agreement with the PFI.
Sub-Component B - Special Credit Line for Group-Lending
24.   Sub-loans will be made to groups of beneficiaries selected according to the following eligibility
criteria:
(a)    Minimum number of members: 5
(b)    Minimum age of member: 18 years
(c)    All members must live in the same village
(d)    Members must be free of debt
(e)    Members should have similar household income (plus/minus 25 percent of members'
average income)
(f)    Members should have prior experience in the field of economic activity for which the loan
is sought
(g)    Members should establish a savings fund into which individuals contribute the same
monthly amount. The first two months of savings are placed into a Joint Guarantee Fund.
To become eligible for a second loan, the group members must continue monthly savings
(h)    Members must each contribute to a Joint Guarantee Fund. Each member shall contribute
the same amount, which will determine the maximum loan amount available to individual
members:
Loan Range              Required Guarantee         Amount per Member
l to5,000                    3%                           150
5,001 to 10,000               5%                           500
10,001 to 20,000              7%                          1,400
25.   Collateral.  Loans will be secured by social collateral - i.e. joint/mutual guarantee by group
members. Beneficiaries will not be required to provide physical collateral - i.e. pledges of assets.
26.   Repayment Terms and Interest Rates. Repayment terms for short-term loans will not exceed 18
months. Repayment of medium-term loans financing investments will be up to three years, including a
grace period not exceeding one year. PFIs should charge interest at the rates prescribed for the commercial
credit line.
27.    Sub-loan Limit. The maximum amount of a loan to an individual member of a group shall not
exceed Som 20,000. The maximum amount of a sub-loan to a group shall not exceed Som 500,000; in
case a group has an outstanding balance of an earlier sub-loan, the limits indicated in this paragraph
shall apply to the cumulative outstanding balance of sub-loans.
28.   Members'/Beneficiarv Contribution. Group members shall be required. to contribute from their
-39-



own resources, in cash or in kind, no less than 10 percent of sub-project cost.
29.    General. Provisions detailed in the Rural Credit Guidelines and relating to procurement, compliance
with environmental standards, location of sub-projects, criteria for selection of sub-projects, and the general
conditions application to all sub-loans, shall equally apply to all sub-loans financed under sub-component B.
-40-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance 11
.'~~~~~ a    i.''.iM''g.=m 21W
A - CREDIT LINE COMPONENT                                     0.0           0.0           0.0
A. 1 - Commercial Credit Line                              7.8           8.3          16.1
A.2 - Small Farmers Outreach Program                       3.3           1.0           4.3
B. - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT                      0.0           0.0           0.0
B. I - Strengthening of KAFC's capactity in loan appraisal,  1.5         0.5           2.0
risk management, etc
B.2a - Support for group formation and group lending based  0.2          0.1           0.3
on social collateral
B.2b - Support for small-scale rural business development  0.1           0.1           0.2
Total Baseline Cost                                          12.9          10.0          22.9
Physical Contingencies                                       0.0           0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                          0.0           0.0           0.0
Total Project Costs                12.9          10.0          22.9
Total Financing Required                 12.9          10.0          22.9
-41-



Annex 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance 11
Financial Analysis of Farm Models
Introduction: Several farm studies, including the Farm Profitability Assessment Study prepared
by a TA team funded by a donor, and a random sample analysis of actual investment carried under RFP I,
indicate that the Kyrgyz Republic has comparative advantage in the production of its major commodities.
These include, wheat, maize, barley, other fodder crop such as Alfalfa, cotton, and livestock products such
as wool, meat, and dairy cattle. Although farmgate prices for most of these commodities are still well
below international parity prices, farmers' profitability in the production of these commodities has been
generally improving. Mixed farming of crop and livestock production is a common pattern, except in
mountainous areas where sheep farming is most predominant. Mixed farming system provides farmers
reasonable risk diversification, balanced cash flow, and flexibility in responding to changes in market
signals.
No attempt was made to derive overall financial rate of return and net present value for the project
as it is a demand driven credit line and it is not possible to foresee in advance what types of farm and
off-farm projects will be financed under the project. However, in order to illustrate the financial impact of
those entities receiving credit, six models were developed. The "without" situation is represented by the
current production structure, yields and costs of selected farms which face credit shortage. The "with"
situation stipulates farmers' having access to credit, and be able to procure modern inputs, and other
productive modes, with which, increases in yields and cost efficiency can be achieved
Six Representative Models: These six farm and enterprise models analyzed are typical agricultural
activities in the Kyrgyz Republic. They are:
Farm 1: A large mixed crop farm investing in the rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation systems;
Farm 2: A mid-size wheat farm increasing sown area by buying a new tractor;
Farm 3: A mid-size mixed crop farm changing cropping pattern towards more profitable crop by
buying a new tractor;
Farm 4: A mid-size wheat farm saving on hired harvesting services by buying a new tow harvester;
*     Farm 5: A dairy farm increasing its herd by building a new shed and purchasing extra animals;
Model 6: A construction of a new slaughterhouse.
Assumptions:
The underlying crop/livestock budgets are presented in Table 1.
The analysis is based on the constant 1998 farm-gate prices.
Financing is assumed at 15 percent annual rate for 10 years with 20 percent self-financing.
Results of the Analysis
The detailed financial models for each farm are available in the project file and are summarized in
Table 2. All models show profitable investments with NPVs ran!gigfrom Som 18, 192 to Som
30,869,334 and IRRs -- from 14 to 37 percent. The Table alsoThcontains sensitivity analysis based on
switching values for the major inflow and outflow items. The models are rather resilient to changes in
revenue/cost estimates with the exception for the two models with tractor purchase.
It is evident that the project, through combination of making credit available to various private
-42-



farms, and support for small-business development, and other TA, would lead to substantial improvements
in farm profitability. The FRRs are particularly sensitive to increase in both inputs and product prices.
The switching value analysis shows that costs and reduction of revenues have to be substantial before each
sub-project becomes financially unsustainable.
Kyrgyz Republic
RFP II
Table 1: Crop/Livestock Budgets
With project - Benefit and Cost Analysis
Winter              Maize                                           Dairy
(Per ha)               Unit    Wheat   Barley    Silage   Alfalfa  Sunarbeet  (Per 50 heads)   Farm
FINANCIAL
BUDGET
Revenue
Sub-total Revenue    Som       5,640    4,923      6,092    2.675      16,614    Milk            506,000
Input costs                                                                      calves           40,675
Seeds               Som       618      633        390       22       1,833     culls            60,754
Urea                Som       180      180       390        36         360     Sub-total       607.430
Revenue
Water               Som        30       30        60        30          60     Input
costs
Harvesting          Som      1,172    1,250      1,180     643       5.400     Replaceme       151,163
nts
Transport           Sam       171       183       217      114       2,311     Concentrat       32,040
es
Taxes and social    Som       762      762        762      762        762      Salt             1,050
security
Overheads           Som        194      332       223        97      1,031     Medicines         778
Sub-total Input       Som      3,128    3,370      3,222    1,704      11,757    Inseminatio      6,000
costs                                                                            n
Income (Before        Som      2,512    1,552      2,870     970       4,856     Silage           23,904
Labor Costs)
Labor costs                                                                      Hay              77,750
Labor               Som       240       300       380      140       4,120     Labor&ss         50,000
Income (After         Som      2.272    1,252      2,490     830        736      Fuel             40,000
Labor Costs)
Sub-total       382,685
costs
Income          224.744
YIELDS AND                                                                        (After Labor
INPUTS                                                                            Costs)
Main Production
Output               Kg      2,564    2,735    16,900    2,140      23,600    Main
Production
Operating                                                                        Milk         I  100.000
Inputs                                                                         Calves      ko   1,179
Seeds                Kg       206      211        50       n.a.       10       Culls       ka   1,761
Urea                 Kg       60        60        130       12        120      Operating
Inputs
Water               # of       2         2         4        2          4       Concentrat cn    178
irrigation                                                   es
Labor             Manday       12       15        19        7         206      Salt        cn     5
Silage      cn    664
PRICES                                                                            Hay         cn    622
Output             Som/kg     2.2       1.8      0.360    1.250      0.704     PRICES
Operating                                                                        Milk         I   5.06
Inputs                                                                         Calves       ka   34.5
(meat)
Seeds              Som/kg     3.0       3.0       7.8      n.a.       183      Culls        ka   34.5
(meat)
-43-



Kyrgyz Republic
RFP II
Table 1:Crop/Livestock Budgets(Contd.)
Urea               Som/kg       3         3          3         3          3        Concentrat  cn    180
as
Water             Som/irriga    15        15         15        15         15       Salt         cn   210
-tion
Labor             Som/man-   20           20        20        20         20        Silage       cn    36
day
Hay         cn    125
44-



Kyrgyz Republic
RFP II
Table 2:Financial indicators and switching values
(before financing)
Appraisal                   Percent
(In Local)                                  Value     Switchinq Value   Change
Model 1: Irrigation
IRR = 27%, NPV = 1,385,423
Incremental inflows                     3,454,389     1,999,472      -42.1
Incremental outflows
Investment costs                      1,196,428     2,651,345      121.6
Operating costs                        645,512      2,100,430      225.4
Other Costs                            157,531      1,612,448      923.6
Total outflows                          1,999,472     3,454,389       72.8
Model 2: Tractor (A)
IRR = 14%, NPV = 18,191
Incremental inflows                     1,553,811     1,400,949       -9.8
Incremental outflows
Investment costs                       446,428        599,290       34.2
Operating costs                        954,520      1,107,382       16.0
Total oufflows                          1,400,949     1,553,811       10.9
Model 3: Tractor (B)
IRR = 18%, NPV = 27,377
Incremental inflows                     889,977        789,690       -11.3
Incremental outflows
Investment costs                      446,428        546,716        22.5
Operating costs                       343,261        443,549        29.2
Total outflows                          789,690        990,265        923.6
Model 4: Harvester
IRR = 19%, NPV = 260,929
Incremental inflows                        -           234,174         -
Incremental oufflows
Investment costs                      200,892        435,067        116.6
Operating costs                       435,067        200,892         -
Total outflows                          635.959           -            -
Model 5: Shed for dairy farm
IRR = 21%, NPV = 201,307
Incremental inflows                     3,248,251     2,760,708       -15.0
Incremental outflows
Investment costs                       714,285      1,201,828       68.3
Operating costs                       2,046,423     2,533,966       23.8
Other Costs
Total outflows                          2,760,708     3,248,251       17.7
Model 6: Slaughter house
IRR = 32%, NPV = 30,869,333
Incremental inflows                    274,693,105    220,597,687     -19.7
Incremental oufflows
Investment costs                     12,053,571     66,148,989     448.8
Operating costs                      208,544,115    262,639,534     25.9
Other Costs                              -              -            -
Total outflows                         220,597,687    274,693,105     24.5
-45-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance If
KAFC - Status of Current Operation & Financial Statements (as of December 31, 1998)
Introduction
1.    The Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC) was established by a Government Decree
No. 303 of July 2, 1996 and was formally registered as a joint stock company in December 1996, with
Government being the sole shareholder. Although not licensed as a bank, KAFC is supervised by the
National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) as a non-bank financial institution. KAFC was created in
order to serve as the sole financial intermediary for the IDA financed Rural Finance Project (Cr.
29590-KG)
Corporate Governance
2.    KAFC's Board of Directors is elected annually at the Shareholders' Meeting; according to the
charter, the Board consists of seven members, three representing the Government and three representing
the private sector. Those representing the Government are the Minister of Finance, the Minister of
Agriculture and Water Resources, and the Chairman of the State Property Fund. The seventh member is
the Executive Director of KAFC. The Board convenes two or three times a year and its principal role is
providing policy direction, approving the annual business plan and supervising the corporation's activities.
The Executive Director, appointed by the Board for a period of three years, has full powers to manage the
affairs of the Corporation.
Organization and Staffing
3.    Currently, KAFC has its head office in Bishkek, three main oblast branch offices (established in
September 1998) in Osh, Issyk-Kul and Jalal-Abad, and 31 small representative offices, mostly at rayon
level. The establishment of two additional oblast branches, in Chui and Talas is planned for April 1999.
With the opening of the oblast branches, KAFC has just started to decentralize operations and authorized
branch loan committees to approve and process loans up to 40,000 Som for individuals and 50,000 Som
for group lending. Total staff of KAFC is 181, with 73 staff in the head office and the remaining 108 in
the branches and representations.
Lending Operations - 1997 and 1998 and Plan for 1999
4.    The first Rural Finance Project provides funding for regular KAFC short-, medium- and long-term
loans, at commercial terms, for investments and working capital, for on-farm development, agro-processing
and other agribusiness activities, and for a pilot " Small Farmer Credit Outreach Program" (SFCOP)
targeted at rural households at, or slightly above the poverty line.
5.    KAFC's regular lending activities started in spring of 1997. During the first year of lending
operations (to December 1997) KAFC succeeded to make about 340 loans with total disbursements of
about Som 34 million. During 1998, KAFC made 1,317 loans totaling 110 million Som. As was
envisaged at appraisal of the first RFP, the major portion of the loans made during the first two years was
in short-term working capital loans, repayable within one year. About 65 percent of the amount of loan
disbursements financed agriculture and livestock production and the remaining 35 percent financed
-46-



agro-processing and agri-business activities. Until December 31, 1998 total repayments of principal
amounted to about Som 40.6 million and the cumulative loan recovery rate, at that date, was 85.6 percent.
The total outstanding balance (before provisions), as of December 31, 1998, was about 100 million Som.
6.    SFCOP lending started one year later than the regular KAFC operations. Beginning in March
1998, KAFC organized 137 Farmers' Self-help Groups, legally registered as Agricultural Consumer
Cooperatives (ACC) which received short-term (one year) loans totaling about 27.6 million Som. The
number of group members/borrowers was 1,650 and the maximum loan amount per individual member was
set at 20,000 Som (equivalent to US$670 at the present exchange rate). Repayments of the first batch of
loans has already started and by December 31, 1998 the recovery rate (principal and interest) was about 85
percent.
7.    KAFC's business plan for 1999 projects a modest increase in the volume of lending operations
with estimated disbursements of about Som 140 for regular lending (110 Som in 1998) and about 40
million Som for SFCOP (Som 27 million in 1998). KAFC management is aware that the very rapid
growth of lending operations since inception in early 1997, coupled with the setting up of 34 branch offices
and representations, induction of about 200 staff and testing of various operational procedures has
over-stretched the institution's capacity. Although sufficient funding is available for a much larger than
projected volume of lending, KAFC needs a period of consolidation, to focus its attention on strengthening
its organization, the operating systems and procedures, revamping its accounting system and installing a
new management information system, and raising the professional capabilities of its staff through intensive
training.
Financial Position
8.    Attached are the 1998 financial statements audited by Price Waterhouse Coopers Total assets
amounted to and the income statement shows Operational expenditures Total equity amounted to of which
about Som 75 million was financed from the proceeds of the first RFP credit. KAFC fully satisfies the
capital adequacy ratio.
Collections from Government Agricultural Credit Programs
9.    In connection with the first Rural Finance Project it was agreed that KAFC will be involved in the
recovery of loans made to the agricultural sector between 1992 to 1996 and financed from budgetary
resources. All loan recoveries will become Government's share capital contribution to KAFC. In 1997 and
1998 KAFC has collected Som 7.8 million, as shown in paragraph 8 above describing the sources of the
equity capital.
-47-



Financial Statements of KAFC
BALANCE SHEETS
AT 31 DECEMBER 1998 AND 1997*
ASSETS                                                 1998                         1997
Cash and short term funds                            12,870                       14,848
Marketable Securities                                56,959                       9,976
Loans to customers - net                             113,027                      30,969
Other assets                                         13,783                       4,846
Property and equipment                               27,498                       19,742
Total Assets                                          224,137                      80,381
LIABILITIES
115,214                      2,808
Due to Government
Other liabilities                                    4,020                        8,708
Total Liabilities                                    119,234                       11,516
Shareholders Equity
Share capital                                        98,437                       59,089
Adjustment to share capital                          15,411                       13,114
Accumulated deficit                                  (8,945)                      (3,338)
Total shareholders' equity                           104,903                      68,865
Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equitv             224.137                      80.381
INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1998 and 1997
Interest income                                       39,616                       4,411
Interest expense                                      (8,192)
Not interest income                                   31,424                       4,411
Fees and commission income                             801                          171
Fees and commission expense                           (114)
Net fees and commission income                         687                          171
Foreign exchange gains                                 1,746
Other operating income                                 5,303                       6,477
Admninistrative expenses                             (25,406)                     (10,750)
Operating income                                      13,754                        309
Provisions for loan losses                           (12,623)                      (874)
Monetary loss                                        (10,515)                      (1,492)
Loss before tax                                       (9,384)                      (2,057)
Deferred income tax                                    3,777                       (1,281)
Net loss for the year                                (5.607)                      (3.338!
*Amounts expressed in thousands of Kyrgyz Som (Som) in terms of the purchasing power of Som at
31 December 1998
-48-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance 11
Procurement
Procurement of goods will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1, 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997 revised September 1997, and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Goods and technical
assistance to be financed by the Government/co-financiers will be procured in accordance with the public
procurement regulations or the regulations and practices of each co-financier. A general procurement
notice will be published on the Development Business in July 1999.
Procurement responsibilities
For the investment part of the project- mainly Management and Information Systems, procurement
will be the responsibility of KAFC.
For sub-projects financed under the credit line and executed by sub-borrowers, procurement
procedures will comply with those customary for operations through financial intermediaries (at present
only KAFC). Procurement will be the responsibility of sub-borrowers who will have access to technical
assistance in this work from KAFC (and later commercial banks). KAFC will have at least one additional
experienced procurement officer and a procurement assistant fully trained in procurement under
Bank-financed projects (to be hired prior to the effectiveness). A project launch workshop will be held close
to effectiveness (currently scheduledfor July 1999). The project launch workshop will include training
sessions on procurement specifically for the staff of KAFC, Rural Advisory Centers (being established in
IDA supported Agricultural Support Services Project), and other interested commercial banks, if any.
KAFC will be responsible for ensuring that sub-borrowers adhere to Bank procurement guidelines. An
assessment of the procurement capacity of KAFC and random sample of private enterprises (potential
borrowers) has been conducted and the report has been finalized. As a result of the assessment, it has been
determined that although KAFC has some procurement knowledge because of its experience with
procurement under the IDA financed First Rural Finance Project, its staff needs additional training.
Furthermore, the environment in which private enterprises operate is not fully conducive to transparent,
competitive and economic procurement. Therefore, the assessment report will recommend that
procurement under the credit line estimated to cost equivalent or less than 300,000 per contract may be
awarded in accordance with the established commercial practices of sub-borrowers, provided that such
practices include obtaining quotations from more than one supplier or contractor. The procurement
arrangements discussed below reflect those thresholds.
-49-



Kyrgyz
Rural Finance Project II
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Category Elements                                       Procurement Methods                                  Total
ICB           NCB          Other'         N.B.F.           Cost
A   Credit Line component
Al.Credit Line                                                                  20.4                          20.4
(14.00)                      (14.00)
B   Institutional Development Component
B1. TA for KAFC
MIS equipment                      0.23                                                        0.23
(0.23)                                                     (0.23)
Vehicles                                                         0.18                          0.18
(0.18)                       (0.18)
Office equipment                                                 0.05                          0.05
(0.05)                       (0.05)
Consultants                                                      0.05           1.50           1.55
(0.05)                       (0.05)
B2.0ther TA
Group Lending                                                     0.30                           0.3
Program Development
(0.30)                        (0.3)
SME Development                                                  0.20                          0.20
(0.20)                       (0.20)
Total                                             0.23                          21.18          1.50           22.9
Bank/IDA                                         (0.23)                        (14.781                       (15.00)
Note:   Goods and works to be procured under the credit line estimated to cost equivalent or less than 300,000 per contract may be awarded in
accordance with the established cormmrcial practices of sub-borrowers, provided that such practices include obtaining quotations from more than one
supplier or contractor. Procurement of vehicles, office equiprnment and other goods estimated to cost less than US $200,000 should be done on the
basis of International Shopping (total estirrated value US $280,000) Consultants for assignments related to MIS (US $50,000) will be selected using
QCBS. Group Lending and SME Developrnnt components will consist of 2 consultant assignments selected through QBS. Individual experts for
the above components (10 contracts for each of components over period of three years) wIll be selected in accordance with Part V of the consultant
guidelines. NBF: 1.40 million from EU-TACIS.
'Explain exception
Procurement methods (Table A)
I. CREDIT LINE
Funds from the credit line (US$14) million will be utilized by a large number of
sub-borrowers for procuring various types of goods, equipment, civil works, and on-site technical
assistance. The majority of sub-loans are expected to be less than US$10,000 equivalent for a large
number of farms and rural enterprises mostly for working capital and small-scale hardware. In order to
allow sub-borrowers the use of commercial practices in procurement of goods, the IDA has reviewed the
procurement practices in the Kyrgyz Republic and has determnined that reasonably acceptable
-50-



commercial practices are applied by the private sectors that Kyrgyz private farms and enterprises do
seek competitive prices from different suppliers. Therefore, for contracts estimated to cost US $300,000
sub-borrowers will conduct all their purchases through the commnercial practices provided that such
commercial practices include obtaining quotations from more than one supplier or contractor. Contracts
between $300,000 and $500,000 will be procured following the international shopping procedures (IS).
In this regard, the assessment report includes an action plan to further familiarize the sub-borrowers with
economic purchasing practices.
II. OTHER PROCUREMENT
The investment part of the project include procurement of MIS system for the KAFC accounting
and loan portfolio tracking, MIS related technical assistance services and sets of small-scale
equipment. These will be procured as follows:
(a)     Goods (estimated value US $450,000). Procurement of cars, office equipment and other
goods estimated to cost US $225,000 should be done on the basis of International Shopping (IS).
MIS banking system (network program-estimated to cost 225,000) should be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). For the purchase of goods to be awarded through ICB, the
Borrower may grant a margin preference of 15 percent or the amount of applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in accordance with the Guidelines
referred to above. The aggregate for each procurement method is given in the footnotes under Table
A.
(b)     Consultants' Services (estimated value US $550,000). Consultants for assignment
related to the selection and implementation of MIS (estimated to cost US$50,000) will be selected
using consultant qualification selection method. Group Lending and SME Development components
will consist of 2 consultant assignments for firms (US $100,000 each) selected through the quality
based selection method (QBS). Individual experts for the above components (10 contracts for each
of components over period of three years) will be selected in accordance with Part V of the
consultant guidelines. For the aggregates, See the footnotes under Table A.
All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review by the IDA. With respect to Services, prior
IDA review will be required of all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. The prior
review will follow the sub-project review requirement that every three first packages from any bank
and every package exceeding US $200,000 should be reviewed. For contracts under investment part
(other than credit line), first contract awarded on the basis of IS will be subject to prior review. All
other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the IDA. For contracts with consulting firms
estimated to cost less than US$100,000, the IDA will review the terms of reference. For contracts with
individual consultants costing US$20,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference
and terms of employment shall be furnished to the IDA for its review and approval prior to contract
signature. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the IDA
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review by the IDA. With respect to Services, prior
IDA review will be required of all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. The prior
review will follow the sub-project review requirement that every first three sub-loans from any bank
and every package exceeding US $200,000 should be reviewed by IDA. All other contracts will be
subject to ex-post review by IDA. For contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than
-51-



US$100,000, IDA will review the terms of reference. For contracts with individual consultants costing
US$20,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be
furnished to IDA for its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be
subject to ex-post review by IDA.
Table B
Kyrgyz Republic
Rural Finance II
Procurement Information
Nl        _ 1I 1Y 1-4___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __
Element                  ICB                                                                    NS         Commercial practices
(Goods/Works)
I Procurement method   Credit Line>US $0.5mill       n.a.              Credit Line<US $0.5mill  n.a.       Credit line <US $300,000
thresholds               Other than CL >US$0.2mill                     Other than CL <US
$0. 2mill
2. Prior Review          yes                         n.a.              yes                      n.a.       yes
Element (Consultant      QBCS                        QBS               Individuals              Sole S.   Consultant qualification
Services)
3. Procurement method   US$0.50 mill                 Est. US$0.5 mill  n.a                      n.a        Assign est. US$0.50
thresholds
4. Prior Review          Yes, all                    Yes,>US$O. Imill  Yes, >US$0.02mill        n.a.       all
5. Ex-post Review        Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract
I management and project record keeping during periodic supervision missions.
6. Brief statement:     Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the KAFC.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement           8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions
Strategy Paper status: Country Procurement Strategy Paper has been prepared   of the first year ready by negotiations?    Yes
in 1998.,
9. Estimated date of Project         10.          I1. Indicate if contracts are      12. Domestic         13. Domestic Preference
Launch Workshop: July 1999          Estimated    subject to mandatory SPN in         Preference for       for Consultant Services:
date of      Development Business:  Yes         Goods/Works:Yes   No
GPN                                             /No
publication
July 1999.
14. Retroactive financing      No  J                                      15. Advanced Procurement       No
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
KAFC will develop a monitoring/reporting system for timely implementation of the procurement.
18. El   be   th e d rl of th Fe  Oi  in Procurement:
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team: Snezana Mitrovic, Procurement Specialist, ECSSD         Ext. x321t2
IS. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:l
Field Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team.
-52-



Procurement Plan
1           2         3          4           5                      6. Estimated dates
Description    Type   Number of  Estimated   Procurement  Pre-qual/SL   (BD/RFP)    Bidding   Contract   Contract
slices/items             Method               I .Preparation   Process   signing   Completion
A. Credit Line
Component
Al. Credit Line    Other               25.1     Commercial    n.a.      Jun 99   through  project   life
practices/
Intemational
Shopping
B. Instit. Dev.
Component
B I. TA for KAFC
MIS equipment    G           1        0.225        ICB        n.a.     July 99    Sept 99   Nov    Feb 00
99
Vehicles    G        1        0.175         IS         n.a.    July 99   Aug 99   Sept   Nov 99
99
Office equipment   G        1         0.05        is          n.a.    July 99   Aug 99   Sept   Nov 99
99
Consultants   CF        1        0.05         CQ       June 99   June 99   July 99  Oct 99  June 00
B2.Other TA
Group Lending  CF/Cl     1/10       0.30       QBS/IND               Jun 99   through  project   life
SME  CF/Cl       1/10       0.20      QBS/IND                Jun 99   through  project   life
Development
Total                             26.1
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 5 years. The anticipated completion date is
December 31, 2004 and the closing date is June 30, 2004. Disbursement will follow normal IDA
procedures and will be made against eligible expenditures. Table C shows allocation of credit
proceeds. The financing percentages in Table C are net of any taxes as the activities under the
project are tax-exempt.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) all sub-loans under Part A-Credit Line of
the project; (b) goods contracts under Part B of the project with estimated costs of less than
-53-



US$200,000 each; (c) consultants contracts with firms less than US$100,000; and (d) individuals
costing US$20,000 equivalent or less each. For all contracts financed under the credit line, full
documentation in support of the SOE will be retained by the KAFC for at least two years after the
closing date of the credit. This information will be made available for review by IDA missions
during project supervision and by auditors, the minimum application size for payments directly
from the credit account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the special
account authorization.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, KAFC will open a Special Account before credit effectiveness and
maintain it until project completion. The Special Account will be established in the same
commercial bank where the Special Account for the first Rural Finance Project is located on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account will be drawn upon to meet
payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. Disbursement for sub-loans
to final beneficiaries will be based on the terms of payment in the sub-loan agreements and
according to the actual expenditures incurred.
The selected bank should have: (a) significant foreign correspondence network covering all
currencies; (b) reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct
foreign payments and other international transactions; (c) capacity to perform a wide range of
banking services at local branches, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic or regional
banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) the
capacity of maintain adequate accounts for the Special Account as required by the World Bank and
provide monthly bank statements to PMU; (e) willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that
amounts deposited in the SA will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts
due to a commercial bank by the Borrower; and (f) willingness to charge competitive rates for their
services and provide reasonable interest income to the balances held.
The initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to US$1.0 million. The initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$2.0 million once aggregate
disbursement of US$5.00 million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. Project accounts
will be operated for discrete activities and funded from the Special Account based on disbursement
applications signed by the authorized officials.
-54-



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
re%b                As =o_ t     rr,~Ul~r~       V1n0 ,w
Credit Line (Part A)                        14.0           100% of eligible sub-loans disbursed by
the PFIs on or before June 30, 2001 and
80% disbursed thereafter
Institutional Development (Part B)           0.0
-goods                                    0.5                100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex factory
cost)
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
-consultants                              0.5                          100%
Total Project Costs                         15.0.
Total                                       15.0
-55-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance 11
P~O        N E40            7                        _1
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)      02/01/99                    02/01/99
Appraisal mission departure              04/25/99                    04/30/99
Negotations                              05/11/99                    05/11/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            10/30/99
Prepared by:
The Government of Kyrgyz Republic and the IDA
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
, _..N...                   ,Sec milit
Hoonae Kim                        Team Leader
Michael Nelson                    Operations Analyst
S. Leigh Hammill                  Program Assistant
Stan Peabody                      Social Analysis
Michael Gascoyne                  Financial Management
Asyl Undeland                     Operations - Resident Mission
Orunbeck Shamkanov                Operations - Resident Mission
Joseph Goldberg                   Peer reviewer - Overall Project Design
Alexander Fleming                 Peer Reviewer - Financial Sector
Jacob Intrator                    Consultant - Rural Banking
Maija Treija                      Consultant - Rural Finance
Hermine De Soto                   Social Anthropologist
Snezana Mitrovic                  Procurement
Laura Tuck                        Quality Assurance
-56-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance 11
A. Project Implementation Plan
Being prepared.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Environmental Assessment
2. Social Assessment
3. Financial Assessment
4. Procurement Assessment
C. Other
KIAFC
KAFC Business Plan 1999, 1998-2000
KAFC Balance Sheet, KAFC Statement of Income, SFCOP Statement of Income
KAFC Volume of Credits Approved, Disbursed and Repaid in 1997-1998 (Table)
Lending Agreement
Business Plan Form for Loans Under 40,000 Soms (13 pages in English)
KAFC Regional Network and Organizational Structure
SFCOP
SFCOP 1998 Report (agr. Sector, program and donors, exec. Agency, targeted group, objectives
and aims, review of activity, training of farmers, strategy for development)
SFCOP Statement of Income, January 1, 1999
Group Development Strategy of SFCOP (Chart in English from Bakyt), February 1999
SFCOP Grant Administration Agreement
SFCOP Credit Agreement
SFCOP Conditions of Borrowing
SFCOP Credits by Client, Rayon, and Oblast
SFCOP Types of Activities by Client, Rayon and Oblast
FDF
Equity Investment Agreement (English and Russian, signed)
Framework Agreement (Agriculture Support Services Project) between Kyrgyz Republic, UNDP,
and KAFC
Operational Manual for Farm Development Fund Under ASSP (Russian)
Credit Programs and TA in Agriculture
National Microcredit Summit, Agency Report of UNDP Poverty Alleviation Project, May 1998
ACDI/VOCA Food for Progress Rural Finance Activity, Microfmance Summit
Helvetas Kyrgyzstan for UNDP Microcredit Summit
UNDP Participatory Poverty Alleviation Programme, Phase 2, Semi-Annual Report July-
December 1998
-57-



Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources - List of Agriculture Sector Projects by Donor
Summary of Kyrgyz Rural Credit Programs, Prepared by Leigh
*Including electronic files
-58-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance 11
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
Number of Closed Projects: 6
KG-PE-38569    1999 GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC   SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.                    0.00       36.50       0.00       18.11    -0.40      0.00
KG-PE-62682    1999 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC            FLOOD EMERGENCY                        0.00       10.00       0.00       9.90      0.46      0.00
KG-PE40721    1998 GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC   AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                    0.00       14.98       0.00       14.35     0.94      0.00
KG-PE46042    1998 GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ REPUB  IRRIGATION REHAB.                       0.00       35.00       0.00       32.58    -0.44      0.00
KG-PE-8520     1997 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC            RURAL FINANCE                          0.00       16.00       000        5.03     -3.74      0.00
KG-PE-45631    1996 THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC        FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                   0.00        3.40       0.00       1.63      1.53      0.00
KG-PE-8513     1996 GOVT OF KYRGYZ              SHEEP &WOOLIMPROV.                    0.00       11.60        0.00      6.68      1.76      0.00
KG-PE-8519     1996 GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC   POWER& DIST. HEAT                      0.00       35.00       0.00       31.72    11.77     19.37
KG-PE-8523     1996 GOVT OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC   HEALTH                                  0.00       18.50       0.00       5.50     -1.60      0.00
KG-PE-8524     1995 GOVT OF KYRGHYZSTAN        PRNV. ENTERP. SUPP.                    0.00       15.00       0.00       12.83    12.36      0.00
Total:      0.00      195.98       0.00     138.33     22.64     19.37
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        68.52         269.04         337.56
of which has been repaid:        0.00           0.00           0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       213.98         269.00         482.98
Amount sold:         0.00           0.00            0.00
of which repaid:        0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:       138.33           1.36         139.69
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-59-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Mar-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1995                 Kumtor Gold                   27.50    10.00    0.00     0.00   27.50    10.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         27.50    10.00    0.00     0.00    27.50    10.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
-60-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Rural Finance II
Europo &                                                 5/28199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Kyrgyz   Centrai       Low-
R-public      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1997
Populaon, mid-year (millions)                          4.6       476      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At!as method, USS)                     440      2,320      3S0
GNP (Atlas method, VS$ billions)                       2.0      1 106      722
Averaqe annualt growth, 1991497
Population l%)                                         0.7        0.2       2,1     G                                Gr
Labor force (%)                                        1,2        0.6       2.3     GNP        Z/        \           Gross
Labor force M                                                ~~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~per a  000primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avalhable, 199147)                                 pit                         enrollment
Poverty (% of poputetialt below national poverty line)  S1
Jrban paPulation (% of tot& pOpulation)                 30        67        28
Liti expectancy atbirth (Ye"rs)                         67        69        59
Infarnt mortality twr 1, 000 ive births)                32        25        78
Chikd malnutrition f% of childrern under 5)                         -                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  75                  71
Illiteracv 1% of populatfion age f`5+)                   ,         ,        47
Gross primarv enrollment 1% of school-age population)                                            KyrgyzIRepublic
Male                                                 110                 100                   Low-income group
Female                                               111 I1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     198s      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ,.        ,,       1.8       1.8
Gross domesticinvestment/GDP                         ,           25.2      21 .
Exports of goods and services/GDP               .                30.7      38.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..      ..       -0.6      13.8
Gross national savinAs/GDP                                       -8.8        . 7 
Current account balancelGOP                    ..        .      -233       -9.1     Domestic 
Interest pavments/GDP                           ,        .        1,9       3.3     +aig                         nvsmn
Total debt/GDP                                                 - 64,4      81.0     Savings
Total debt servicelexports,                                      19.2      14.7
Debt/GDP                -                                        64.0      810
Debt/exports                                                    20S.0     2t2.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987497     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           8 5      7.1       10.4       20                    Kyrgyz Republic
GNP per capita                                8.6   B .8        -22.8       1.0                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                            -       20.0       0.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     19S6      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          4
Aqriculture                                                      46.3      45.2     40
Industrv                                                         17.0      20.8     20 . 
Manufacturing.                                                 11.1      16.2      0
Services                                                         29.8      27.9    -20                            g 5  37
Private consumption                                              82.1      76.2    -40
General government consumption                                   18.5      17.1               -     GDI           GOP
Imports of goods and services                                    56.6      48.9
(average annual growth)                   1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (#)
Agriculture                                                      15.1       7.0    Go
Industry                                                          2.7       5.0    40
Manufacturina                                                   3.9      39.7    20
Services                                                         -3.1       9.9      o
Private consumption                                              15.3       6.4   -20      92   93    54 11i    97
General government consumption                                   21.2       6.5   -40
Gross domestic investment                                        36.2       6.5   -eo
Imports of goods and services                                    54.3      10.3                   Exports     0  Imports
Gross national product                                            9 0.      4.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
f tall In 1997 is related to the phase out of the Atlas svnthetic methodolocy
-61-



Kyrgyz Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                 1976      1986       1996       1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                                1,000.
Consumer prices                                    ..        ..       35.0      14.7       600 --
Implicit GDP deflator                               ..       ..       35.3      13.3 .3      o   /
400-
Government finance                                                                         200
(% of GDP, inctudes current grants)                                                         o
Current revenue                                     ..       ..       13.8      15.2                92    93   94    s5    9s   97
Current budget balance                              ..       ..       -7.2      4.3                -     GDP detlator    e  CP1
Overall surplus/deficit (accrual)                  ..        ..       -9.4      -8.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..        ..       531        633      1.000
Electric Energy                                   ..       ..        74         83       Boo
Gold and gold products                           ..        ..          0       185       600
Manufactures                                     ..        ..       298        209       600
Total imports (cif)                                                   901        781       400
Food                                              .         .         98        79
Fuel and energy                                  ..        ..       251        239       200
Capital goods                                     ..       ..        183       110         o
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..        96         89            el   92   93   94   95   96   97
Import price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..       101         97                 M Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           .        ..        95         91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                  1976      1986       1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                       ..       ..       562        695       0-
Imports of goods and services                       ..       ..       926        754           51   92               _        X
Resource balance                                    ..       ..      -364        -59      -s-     
Net income                                          ..       ..      -148       -143      -10--
Net current transfers                              ..        ..        89         65      I5
Current account balance                             ..       ..      -423       -137
Financing items (net)                               .                 462        171     -20
Changes in net reserves                            ..        ..        -39       -34      -25
yemo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..        ..       132        200
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                   ..        ..        8.5      13.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997
(USS millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                0        0       1,174     1,432
IBRO                                             0         0          0          0                         G12
IDA                                              0         0        204       266                                   s: 266
Total debt service                                                   89         82            F: 373
IBRD                                             0         0          0          0
IDA                                              0         0          1          2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                    _     _                 c.170
Official grants                                  ..       ..        112        112
Official creditors                               ..       ..        268       225
Private creditors                                ..       ..        182          8
Foreign direct investment                        ..       ..         46         60             E: 313
Portfolio equity                                 ..       ..          0          0                                 0:29s
World Bank program
Commitments                                      0         0         99         60      A- I1RD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    0         0         61         66      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             0         0          0          0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                        0         0         61        66
Interest payments                                0         0          1          2
Net transfers                                    0         0         60        65
Development Economics                                                                                                         11/5/98
-62-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Financial Management
Audit compliance
1.    For the period ended 31 December 1997, KAFC's first period of operation, the corporate financial
statements were audited by Coopers and Lybrand. The auditor issued an unqualified opinion on the
financial statements. The auditor did not provide an opinion on the operation of the Special Accounts,
accuracy of Statements of Expenditure or the use of Bank funds.
2.     For the year ended 31 December 1998, the auditor's Terms of Reference were again limited to an
audit of the corporate accounts. This has been discussed with KAFC and Coopers and Lybrand and it was
agreed that, in addition to an opinion on the corporate financial statements, an opinion on the operation of
the Special Accounts, accuracy of Statements of Expenditure and the use of Bank funds will be issued
before the end of April 1999.
3.     KAFC was established as the primary mechanism for the delivery of the first rural finance project
i.e. KAFC was the PIU. The second rural finance project, leaves open the option of delivering credit via
the commercial banking sector. If commercial banks do join the project it would be inappropriate for
KAFC to continue to function as the PIU and hence it is necessary to maintain the records related to the
second rural finance project in such a way that they may be stripped out of the accounting system at a later
date, should it be necessary to form an independent PIU. KAFC's information systems are capable of
maintaining separate records for activities performed under the terms of the second rural finance project;
KAFC currently maintains records of transactions and balances associated with SFCOP as a separate
income/cost center within the accounting system.
Financial performance
4.    KAFC has operated for approximately two years. At 31 December 1997 the corporation had a
risk weighted capital adequacy ratio of 120 percent. At 31 December 1998 the ratio was 73 percent (based
on unaudited financial statements), well above the covenanted ratio of 33 percent.
5 .    The debt service ratio for the year ended 31 December 1998 was 1. 16, considerably below the ratio
of 1.5 stipulated in the subsidiary loan agreement. The corporation has placed an emphasis on building an
infrastructure capable of supporting its lending activities. Thus, current operating expenses are high in
relation to total income. Assuming the quality of the loan portfolio does not deteriorate, the debt service
ratio should improve as the loan portfolio grows.
6.     The quality of the loan portfolios of the commercial banking sector have been impacted by the
Russian financial crisis and the subsequent devaluation of the Som in the latter half of 1998. As KAFC's
customers borrow exclusively in Som, they have not been directly effected by the devaluation. The
corporation is maintaining the loan recovery ratio above 80 percent. The covenanted limit is 75 percent.
7.     The corporation has a highly liquid portfolio of assets and, subject to clarification of the terms of
the subsidiary loan agreement, has no foreign exchange exposure.
8.    By its nature, an agricultural finance corporation/bank has a highly concentrated loan portfolio.
KAFC has attempted to mitigate some of this risk by diversifying its portfolio geographically and by
-63-



segmenting the agricultural sector into arable farming, livestock and agro-processing. However, it must be
accepted that a poor harvest would have a very detrimental impact on primary producers and also effect the
downstream processing industry. The quality of KAFC's loan portfolio could deteriorate very quickly.
Financial systems
9.     The corporations underlying financial management systems and processes are generally robust,
being sufficient to safeguard the corporations assets and providing timely and accurate financial data.
However, there are a number of areas where improvements could be made. For example:
10.   There are two separate loans databases, one used by the loan department and the other by the
accounting department. Inherent in this approach to information management is the risk that these systems
contain conflicting data. Other members of the review mission have performed a detailed study of the loan
accounting systems and will present recommendations for improvements.
11.    There are some banking operations for which there are no clear written policies, for example there
are no written counterparty limits for deposits with banks.
Budgeting
12.   The Board of directors approves the annual development budget, which defines broad targets for
the size of the loan portfolio, staff numbers and fixed asset acquisitions. The more detailed income and
expenditure budget is prepared by the finance department. This is not reviewed by the Board, nor are
amendments to the budget which are made during the year. The development budget is not updated to
reflect changes in the detailed budget.
13.    The finance department prepares, using a spreadsheet, a weekly forecast of cash requirements. In
order to transfer to LACI disbursement procedures the budget system must be capable of forecasting the
corporations funding requirements, under each credit line, for the coming two quarters. It will be necessary
to integrate information from the loan accounting system (loan repayments), information regarding the
loans under preparation (loan pipeline) and information from the cost accounting system. Until the budget
system is upgraded and the format of the reports defined, the project should not transfer to LACI style
disbursements.
Staffing
14.    Staff in the accounting and finance function are generally well educated and experienced. All
senior staff are educated to university standard and have several years prior banking experience, either in
the commercial sector or with the NBK.
Internal audit
15.   The internal audit department currently comprises only one member of staff. It is envisaged that
this will rise to three before the end of 1999. The current staff member has considerable banking
experience but has no formal training in modern internal audit philosophy or methodology. An annual
audit plan has been developed and agreed with the executive director. Internal audit working papers are
comprehensive but focus solely on adherence to bank procedures and accounting issues.
-64-



R0z.-n  l he
Asse ntl of ProEWct or PMR-Bsc DisbUrsments
rinaciaI Manemel S swm:
I ture mw wmed the %incW mname  syiem Mating  t  this prvj.t. The ojeciv
oft. review was to dermlnekAtwter the pr t has in te an aduate ftnaria
mnanaement systm as requied by the (.A. under OlPlP W0M.
My review, which includd vidts to the project impkmendng ageny, was basd or. ib1
BaIs gdelLs Air 'Review oof flnncial Managemen System  and  ectsed ott Che
iof de projecVs  wountig sytm, inut cot, plwnin, budgeting and
rfncial reponing sytm ad selecWon of an auditor
I cfim that the pmie ctiisfles te Bk,s mainimum ftraioial maagement
rcqretnmts ad the prcfet has: in placen adeuuat ptojec fincial mnag;nmet
s-ystemthat a provit wihth reasnable asne.. acute and lirmly informaton on
the status of the project (PMR) as reqired by the DA thrPMR i3ad Disbursemwns.
However 1 do not reommend die prjct for PMR band disbursement Ns trnx
Sumrtsb  PMR's will be developed howcvr and fT  pjm could swtltch to PMR based
c-ks tsanments at a ler date subjet to hejcint approval oflhe IDA and the borrower-
Sisnedby M16chael Ciaseone:
Finaial Managcment S
(fas-OPR) -kLLLi!?1
NarneE flptiliv. 
-65-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Social Issues and Social Assessment
Background
The Second Rural Finance Project (RFP II) will increase the emphasis on reaching small farmers
and entrepreneurs begun under RFP I, primarily through group credit based on social collateral or group
guarantees. A Social Assessment (SA) was undertaken in the Kyrgyz Republic as part of project
preparation in order to derive lessons from RFP I on group lending, to find ways to strengthen group
lending mechanisms, and to increase access to rural credit for a much broader spectrum of small farmers
and entrepreneurs.
To prepare for the SA, and to provide some initial social inputs in project design, social scientists
on the Project Task Team carried out a rapid assessment during the preparation/pre-appraisal mission. The
main objective of the rapid assessment was to discuss with rural producers the strengths and weaknesses of
the structure and operations of existing small-scale credit programs. Some of the issues discussed included
obstacles to accessing credit, credit use and experience, problems in documenting and applying for credit,
the quality and quantity of institutional support available, and new approaches or components that should
be introduced in RFP II.
This annex discusses the small-scale credit operations of the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance
Corporation (KAFC), findings of the rapid assessment, the objectives and scope of the SA, findings of the
SA, results of the first stakeholder workshop, and implications for the project.
Small-Scale Credit
KAFC has two windows for group lending, the Small Farmers Credit Outreach Program (SFCOP),
and the Farmers Development Fund (FDF). In the SFCOP program, borrowers are required to form
Agriculture Consumer Cooperatives (ACCs), which must be registered in the Ministry of Justice, and must
provide collateral to secure the group loan. SFCOP credit officers travel to villages to meet with ACC
groups to explain credit requirements, and to review documentation and collateral, but do not give advice
on aspects of group organization or operation. KAFC credit officers do, however, maintain contact with
ACCs to ensure that they repay loans. Most ACCs appear to have a stable core of members, but some
revise their membership while applying for a second loan to weed out unreliable members and add new
ones. Although the ACCs are created as vehicles for credit, often by a local leader, KAFC officials believe
that they have potential as multi-purpose organizations. Associations of ACCs have already been created
in two rayons to assist smaller groups, but it is not clear to what extent this idea will develop more broadly.
The FDF program was designed to lend to low income populations who have few resources. It
requires no collateral, but it does require savings. The FDF is funded by IFAD, in association with the
Agricultural Support Services Project and is based on "social collateral," or group guarantees, in the form
of Self-Help Groups (SHGs). Group formation and training are supported by technical assistance from
UNDP. Self-Help Groups go through a two- to five-month program, during which members are required to
mobilize savings to lend to group members on a rotating basis. They also receive training in developing
business plans, marketing, accounting, and financial management, as well as group dynamics. Advisors
take members through a participatory group formation process, and help prepare and screen loan
applications. The first generation of groups completed the training and obtained loans- in the spring of
-66-



1999. FDF staff are pleased with the outcome, but because international and local UN Volunteers deliver
the technical assistance to groups, local people identify the FDF with UNDP rather than KAFC.
Rapid Assessment
The rapid assessment included field visits to ACCs and SFGs in Chui and Issik-Kul Oblasts, as
well as regional staff of KAFC. In Bishkek, the assessment focused on the rural credit experience of
UNDP, Mercy Corps and the Rural Entrepreneurial Credit Program, as well as staff of KAFC, SFCOP
and FDF. The first SFCOP group loans had not matured at the time of the rapid assessment, and the first
FDF loans had not been granted, thus most fndings and conclusions were seen as tentative and subject to
confirmation.
Given such caveats, the rapid assessment identified six principal sets of fndings regarding group
credit through SFCOP. First, the process of obtaining group loans is complicated and bureaucratic, with
transaction costs that are high both in absolute terms and in relation to the resources of small farmers and
entrepreneurs. The costs and time required to register an ACC, to document ownership, use rights and
financial status, and to negotiate with various offices, discourage all but a relative handful of the most
energetic and educated people from organizing groups. Second, the low level of information available
about credit requirements and conditions, even among members of ACCs, limits access to credit of those
who might meet eligibility requirements. Third, the language of the many required forrns is difficult to
understand, even for educated people, thus members of most groups are fully dependent on their leaders.
Fourth, prospective borrowers rarely have access to the kind of financial, technical and management skills
required to prepare viable business plans and carry them out, or to create viable ACCs. Fifth, the one-year
repayment periods are suitable for cropping, but not animal husbandry, thus many groups are required to
repay loans before they realize the benefits of the credit. Sixth, although villagers maintain many
traditional social bonds, which are promising for the creation of viable credit groups, the need for an
energetic, educated leader often results in the creation of groups based on patron-client relations and wide
social and economic differences between members, thus they are inherently unstable and unsustainable.
In contrast, FDF Self-Help Groups were established in 42 villages selected on poverty criteria. In
the selected sites, villagers were encouraged to form groups and were provided with significant
organizational and moral support with UNDP funding. The rapid assessment concluded that the SHGs are
more homogenous, better informed and more self-aware than ACCs. Nonetheless, it appeared that the
training period is perhaps too long and the support program is too extensive to replicate on a broad scale.
SHGs are required to establish a regular savings program, the proceeds of which constitute a revolving
credit fund. The savings thus serve both to strengthen group solidarity and mutual accountability and to
meet specific financial needs of individual members.
Social Assessment Objectives and Methods
The SA was designed to find ways to gain a better understanding of the local conditions, needs and
opportunities that could be used to develop a more effective, efficient group credit program for RFP II. It
focused on a number of specific questions regarding KAFC's group lending programs (SFCOP and FDF),
their clients, and potential clients. The principal questions addressed were as follows:
Based on experience so far, what social factors account for the success or failure of ACCs and, if
KAFCcontinues to promote ACCs, what should be    done to make them stronger and more effective?
What are the social characteristics and credit needs of prospective clients, especially small farmers
and entrepreneurs who cannot meet KAFC's collateral  requirements?
What are the attitudes of different target groups toward credit in general and toward KAFC in
-67-



particular, and how should these attitudes be factored into  KAFC's operations?
What changes-in organizational structure, procedures or field practices-should KAFC make to
enable it to reach a broader spectrum of prospective  clients?
In addition, the SA established a socio-economic baseline which can be used to monitor project
implementation and assess social impact.
The SA aimed to understand and give voice to the needs, aspirations and social and economic
constraints and opportunities of rural people in the Kyrgyz Republic, including income levels and sources,
standard of living, consumption patterns, access to goods and services, as well as standard social and
demographic characteristics. Given project objectives, the SA specifically focused on: credit experience
and use, credit demand, perceived and real access to credit, transaction costs of obtaining credit, the nature
of the interface between credit providers and rural people, strengths and weaknesses of existing group
credit arrangements, and the nature of social bonds that can promote or inhibit participation in group credit
schemes.
The SA was carried out by a team consisting of Kyrgyz social scientists led by the Team Director,
Anara Tabyshalieva, Institute for Regional Studies, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, with the assistance of an
external World Bank Consultant, Hermine G. De Soto, under the supervision of Stan Peabody, World Bank
Social Scientist. The team used two principal research methods to gather data to answer the questions, each
of which is described briefly below: a) focus groups; and b) a household demographic and credit history
survey of rural households. In addition, community economic profiles were developed in the sample areas.
The team was responsible for designing the sampling frame and survey instruments, conducting focus
groups, processing and analyzing data, reporting results, and formulating practical recommendations for
project design.
Focus Groups. Focus group methodology was used to understand the strengths and weaknesses of
a sample of ten ACCs by comparing the social characteristics and experiences of five ACCs that KAFC
staff consider to be "effective," with five ACCs that are considered to be "ineffective." Members of the
ACCs were brought together in order to discuss the history, social composition and gender status of their
groups, focusing on aspects related to: group formation, functioning, and leadership; preparation for
applying for group credit; transaction costs associated with obtaining and using SFCOP credit; perceptions
regarding the social costs and benefits of obtaining and using credit through ACCs; information constraints
and lack of information flow; initiative taking; issues of training for group formation; credit application
procedures, documentation and record keeping; timeliness of training and information flow, and
participation or lack of participation of group members.
Household Survey. Eight hundred interviews were carried out with heads of households in 16
villages in four oblasts: Osh, Chui, Naryn, and Talas. The survey obtained data on agricultural
information flow, demographic and socio-economic data of households, as well as information focusing on
the following project-related issues: credit history and needs; knowledge about credit sources and
requirements; interest and experience in group credit; individual and group experience with KAFC, ACCs
and SHGs; household activities; standard of living; access to credit and credit-related information;
aspirations; decision-making patterns within households; informal and formal group involvement; reasons
for wanting to join or not join a credit group. The data was analyzed to understand differences between
households related to income, resources, gender, age, nationality, clan, education, credit experience and
other variables.
Community Economic Profiles. Community-level data were gathered to develop profiles of the
-68-



communities to establish a social and economic context for the analysis of survey and focus groups. In
each community or neighborhood selected for the household survey, the Team prepared a profile of
economic activity consisting of a brief description of all enterprises in the area. For each enterprise, the
profile described the size of the workforce, products, market, sources of materials, access and use of credit
and other factors that would affect potential demand for the project or its impact. The profile also
identified any basic types of commerce or services that are needed in the community but not available
through existing enterprises. Finally, the profile assessed the extent to which the local economy is actually
privatized, as opposed to being dominated by major enterprises--agricultural or other-that persist from the
Soviet era, or their commercial or other affiliates.
After completing preliminary analysis of the field data, the SA Team conducted four stakeholder
workshops in different parts of the country. The objectives of the workshops were to inform and verify with
various stakeholders the research findings, to assist in developing communication channels to improve
information flow in both directions among local, regional, and national stakeholders, both by serving as a
model and by addressing the issues directly. Stakeholder participants included KAFC staff, ACC and SHG
members, potential clients, village council members, notaries, rayon and oblast officials and representatives
of different local and international groups involved in rural credit.
Social Assessment Findings
ACC Assessment. The analysis of ACCs, based on focus groups, confirmed much of the
impressions gained during the rapid assessment.
Credit Demand. The ACC Focus Group Assessment confirmed a high level of demand for credit at
the prevailing interest rates. A majority of the ACCs intended to apply for a second loan through the
SFCOP. For most farmers, the main objective of getting credit is to improve their living conditions and to
develop and improve farming operations. While farmers in the Chui Oblast would use credit for land
cultivation as well as for cattle breeding, farmers in Talas and Naryn Oblasts would use credit more for
cattle breeding, rather than land cultivation. However, farmers in all of the sample oblasts tend to prefer to
work with livestock, because they perceive livestock breeding to be more stable in regard to market and
price, less costly and more profitable, and less dependent on the weather. Discussants mentioned a wide
range of activities which would require credit, from vegetable processing, vegetable oil, facilities for
processing meat and canned goods, to repair shops, service stations, mills, sewing workshops, and tourism
development.
Credit Use. Most members of the ACCs, both strong and weak, used their loans as specified in the
business plan they submitted to KAFC, with exceptions such as substituting the purchase of one type of
animal for another. Some farmers were frustrated by the need to follow the business plan precisely,
however. In some cases, the result was a loss. For example, in Naryn members of an ACC planted
potatoes as planned, even though they preferred to use their loan to purchase cattle. Because of a bad crop
and unexpected competition, these ACC members suffered severe losses. Some ACCs apparently require
members to market their production collectively, which ultimately causes some disaffection. At the time of
the field study, nearly all ACC members were convinced that they would be able to repay their loans when
they were due, and expected to do so, especially because they were afraid to lose their homes, which served
as collateral. Actual experience verified such intentions. ACC repayments were high, although not fully on
time, and KAFC rigorously followed each loan. Although many borrowers felt that they did not achieve
significant profits from their first loan, most expected to do so withtheir second loan, when the up-front
transaction costs would be lower. In such circumstances, for example, the groups expected to invest in
machinery, such as tractors, during the second round.
-69-



Transaction Costs. Most ACC members felt that transaction costs were far too high. Major
expenses include fees associated with documenting house ownership and other certifications related to
establishing collateral. Most people also said they were frustrated by the poor information available, which
meant that they did not know ahead of time how much they would need to pay in fees, the types of
documents required, or the many steps required to obtain documents. Travel to the KAFC regional offices
and to Bishkek also consumed considerable time and cost.
Constraints. Potential borrowers lack information about how to obtain credit, especially during the
first attempt to do so. They know little about credit sources and requirements, up-front costs, fees, and the
time needed to process an application. They know even less about the many associated business aspects,
ranging from technical details of crop production to developing creditworthy business plans. As a result,
the application process is more prolonged, expensive and confusing than anticipated, and many loans were
granted too late in the agricultural season to achieve maximum benefits. Lack of markets, numerous
customs check points, and hidden travel fees greatly reduced profitability as well.
Collateral. In most cases, collateral consisted of a house, cattle or car of an individual ACC
member or relative, although some wealthier members provided the collateral for others. Younger villagers
especially found it almost impossible to provide physical collateral, thus many prospective ACC members
could not join the groups. The majority of ACC members preferred to obtain credit based on social
collateral, although it is clear that many who expressed this desire did not fully understand the concept of
group liability.
Social (Group) Bonds. Generally, people said they benefited from joining ACCs, primarily
because the group gave them access to credit. In many cases, group participation was seen as leading to an
opportunity to obtain higher levels of credit to purchase machinery during subsequent credit cycles.
Members claimed that they would support each other regardless of the economic activity they pursued.
Such members often reported that ACC membership was based on social bonds among clan members or on
vestiges of collective relations from the former kolkhozes and sovkhozes where they worked.
Summary. The ACC assessment concluded that ACC groups cover a wide spectrum ranging from
relatively unstable coalitions surrounding a local leader to nascent cooperatives, and that they are so new
that an attempt to compare the qualities of effective ACCs to ineffective ones must be seen as preliminary
at best. Nonetheless, a constellation of qualities appeared to emerge from the focus group discussions. In
brief, members of effective ACCs are relatively homogeneous in terms of wealth and social status: they
live in the same village, they have a long-term vision of the future of the ACC, they have common work
experiences, and they are relatively few in number. In contrast, members of the ACCs that were considered
to be ineffective were more heterogeneous, more deferential to the decisions of the leader, had few shared
responsibilities, less common work experience, and larger numbers.
Survey of Prospective Borrowers. In most respects, the household survey confirmed commonly
held impressions regarding rural attitudes toward rural credit. In addition, the survey provided a broader
picture of the rural context that demonstrates the magnitude of the challenge facing both rural people and
institutions like KAFC that try to serve them.
Credit Experience. Exceedingly few rural residents have experience with commercial credit. Only
five percent of the household sample said they had such experience. This is not surprising, given the nature
of credit during the Soviet period, which was confined to enterprises, sovkhozes and kolkhozes, and
generally ended up being a subsidy, rather than a loan, and given the collapse of most financial institutions
-70-



that previously served rural areas. In consequence, few people understand the nature of financial
institutions and the inherent obligations in commercial credit transactions. On the other hand, 21 percent of
the sample knew others who had received credit, and 15 percent had borrowed money during 1998, usually
from relatives or friends.
Half of the respondents who had received credit, had already repaid their loans by the time of the
survey. Respondents borrowed an average of 16,000 soms for a one-year period. Most had borrowed
through ACCs, and their loans were still not mature, thus this early repayment is a promising sign.
However, most of those who had repaid their loans claimed that they had made little or no profit. This
response appeared to be due to three principal reasons: first, the high up-front cost of documentation and
associated travel costs and fees; second, a high incidence of borrowing to purchase animals, which would
not be expected to yield profits until after the 12-month loan period; and third, crop losses due to the
weather or late receipt of loans.
Credit Demand. Although few people have direct credit experience, 40 percent of the respondents
said they badly needed credit and 80 percent said they would increase their production if they had access to
loans for inputs. Fifty-six percent of the respondents wanted to borrow at the prevailing interest rate to buy
livestock and fodder for their animals, or buy inputs for crop production (17 percent). Twelve percent said
they needed loans to cover family expenditures. These results confirm both the high level of demand and
the anticipated use of credit for productive purposes, rather than consumption.
Constraints. The three principal reasons why people who want credit are prevented from applying
for it are a lack of information, high transaction costs, and mistrust of financial institutions. Those who
had applied unsuccessfully for loans felt that the rejection was due to the difficulty they had in
understanding the process and to their lack of collateral. Only seven percent of the respondents said they
knew much about the process of obtaining credit; 25 percent said they knew a bit about the process; and 69
percent said they knew virtually nothing about credit. Almost 45 percent said they do not know where to
go to get credit. Twenty-five percent of respondants said they receive no information on credit from any
source.
The quality of available information is poor. The information given on television is very limited
and the reports of friends, neighbors and relatives is also limited and imprecise. Seventy-two percent of the
respondents had no idea about eligibility requirements for loans, and over 75 percent said they were
unaware of the amount of credit available. Almost half of the respondents (49 percent) had no idea what
sort of documentation is required to obtain loans, and when asked what is needed for a loan, only 7 percent
mentioned that documents are as important as business plans when applying for credit.
People in the rural areas mistrust institutions, especially those dealing with financial matters, both
because of the widespread collapse of such institutions and because new ones have yet to prove themselves
worthy of confidence. When asked which institutions or people they trust in financial matters, friends,
relatives and acquaintances ranked highest, with 23 percent, followed by state banks (19 percent), credit
foundations (10 percent) and KAFC (10 percent) The highest levels of "do not trust" were registered for
private banks (48 percent), private money lenders (44 percent) and credit unions (33 percent). KAFC has a
major challenge to overcome this high level of mistrust, but other evidence suggests that it is doing so
successfully.
Collateral. Of the limited number of respondents who had obtained loans, 40 percent had no
collateral, 22 percent had used their houses as collateral, 13 percent used vehicles and equipment, and 9
percent used cattle. Although virtually all rural households have houses, many are afraid to use them for
-71-



collateral. Many other prospective borrowers were prevented from using their houses as collateral because
they had no legal ownership documents and were dissuaded from obtaining the documents by the
transaction fees charged by state architecture agencies, the BTI and lawyers and notaries. In addition,
property is systematically undervalued for collateral purposes, which discourages people from using
valuable assets for this purpose. In addition, in many families it is difficult to get all members to agree to
sign collateral documents, even if the head of the household wants to do so.
Social Bonds. Forty-five per cent of the survey respondents said they would be willing to join
credit groups with relatives. A sizable proportion also indicated they would only work with people from
their villages whom they know and trust. Nineteen percent said they did not want to join credit groups at
all. Of those, 36 percent said they preferred to conduct their financial affairs individually. Thirty per cent
said they were afraid of the risk, and 22 percent had too little information or knowledge about how a group
would function to be able to respond positively. This indicates a large reservoir of potential credit group
members, which can be expected to grow as the experience becomes more common and the results more
visible.
Other Needs. Most respondents were surprisingly confident that they were prepared to use credit
effectively to increase production. Sixty-two percent said they have the technical information they need to
do so, and 74 percent said they had access to storage facilities or other means to hold their production if
they cannot sell it immediately after harvest. Respondents felt confident that they can manage animal
husbandry and marketing effectively without significant assistance. Nonetheless, marketing of most
products is seen as a major problem and many felt constrained by the lack of markets, in general, and
severely disadvantaged by the low farmgate prices they receive for their crops. Consequently, many rural
people think about establishing small-scale processing facilities to enable them to increase their share of the
value of their products. Despite their confidence in basic agricultural and animal husbandry, respondents
in the survey and in other discussions strongly expressed the need for assistance in preparing business plans
and managing farm finances.
Major Problems. The survey respondents reported that they are faced with many major challenges.
When asked what are the most important problems their families face, 42 percent said they did not have
enough income to buy basic food. Other responses were as follows: lack of employment (12 percent); lack
of gas, coal and wood for cooking and heating (nine percent); poor water supply (eight percent), and unpaid
salaries (six percent). When asked about salaries, however 59 percent of the respondents said that their
pensions and salaries were from one to three months late and 15 percent said payments were between four
and seven months late. One-fifth of the respondents have access to gas, while 91 percent cook with wood
and 40 percent with dung. The high use of wood has obvious serious environmental consequences,
manifest in the rapid disappearance of wood lots near villages. The use of dung for cooking is also a
problem, as it reduces the amount of organic fertilizer available for crops.
Summary. The survey strongly highlighted a number of problems in the countryside and
demonstrated that the prospects of benefiting from RFP II are very good. Demand is great, although
information levels are low; technical preparation is adequate, but major gaps remain in the
production/consumption cycle; and people are both disposed to using credit for productive purposes and to
joining credit groups to overcome collateral constraints.
Stakeholder Workshops
A major stakeholder workshop was held in Bishkek during the appraisal mission to discuss the
findings of the SA and implications for RFP II. Subsequently, workshops were held in Issik-Kul, Osh and
-72-



Jalal-Abad. Around seventy participants attended the first workshop, including survey respondents and
focus group participants from Chui and Talas Oblasts, Akims of the oblasts, officials, headquarters and
field staff of KAFC, Bank staff and representatives of NGOs and the media. Following presentations
about the project and the SA, the participants broke up into small groups to discuss salient implications of
the SA for their particular group: farmers, officials and rural finance people. The discussions were lively
and constructive, echoing a common objective to make credit available to a wide spectrum of rural people,
to empower them to obtain credit easily and use it effectively, and to instill the repayment discipline needed
to sustain the KAFC and other institutions that deliver rural credit.
Participants in the workshop strongly endorsed the principal concepts of RFP II and the work of
the KAFC. They enthusiastically supported the group credit program based on social collateral, or group
guarantees, and explored ways to facilitate the group formation process and strengthen groups. Many
specific recommendations emerged from the workshop, but three general recommendations were given
special emphasis. First, credit demand is high, but greatly tempered by a general mistrust of financial
institutions. Most rural residents lack access to credit and virtually no information is available to help them
determine where and how to objain credit. Second, KAFC is well known and more highly regarded than
other financial institutions; nevertheless, KAFC field staff should receive training in how to deal effectively
and respectfully with rural people. Third, the lack of credit is imnportant, but access to markets is
considered to be one of the greatest weaknesses in the agricultural sector; thus this issue should be dealt
with on three fronts: (a) through the training given during group formation to help borrowers understand
various market principles and their role in markets; (b) by encouraging some groups to specialize in
marketing to serve others; and (c) by strengthening linkages between RFP II and other rural initiatives that
have marketing components. Subsequent workshops ratified these conclusions, with some adjustments for
regional differences.
Project Implications
The Social Assessment, including the initial rapid assessment, focus groups, household survey, and
many formal and informal interviews, produced a number of important insights that have implications for
project design. Many of the implicit recommendations of the SA have already been incorporated into the
project; others will shape the group training and support activities and provide the basis for social
monitoring. The implications are discussed in terms of the "four pillars" of social assessment: context and
social development issues; stakeholders and participation, institutional analysis, and monitoring and
evaluation.
Social Development Issues. The principal social issues in the project context are related to rural
poverty and the social processes which either exacerbate the poverty of some groups or limit their access to
the financial and institutional resources that could help them improve their condition. The project will
address a number of important social issues although, inasmuch as its objective is to make rural credit
available on a sustainable basis through viable financial institutions, it will do so in ways that are
consistent with its mandate. The most important issues to be addressed are inequity, social exclusion,
social cohesion and social capital, which are discussed briefly in turn. In short, the group lending
component of the project is designed to reduce inequity and social exclusion by increasing social capital
and strengthening social cohesion.
EQuity. Inequity has increased in the rural areas with independence, the dissolution of sovkhozes
and kolkhozes, and the transformation and/or collapse of many of the enterprises serving the large farms
that were the nucleus of the agriculture sector. This inequity is manifest within rural areas, as mountainous
and remote areas fall farther behind other areas, and between rural and urban areas. Both normative and
-73-



actual inequity are inevitable in a market system, but much of the inequity in the rural areas of Kyrgyz
Republic is due less to market forces than to the mismatch between existing institutions and relationships
and emerging institutions, and between old institutions and a new clientele. On the one hand, people with
important roles in the previous regime and continuing ties to transformned old elites have used their positions
to consolidate a large share of productive assets from the unrestructured remains of sofkhozes and kolkhoz
es, which continue to be served by what remains of the input supply, financial, transport, storage and
marketing enterprises that were created to serve major farms. The regular KAFC window serves the
credit-worthy members of this group. On the other hand, the numerous independent farmers who liquidated
their land and property shares and established individual and group farms, are essentially adrift with few
and deteriorating resources and even fewer off-farm institutions to serve them. Most families rely on their
home garden plots for subsistence and struggle to find ways to make their farms viable. The small loan
window of RFP II will increase inequity by providing access to credit to farmers and entrepreneurs who
currently have no access, allowing them to invest in their operations. Access to KAFC loans must be
equitable, transparent and consistent, based on well defined eligibility criteria rather than position and
relationships. KAFC must therefore resist all attempts by officials and other influentialpeople to direct
credit to their relatives andfriends. A strong public information program is a critical element in
establishing transparency and accountability, thus it is will be a prominent defining characteristic of
RFP II.
Social Inclusion. As individuals and groups, small farmers are systematically excluded from
dynamic rural networks and resource flows. On the one hand, old established institutions were created to
serve large units, and have not adjusted to meet the needs of small producers, who remain relatively
isolated. On the other hand, emerging support institutions like KAFC, which are demand driven, inevitably
deal with the most aggressive, energetic and mobile rural people. For the most part, these traits are
associated with higher education levels, and both information flows and institutional demands accentuate
the advantages of educated people, further exacerbating the exclusion of the less educated. For example,
complicated application procedures require many forms of documentation, some of which consist of
registration and certification, which involve notaries, various officials, and sometimes even judges. Much
of the process is either already familiar to farm managers and other people with resources who, based on
prior experience, quickly learn how to move through the system. In addition, even seasoned bureaucrats
say that KAFC's application forms, which are only available in Russian, are unnecessarily hard to
understand and complete. Consequently typical Kyrgyz-speaking rural people with secondary school
education cannot complete the forms without help. K14FC will contribute significantly to increasing social
inclusion by simplifying loan application requirements, especiallyfor group loans, and developing
simple, straightforward application forms in Kyrgyz as well as Russian.
Social Cohesion. Evidence is mounting that as poverty becomes more widespread and severe in the
Former Soviet Union, there is a discernible weakening of traditional resource sharing and other social
support mechanisms based on the family, clan, and village. Newly poor families find themselves unable to
contribute to the communal pot, thus they withdraw from mutual obligations. An important aspect of
group lending, particularly that based on social collateral, is that it draws on forms of social solidarity and
strengthens them at the same time. This quality is very important for an institution like KAFC, which
depends on repayment for its survival, but it is even more irnportant for villagers and their future.
Although most credit groups form on the basis of family, clan or work bonds, it can be expected that group
membership will eventually become more selective as less dependable members are weeded out during
successive group loans. The group formation and training process will thus emphasize the importance of
group bonds and shared responsibility.
Social Capital. Small farmers and rural entrepreneurs in Kyrgyz Republic are virtually without
-74-



organizations that serve their needs or articulate their interests. Over time, these must emerge. SFCOP's
experience with ACCs, although limited, has demonstrated that there is great potential for credit groups to
develop into either multi-function associations or more specialized nascent enterprises. It is not clear to
what extent the need to formalize and register an ACC prompts members to develop a more comprehensive,
long-term view of their organizations than would otherwise occur. It is too early to determine whether or
not SHGs have the same potential to develop into organizations with more sophisticated, operational roles,
or to understand to what extent a formal registration process, such as that for ACCs, would foster the
development of a long-term vision for a group. Regardless of the roles they assume, the creation of mutual
obligation credit groups in itself enhances social capital in the rural areas. The group formation and
training process will thus focus on immediate issues related to mutual repayment responsibilities of the
credit groups, as well as potential long-term roles of such groups.
Gender. Gender does not appear to have a significant role in determnining access to credit either
through ACCs or SHGs, but distinct patterns appear to be emerging in different parts of the country.
There appear to be few, if any, ACCs with an all-women membership, although this is not uncommon
among SHGs. Focus groups revealed distinct regional differences regarding the actual and perceived role
of women in financial management. In general, both men and women claimned that women are more
conscientious about handling money than men and would be more likely to meet repayment requirements.
The perception was stronger in the south than in the north, and women in the south most frequently desired
credit for petty commerce or animal husbandry, rather than crop production. Credit access and use will be
monitoredfor gender differences, and group formation and training programs will be adjusted to meet
gender related demands as they emerge.
Stakeholders and Participation. RFP II has a number of stakeholders, ranging from KAFC to
individual and group borrowers and various officials. This section briefly assesses the needs and priorities
of major and minor stakeholders and describes the steps taken to ensure that key stakeholders participate
actively in project design and implementation.
Primary Stakeholders. RFP II has three primary beneficiary stakeholders: KAFC, individual
borrowers and group borrowers. As the principal institutional beneficiary, KAFC will obtain financial
resources for technical support to strengthen its capacity to provide credit to farmers and rural
entrepreneurs in a manner that is financially sound and sustainable. Individual borrowers directly benefit
from KAFC support. They appear to have the skills needed to articulate their needs and to meet the
collateral and business planning requirements of KAFC. This is demonstrated by the rapidly growing
demand and repayment. Group borrowers--members of ACCs and SHGs--are also growing in number, as
are their expectations for continued access to increasing amounts of credit.
Other Stakeholders. Officials at different levels, from the central government to villages, strongly
support project objectives. They want to make credit available to farmers and entrepreneurs, although their
enthusiasm may be selective, directed toward specific enterprises or individuals, or to increase production
of particular commodities. Other organizations also offer rural credit programs, often in specific areas and
for specific purposes, many of which receive external support. They can complement KAFC's role, but see
themselves as competitors whose interests may be jeopardized by KAFC's prevailing interest rates. Input
and machinery suppliers see themselves as beneficiaries, whose interests are served by increasing cash
flows in rural areas through KAFC, and as competitors who currently profit from in-kind seasonal loans to
producers. Staff of the BTI and other registration facilities, notaries and lawyers all profit from KAFC's
collateral documentation procedures, and may lose part of their respective incomes if the documentation
requirements are reduced, simplified or, in the case of group loans, abolished. Finally,- NGOs, such as
ACCs, are likely to increase in number and assume more important roles as the result of project
-75-



interventions.
Participation. On the one hand, participation in RFP II is relatively simple. The project is demand
driven, thus KAFC needs to make information available to realize the potential demand for rural credit. On
the other hand, poor information flows, insensitivity to the needs of particular groups and onerous
transaction costs have undoubtedly reduced effective demand, which will greatly increase once these
obstacles have been overcome. At the same time, however, there is a real danger that reducing current
constraints on demand could easily lead to a high level of demand that could overwheln KAFC and cause it
to lose credibility by appearing to be unresponsive. Given this caveat, the project's participation strategy
will consist of four elements, which are described below.
1. Remove constraints. A major element of the strategy is to reduce or remove obvious
constraints which disproportionately affect potential small borrowers. First, documentation procedures will
be simplified and made more transparent to remove uncertainties about transaction costs and processing
time. Second, simpler, user friendly application forms will be issued in at least two languages, increasing
access to less educated people. Third, the criteria used to decide whether or not to issue a loan will be
made public, and rejected applicants, both group and individual, will immediately be told why their
application was not accepted. Finally, loan decisions will be decentralized, speeding the process and
moving it closer to clients.
2. Make information available. A major effort will be made to prepare and distribute information
materials that will inform potential borrowers about credit requirements, documentation, procedures, costs,
loan conditions, interest rates, processing times, direct and indirect application costs and fees, appeal
mechanisms, support sources and other relevant issues. This information will enable people of all
education levels to know how to prepare for credit, where to go to get it, and what is expected of both
borrowers and lenders once the loan is issued. Such information will enable prospective borrowers to plan
effectively, to carry out the application process efficiently, and to estimate accurately the time and cost
required to get loans. The outcome of the information campaign will be to increase transparency, establish
accountability, generate reasonable expectations and empower clients to protect their interests and
articulate their needs. The campaign will be targeted to meet the needs of clients while keeping demand
from overwhelming KAFC.
3. Train and mobilize prospective clients. Regardless of the amount of latent demand, effective
and dependable credit groups will emerge automatically. It takes time and resources to create viable credit
groups that can serve both members and KAFC. A specific non-budget subsidiary or branch of KAFC will
be established that provides support to help villagers organize viable credit groups; to offer training to
develop solidarity and mutual accountability among group members and to help clients obtain the
information and other support they need to maximize the returns on their loans. This branch of KAFC will
work closely with other organizations involved in rural credit or rural support to share resources,
consolidate training and coordinate field-level initiatives to minimize overall costs and maximize synergy.
4. Monitor progress and address emerging issues. An ongoing monitoring program will be
established to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of information campaigns, to articulate lessons learned
from group formation and training programs, to assess the client orientation of KAFC field staff, to
document repayment patterns and problems and to identify opportunities to consolidate and improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of KAFC's group lending program. The monitoring will use regular reporting
channels as well as employ focus groups for more in-depth exploration of specific issues, as appropriate.
Institutional Analysis. In a short time, KAFC has established itself as an effective, credible rural
-76-



finance institution. It started as a focused, central organization and then started to establish a national
network of oblast and rayon offices, to which it is in the process of decentralizing responsibilities. As is the
case of most nascent institutions, KAFC is going through a development process that is characterized by
three major stages, each of which presents a different set of challenges. The first stage is that of
establishment, of defining itself, of simply creating a visible presence and carving out a unique role. This
has occurred. The second stage is to become effective, to actually accomplish its objectives, demonstrating
that it can carry out its chosen role. This is underway now, and is culminating with major increases in the
volume of individual lending, the growth of group lending services, with and without physical collateral,
and the serious pursuit of repayment, to collect all arrears. The latter step is especially important both for
the survival of KAFC as an institution and for the symbolic re-definition of the role of a credit institution
from that of a veiled deliverer of subsidies to that of a serious commercial organization. The next step is to
become efficient, to increase the volume of lending, the number and the loyalty of clients, the relative
impact of its investments while reducing unit costs.
RFP II will enable KAFC to move to the third stage by focusing on five tasks that are essential to
carry out. These are described briefly in turn.
1. Remove blockages and impediments. Some of the challenges that fall under this category are
internal technical and procedural changes; others require inputs from clients, some of which have been
discussed above. Among the technical changes are to establish an efficient MIS system, decentralize
decision making and cut processing time. Some other changes must be made in consultation with clients
and other agencies, based on a clear understanding of the needs and characteristics of clients, such as
reducing documentation requirements, simplifying application forms, issuing application forms in new
languages, standardizing decision-making criteria and providing feedback on rejected applications. Some
of these essential changes are in the process of being implemented.
2. Increase institutional capacity. KAFC can increase institutional capacity by working on three
fronts. The first front is largely internal, consisting of steps such as reorganizing and speeding internal
processes, increasing skill levels, improving commnunications and data management and, all of which may
lead to changes in staffing patterns by retooling or releasing employees. The second front is that of the
client. KAFC cannot become more effective and efficient unless its clients are better informed, better
organized, particularly for group lending, and more adept at dealing with KAFC's specific institutional
characteristics and requirements. The public information component and support to group organizing will
help on this front, and will need to be updated as clients become more experienced and more demanding.
The third front is the support system that enables clients to understand and articulate their credit needs and
to make good use of the loans they obtain. The support consists of two levels: the technical knowledge and
content needed to define productive and profitable investment opportunities, such as new cropping or
animnal husbandry practices, or an agro-processing facility; and the transformation of that knowledge and
aspirations into a viable business plan that justifies the loan requested. Such support must come from
outside organizations and/or investment projects, which KAFC should conscientiously mobilize. KAFC
can increase its efficiency only if improvements are made on all three fronts, as planned RFP II.
3. Establish clear, socially relevant selection criteria and apply them systematically. Experience
with group lending in Kyrgyz Republic and elsewhere has shown that there are a number of characteristics
which increase the likelihood that groups function effectively as intended, for the mutual benefit of group
members and the lending institution. For example, groups must be relatively homogenous socially and
economically; members must be from the same immediate area; and members should share experience or
other bonds; groups should mobilize resources regularly that serve common and individual interests, such
as a revolving fund based on individual savings. These criteria will be used both to advise prospective
-77-



group members during the formation and training process, and to enable KAFC staff to ascertain the
relative creditworthiness of applicants. They are included in the KAFC Operations Manual.
4. Improve the KAFC/client interface. KAFC is a new style organization with a relatively young,
enthusiastic and dedicated staff and a growing field presence. Staff appear to have a good understanding of
the needs and challenges of their individual clients. Nevertheless the SA identified a clear need to improve
the interface between the KAFC and its clients, especially those in credit groups. A number of references
in focus groups and individual interviews led to the conclusion that small farmers characterize KAFC staff
as young, urban oriented and frequently condescending. More specifically, in field discussions some
KAFC staff treat credit group members as children, rather than clients. In many locations, KAFC is the
only active rural credit organization, thus farmers will tolerate such behavior. When competition develops,
however, clients will be less tolerant and may turn to another institution that is available. To reduce the
likelihood that KAFC will lose customers to new competition, field staff must develop new ways to relate
to small farmers, either by fiat or by broadening their own experience. The latter is most likely to have a
lasting effect, thus KAFC has a vested interest in pursuing that approach. To increase exposure of KAFC
staff to rural clients, and to increase their appreciation of the strengths and challenges of their rural clients,
KAFC field staff will participate in some group formation training exercises, as well as receive special
in-house training designed to increase their communications skills.
5. Develop links to other resources. The impact of KAFC loans depends on many factors,
ranging from the weather to choices in technology and the existence of marketing channels. Many of the
factors are beyond the control or the technical competence of KAFC staff. Nonetheless own their success
depends on improving their clients' ability to deal with such issues. Consequently, KAFC will develop
direct and indirect links with other resource people and institutions working in the rural sector. This will
help clients increase access to the skills and information they need to make good use of KAFC loans.
Immediate opportunities exist to link with other rural initiatives supported by the Bank, NGOs and other
organizations for joint training efforts and for technical resources. Other opportunities should also emerge
in the process of creating the CDF.
Social Impact Monitoring. RFP II is expected to increase access to rural credit to a wide
spectrum of rural people, enabling them to make productive investments that will increase their incomes
and standard of living. Small scale loans will be issued through credit groups which have immediate
responsibility for repayment and long term potential to evolve into broader or more specialized rural
organizations. Social impact monitoring will focus on a number of aspects which are expected to change
over time, reflecting the multi-dimensionality of social aspects of the project. The major topic areas, and
the types of changes to be assessed are as follows:
Role of groups. Do groups meet their collective and individual obligations? Do groups acquire
new roles and meaning consistent with their original mandate, or on other dimensions?
Benefits. Does the credit have a discernible impact on household incomes
Satisfaction. Are members satisfied with their function and impact?
Leadership. What leadership characteristics promote or impede group success?
Membership. What qualities of members promote group success? What impedes success?
Social Bonds. Does the type of social bond (family, clan, work) affect group success?
Access. Are groups perceived to increase access to credit and/or other resources?
Impediments. What external factors promote/impede group formation and cohesion?
Interface. To what extent does the quality of interface with KAFC affect group success?
Context. What is the influence of the village social context on group success?
Linkages. Does group membership increase access to other resources, information or
-78-



opportunities?
Graduation. Does group lending progress to individual lending over time?
-79-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Environment Assessment
Summary of Assessment Results
A. Environmental Review - Summary
Introduction
An environmental review of the RFP II was carried out in March 1999. The purpose of the review was to
meet the requirements of the World Bank as set out in Operational Directives 4.01 for financial
intermediary projects. Of particular concern was the possibility that loans could be provided for activities
that would include World Bank category projects A and B.
The Environment
. general
Kyrgyz Republic is characterized by a mountainous environment with the Tien Shen and Pamirs
comprising approximately 90 percent of the country. It has a temperate continental climate. The country is
comprised of 22 different ecosystems, most of which have been affected by man's activities. The
mid-mountain meadows, mid-mountain steppes, and the glacier and sub-glacier ecosystems together make
up about 45 percent of the country's area.
. biodiversity
A number of the 22 ecosystem types are very fragile and threatened by human activity, prirnarily
over-grazing. The country's forests have been drastically reduced over the last few decades with the fir and
juniper forests having declined by over 35 percent and the pistachio and almond forests having been
reduced dramatically. Biodiversity of Kyrgyz is substantial and the country displays a species richness of
above average for the Central Asia Region.
. land use
Agriculture is important to the Kyrgyz economy and accounts for about 30 percent of GDP and
approxiniately one-third of all employment. Irrigated agriculture covers 80 percent of the arable land and
pasture resources are extensive, covering 8.8 million ha of land or about 45 percent of the country.
. environwental issues
There are two main environmental problems: one is related to natural forest and pasture land degradation
which results in soil erosion and a modified hydrological regime. The other is related to soil and water
pollution as a result of agricultural activities and mining. Both degradation and pollution contribute to the
loss of biodiversity and destabilization of the general environment.
Policies and Legislation
Kyrgyz Republic has a number of pieces of legislation that relate directly or indirectlyto the environment
-80-



and which are taken into account during project planning. Key legal instrumentation is the recent
environmental legislation which was read in Parliament on 10 March 1999. Essentially, any project that
will have an effect on the environment must be examined by the Ministry of Environmental Protection
(MEP) and it has the mandate to carry out all assessments. The MEP approves all development projects
and has the responsibility to ensure that mitigation is undertaken in the case of potential impacts. Fourteen
other pieces of relevant legal instrumentation are in force.
Project Assessment
. general
All loan applications were placed into nine types or categories for purposes of assessment. These included:
. crop production - pedigree seed purchase
. crop production - fertilizer
. crop production - pesticides*
. crop production - land preparation
l livestock production - pedigree stock for breeding
l livestock production - animals for finishing
. market facilities and amenities
. processing
. procurement
* to date, no application for a pesticide loan has been made
benefits
The project provides a number of benefits, the primary one being the contribution to the alleviation of rural
poverty by improving the socioeconomic conditions of small farmers.
. impacts
A number of potential impacts from the nine types of projects for which loans would be provided have been
identified. All impacts are relatively insignificant with the exception of those which could be expected from
the use of pesticides, if loan applications are made and loans granted for these chemicals. Impacts related to
pesticides would include risk to human health, contaminated soil and water systems, modification of
ecosystems and loss of biodiversity. Many loans are provided for the purchase of livestock for finishing.
The significant potential impact related to this type of loan would be the effect that increased stocking
could have on ground cover, soil erosion and waterway sedimentation. As well, anirnals that are grazed
near forested areas could pose a threat to an already dwindling forest cover. This is particularly important
since the nation's forests represent 50 percent of the country's biodiversity wealth.
Other impacts from other types of projects supported by the loan program will include water
contamination, soil contamination, soil loss, overgrazing, and social disruption.
. cumulative impact
The potential cumulative impact that the project could have on the environment is far more important than
all of the individual impacts. Each project is relatively small and full impacts from any one project, even
-81-



allowed to go unchecked, would not be very significant. However, a number of projects in the same area
could have a significant cumulative effect on the environment. An example would be the approval of a large
number of loans within one particular watershed for livestock purchase. The cumulative effect of small
amounts of soil loss through overgrazing on downstream water quality could be significant - even possibly
at the international level since the country is landlocked and its river systems all flow into adjacent
countries. The same effect could hold true for projects involving the purchase of fertilizers and other
chemicals, and for a number of agro-industry projects within the same area.
. mitigation
Mitigation for all impacts can be achieved at little or no cost. Most mitigation would require management
input advice from extension workers and others in order that the project is implemented in an effective and
environmentally acceptable manner.
Mitigation for the cumulative impact will be achieved through the mitigation of all of the small impacts
created by the individual small projects.
. residual impacts
Residual impacts are those impacts that remain once all mitigation has taken place. These are the trade-offs
for the benefits to be realized through the project. Assuming that full mitigation is carried out, residual
effects will be few and insignificant. Only those projects involving seed purchase, fertilizer purchase,
pesticide application, land preparation and agribusiness are seen as to have some residual effect but the
effect will be insignificant with the possible exception of projects involving pesticide application.
Environmental Management
. personnel
KAFC will be hiring an environmental specialist in the near future. The specialist will be responsible for all
environrmental concerns, but particularly, to ensure that: projects have the environmental permits in place,
projects which require EAs have a proper EA conducted by the licensed bodies; EAs are adequate;
mitigative measures are carried out; no unforeseen environmental impacts occur. He/she will monitor
project activities on a random basis.
. management procedure
KAFC has received a blanket exemption (for EAs) from the MEP on a number of types of projects. All
projects, however, require the loan applicant to obtain a permit for the proposed project from MEP. The
environmental permit is only one of many different permits that the applicant must hold, and without the
required permits in place KAFC will not consider the application. The onus for ensuring that all permits are
in place rests with the loan applicant. If MEP indicates that an EA is required for the project, the proponent
must obtain the services of one of the country's licensed bodies for conducting EAs. The EA requires MEP
approval. Detailed environmental assessment guidelines are available through MEP. Until recently
guidelines from the former Soviet Union were in use, however, a similar set has been recently prepared for
Kyrgyz. The Kyrgyz guidelines include, in addition to the contents of the former Soviet guidelines,
provision for notifications of intentions to the public, and provisions for the application of the guidelines to
policies, plans and programs.
-82-



The environmental specialist of KAFC will ensure that all project loan applications have the required
permit in place. He/she will also ensure that the project does not require an EA under the guidelines of
MEP. He/she will determine whether or not the project proposal will fall into Bank Category A or Category
B project list. Once the loan has been approved and is dispersed, the environmental specialist will monitor a
selection of projects to ensure that mitigation is being carried out, and that there are no unforeseen impacts.
The specialist will liaise with both the MEP field staff and head office staff, particularly when it is not clear
whether or not an EA will be required.
. Category A and Category B Projects
During the first phase of the project (RFP I) there were no Category A or Category B projects. The only
possible project applications in the future that would fall into these two categories are for the purchase of
pesticides (Category A) or for small scale agro-industries (Category B). In the event that an application to
support a project that would fall into either of these categories is made, KAFC would ensure that the
applicant has conducted an EA that would meet national EA guidelines and has been approved by MEP. To
determine whether or not the application is for a project of either category, the KAFC environmental
specialist will consult the World Bank operational directives in order to make a determination. The sectors
for each category are quite clear, however, making this determination will require some judgment since the
O.D. suggests that: ... it is the extent of the impacts, not the sector, that determines the extent of the
environmental assessment and, hence, the category. He/she may consult with the World Bank if the
categorization is questionable. An example of a questionable categorization would be the possible use of
pesticides. Although for Category A, one of the projects is .... Manuficture, transportation, and use of
pesticides or other hazardous and/toxic materials ... If a loan is being used for the purchase of several
tons of pesticide for use on a large farm, then an EA would definitely be required. However, if a small
farmer requires five kgs. of pesticide only, an EA probably would not be required. However, instruction in
the handling and application of the pesticide, from a safety point of view, should accompany the loan.
. monitoring
The KAFC environmental specialist will be responsible for preparing monitoring guidelines and
procedures, and ensuring that effective monitoring is carried out on the projects for which loans have been
provided. Due to the large number of projects, a random sample of projects will be monitored to ensure that
mitigation is carried out and that there are no unforeseen impacts. In addition, World Bank supervisory
missions could also conduct spot monitoring on a few randomly selected projects.
. training
KAFC currently has no capacity for environmental analysis or environmental assessment. However, the
Corporation will be hiring an environmental specialist in the near future. The specialist, along with the loan
officers of KAFC, will receive environmental training. Training for the loan officers will focus on a set of
environrental guidelines that have been prepared, to help the officers identify potential impacts that
projects may have on the environment, and generally to make loan officers more environmentally aware.
Training for the environmental specialist will be more intense and will cover such topics as legal
requirements for EAs, World Bank EA guidelines, and recognition of the Bank's category system and how
to categorize projects.
B. Environmental Checklist
An environmental checklist consists of two sets of tables to be used as a guide by KAFC loan officers. The
-83-



first set is a sub-set of nine tables (Tables 1-9) - one for each loan type. These indicate potential impacts,
consequences of impacts, suggested mitigative measures, and related legal instrumentation. The second set
is a single table (Table 10) which indicates the level of potential impacts by agricultural activities on
environmental components.
Table 10: Agricultural Activities Affecting Different Components of the
Environment
Horizontal Axis
1. increase cropping areas*  6. dryland farming       11. sheep dips
2. soil cultivation        7. increased livestock     12. forage production
3. irrigation              8. confined livestock      13. storage
4. chemical fertilizers    9. open grazing            14. transportation
5. 2esticides, herbicides  10. nomadic cattle rearing  1 15. orocessinn
Micro climatem                           __ __  1                   _    _
Air qalit___y                                        ____    
Water quality - chemical                          mr                m in
Water quality - physical                             m  m
Soil qualiwy - chemical                                       i
Soil quality physical                   -        m      I _
Soil Erosion                    M                       m
Soil Fertility                  m           m
Salinization
Waelossgofnatrleog   tm                                    n
Increased surface drainage    |miwt                     
|Groundwater losses _ _._lmi_m  mt m    ____ 
fSurface water losses_                   t L1b~           
IBiodiversity loss__  p m I m  
Loso naua  coyterms             l       ||I               m    ml   <     
Natural forest loss                                        m
Other natural vegetation       ___m                              in
Weed invasion                   m                    n,I         I
Invasion ofnew s ecies          m                    i i   I   |
Biodiversit loss                                 I              I
Modif. of natural ecosystems   3        4  kh    m h  I
heed indiatsiareaivlnhg  poeta imac
Hum an h    ealth and safetively m r   pe   mimpact
Food contamination            i}||1                   
IIncreased flooding                 m                                  7N     |]l  
Increased mudflows/ landslides ||m      
IDesertification   '.LII Lml     
h - indicates a relatively high potential impact
m - indicates a relatively moderate potential impact
I - indicates a relatively low potential impact
-84-



MAP SECTION



704                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,                                                               EA0 
KAZAKHSTAN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./ A\-ly
KAZAKHSTAN                                                    TDJ,bI      )
vi  \ v   5          J         g    g                   m                   W                 w                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A
Ok X X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T X#s#gS, T-                                                          40-gW 1 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
T.     A J I K I 5 T, A     WR    Lt    X                               wo S ID    E                                                                                                                       W.Y
RURAL FINANC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E IIS.;X
I  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
   NALETENA CAPTAES                      2000-2999
.A/  ;   \ R A-~ SeF9t5FSATUON] |                 \                                                           l l ~--            RAYON xDISTRICT) BOUNDARIES          15I0-199
rARRAAAJI      G  - KAZKAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                  OBLAST (REGION) BOUNDARIES              0
| < X . > -;slE   g da A    C -  ! MOs00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50-9
~~~~A~~~~~A [A                                                                       - - -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
|  0 X : v    P&    i t  t    - > ~ --~ /   | [                             ^                                                           l                                         KILOMETERS
1       1~ @>          JXEYRSYZ REP 7               |__|_______0_50                                                                                                                                 __100_______|
$ * * (_ *_ l l r~~~~~~~~~hi,    m             Lp w rdcd6y t M.p De.iqn Unil ofThe World B.An. | 
|IStAMIC                                                  Th. b-d-i-- id T-K-  As                                                                                                 0        25        O       75       1O
4 REP1LtIC ys _.- C H I N A  l  l  on ,his m,p do no7 im7ply o7 Ahe p1rsofThe WorldSonf GAoup any -  T                                                                                             MILES
JUNE 1999



