           Document of
         The World Bank




                                      Report No: 34848

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (IDA-32590)

              ON A

             CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.0 MILLION

             TO THE

         KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

             FOR A

  SECOND RURAL FINANCE PROJECT




         December 29, 2005

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = KG Som
                                       KGS 1 = US$ 0.024
                                          US$ = KGS 40.96

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 -    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
ASSP -   Agricultural Support Services Project
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GOK   -  Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
IFAD -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
KAFC -   Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
MCA -    Micro-credit Agency
MIS   -  Management Information System
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
PMU   -  Project Management Unit
RAS   -  Rural Advisory Services
RFP I -  First Rural Finance Project of IDA
RIAS  -  Rabobank International Advisory Services
RNFSP -  Rural Non-Financial Service Providers
SDI   -  Subsidy Dependence Index
SHG   -  Self-Help Groups
UNDP -   United Nations Development Program

                              Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director      Dennis de Tray
                             Sector Manager       Juergen Voegele
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Eustacius Betubiza

                                   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                Second Rural Finance Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Credit Line Implementation Results                                      36
Annex 9. Summary of Beneficiary Impact Assessment                                37
Annex 10. KAFC Institutional Development Results                                 44

Project ID: P064585                                                  Project Name: Rural Finance 2 Project
Team Leader: Eustacius N. Betubiza                                   TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Finance 2 Project                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-32590
   Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Animal production (74%); Micro and SME finance (18%); Crops (4%); General industry and
                            trade (4%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Rural markets (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Improving labor markets (P); Rural non-farm income generation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/27/1999                                     Effective:                           03/31/2000
     Appraisal: 03/30/1999                                         MTR: 12/15/2001                  02/25/2002
      Approval: 06/24/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/KYRGYZ AGRICULTURAL FINANCE
                                           CORPORATION (KAFC); THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/PROJECT
                                           MANAGEMENT UNIT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johanness Linn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Kevin M. Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Eustacius Betubiza                             Hoonae Kim
ICR Primary Author:             Sandra Broka; Eustacius N.
                                Betubiza


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project's development objectives set during appraisal were: (a) strengthen and expand a sustainable
rural financial system that will serve a broad range of beneficiaries, including small-scale farms and rural
entrepreneurs; (b) contribute to the reduction of poverty in rural areas by supporting the development of
viable economic activities (on- and off-farm) to generate income; and (c) expand access to credit for those
with limited collateral.

Key performance indicators to measure achievement of development objectives included: (a) increases in
institutional lending to rural clients; (b) soundness of portfolio quality with minimum repayment rates of at
least 85 percent; (c) demonstrated improvement in the profitability of major agricultural commodities as
estimated by random sample analysis; and (d) demonstrated increases in income levels in rural areas. Other
measurable indicators of project performance include: the diversity of activities financed (in terms of
number, wider outreach of clients, and types and sizes of sub-loans); improvement in business support
services, e.g., availability of information, preparation of business plans, and other consulting services for
small-scale entrepreneurs in rural areas; and improvements in performance and sustainability of groups as
demonstrated by on-time repayments and repeated borrowings by same group.

Background and Context

The Government of Kyrgyz Republic requested IDA's assistance in the form of the Second Rural Finance
Project (RFP II) to follow up on the successes of IDA's First Rural Finance Project (RFP-I). The RFP I
(Cr.29590-KG) of SDR 11.9 million was approved in June 1997 and closed in 1999. RFP-I was designed
at the time when limited institutional and human resources were available to support the transition from a
centrally-directed command economy to a market economy and the newly emerging capital markets were
insufficient to meet the needs of a market system rapidly developing in response to enterprise privatization.

Soon after the country's independence in 1991, the state-owned Agroprombank, which was the only
provider of finance to the agricultural sector in the Soviet era, collapsed, leaving the newly established
private farms without any source of credit. The equally newly established commercial banks were too
weak, too small and generally unequipped for, or simply not ready to take on, the challenges of agricultural
lending. It was against this backdrop that RFP I established a non-bank financial institution ­ the Kyrgyz
Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC) in 1997, to serve the emerging farmers and rural enterprises.
KAFC was set up as a stop-gap measure, and was to be absorbed into the banking sector once the
commercial banks moved into the rural areas, at which point KAFC's mission would be considered
accomplished. By the end of the RFP I, KAFC had reached about 14,000 individual borrowers and over
2,300 borrower groups.

In order to consolidate the gains made under RFP-I, and further strengthen the rural financial system by
expanding and diversifying the agricultural lending base and clientele, the Government of the Kyrgyz
Republic (GOK) requested the follow-up project, RFP II. The project was to support the strengthening of
KAFC and further develop the practice and usage of social collateral to facilitate access to financial
services in rural areas. It was envisaged that commercial banking would play a key role in providing
financial intermediation services for rural areas during RFP-II. However, due to external and internal
shocks of the 1998 financial sector crisis, the banks focused on consolidating their portfolios, not
expanding them into lending activities in rural areas. It was, therefore, agreed to review the participation of
commercial banks at the Mid-Term Review.




                                                      - 2 -

The project was consistent with the Bank Group's country assistance strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic,
which emphasized the establishment of long-term, sustainable growth to reduce poverty by, among other
things, deepening a fiscally sustainable rural finance system for providing critically needed capital for
production inputs and capital investment to foster economic growth in the agricultural sector and
accelerating the development of private sector activities in rural areas. The proposed project was also
consistent with the strategic objectives of the Comprehensive Development Framework for which the
Kyrgyz Republic was a pilot country.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two major components: (1) a Rural Finance Component, which included a
Commercial Credit Line for individual loans and a Special Credit Line for group loans; and (2) an
Institutional Development Component, which included capacity building support for KAFC, technical
assistance to develop social collateral-based group lending, and support for development of small-scale
rural business development services.

1) The Rural Finance Component

    (a)    A Commercial Credit Line of US$ 14.0 million equivalent was to be made available to KAFC
           and other commercial banks as and when they became eligible, for on-lending for working capital
           and investment activities under commercial terms and conditions. The credit line was focused on
           rural areas, and was to support a wide range of agricultural and non-agricultural business
           activities, including primary agricultural production, processing, storage, packing, marketing,
           and other off-farm rural income-generating activities with proven positive cash-flows supported
           by sound business plans.

    (b)    A Special Credit Line of US$ 4.3 million was also made available for a Small-Farmers Credit
           Outreach Program designed to provide credit for group lending based on social collateral, thus
           allowing those with inadequate physical collateral but sound bankable projects access to credit.
           KAFC's two separate group lending windows, started under RFP I, were to be consolidated.

2) The Institutional Development Component

    (a)    Comprehensive capacity building in KAFC (US$ 2.0 million) was to be supported in order to
           improve KAFC's operating efficiency and ensure that it could survive as a self-sustaining
           financial intermediary. This effort was to include: (i) improving KAFC's capacity in loan
           appraisal; financial, asset and liability management; accounting and internal audit and control;
           and other areas covering the full spectrum of KAFC operations as well as personnel management
           and training of staff; (ii) simplifying loan processing procedures and streamlining legal and
           documentary requirements for loan processing; (iii) upgrading KAFC's management information
           system (MIS); (iv) adopting a corporate governance and supervisory structure that would give
           KAFC full autonomy in its lending activities; and (v) developing medium-term corporate
           strategies and business plans with financial projections.

    (b)    Other Technical Assistance (US$ 0.5 million)

           (i)    TA and training to develop Group Lending based on social collateral was to be



                                                     - 3 -

                  supported in order to reach a wide spectrum of rural people, including those near and
                  below the poverty line.

           (ii)   Rural Business Development Services were to be developed aimed at establishing
                  institutional capacity to promote small-scale economic activities in the rural areas through
                  the dissemination of information on a range of private sector services in rural areas,
                  including information on available credit funds, preparation of business plans, marketing,
                  and others.

The design of all components was clearly linked to the Project's development objectives described above.
The capacity building program was designed to strengthen the still nascent primary rural lender (KAFC) in
order to deepen its outreach and ensure its own sustainability. The judicious combination of a credit line, in
acknowledgement of the paucity of credit resources in the country, with the suitably adapted capacity
building program, in recognition of the prevailing weak human resource base, as well as the focus on the
financial products more adapted for the poor, were appropriate for ensuring the achievement of the poverty
reduction and sustainability objectives. The Project built on the experience of the previous Bank's
operations in the sector, most notably the First Rural Finance Project, particularly with regard to targeting
capacity building activities and streamlining the group lending financial product. The design was simple,
yet comprehensive in its approach.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised to any significant degree. The Rural Business Development
Services sub-component was dropped and the funds reallocated to the commercial credit line, since another
World Bank financed project (the Agricultural Support Services Project), together with co-financing by the
Swiss Government, both of which came soon after RFP-II inception, more comprehensively supported a
similar activity (the Rural Advisory Services) to which KAFC clients had equal access.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The ICR team rated the quality at
entry as satisfactory, based on: (i) the consistency of project objectives with the measures set forth in the
CAS, and in particular, the deepening of a fiscally sustainable rural finance system, and the support of
effective, well-targeted, and commercially viable private investments to generate increased employment and
income, reduce poverty, and improve the living standards of the rural population; (ii) the relevance of the
project's components in fulfilling the project's objectives as well the components' coherence; and (iii) the
simple project design that was commensurate with the implementation capacity in the country at the time.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The project's development objectives of: (i) strengthening and expanding a sustainable rural financial
system that will serve a broad range of beneficiaries, including small-scale farms and rural entrepreneurs;
(ii) contributing to the reduction of poverty in rural areas by supporting the development of viable
economic activities (on- and off-farm) to generate income; and (iii) expanding access to credit for those
with limited collateral, was satisfactorily achieved in as far as:
(1)     KAFC, the leading lender to rural areas, has achieved full sustainability and has established an
extensive rural network, an example that some commercial banks are beginning to emulate;
(2)     an additional 15,600 small farmers and rural entrepreneurs have been able to access loans for
investment and working capital through the project's participating financial institutions, with increments in



                                                      - 4 -

net household revenue ranging from US$ 545 equivalent, to US$ 4,069;
(3)      the social collateral-based group lending methodology was refined rendering it more effective, and
some 3,500 individual beneficiaries with good business ideas, but without sufficient collateral, have gained
access to financial services.

(1) KAFC, the leading lender to rural areas, has achieved full sustainability and has established an
extensive rural network, an example that some commercial banks are beginning to emulate.

The project has succeeded in strengthening KAFC, which is now the primary agricultural lender,
accounting for 90 percent of all agricultural lending. As at end-June 2005, KAFC's total assets amounted
to KGS 1.89 billion (US$ 46.1 million), its net loan portfolio amounted to KGS 1.65 billion (US$ 40.2
million), and its net capital amounted to KGS 576.1 million (US$ 14.1 million), or 31% of capital,
compared to the 12% statutory requirement, making KAFC a very solid institution. The loan repayment
rate stood at 98.3%. In fact, KAFC is also one of the largest financial institutions, accounting for more
than 50% of all non-bank financial sector assets, and 10% of all banking sector assets as of August 2005.

Through rigorous credit appraisal and high efficiency in its operations, KAFC has consistently been turning
a profit since 2001 (US$ 0.5 million equivalent in 2001, and US$ 2.1 million equivalent at the end-2004).
Its rate of return on equity was 18.34% in 2004 (over six times the annual inflation of 2.8 percent, which
allows KAFC to preserve its capital base), its return on assets was 5.55%, and its operational self
sufficiency was 167.04%. Its Subsidy Dependency Index (SDI) stood at an unprecedented negative 40.0%
at project closing and has been negative since 2002. An SDI of zero means that the institution has achieved
full self-sustainability, and the more negative an SDI, the greater the independence from subsidies.

In terms of institutional development achievements, KAFC has highly qualified and committed staff, who
have a wealth of knowledge of how to work with KAFC's core clients, i.e., small farmers and rural
entrepreneurs from whom KAFC enjoys unprecedented trust. During the Impact Assessment of August
2005, over 95% of KAFC clients expressed satisfaction with KAFC's attention to client, professionalism,
accessibility, and types of credits offered. With its nationwide network of 11 full-fledged branches and 47
representative offices, KAFC has a significant presence in rural areas, which also ensures KAFC's
proximity to its clients.

By project's end, KAFC was serving approximately 34,300 active clients (including the 15,600 using
RFP-II funds) with an average loan size of US$1,500 equivalent. KAFC's micro-finance window had over
3,500 clients with an average loan size of US$280 equivalent. Also, by Project's end, Ineximbank, a
private commercial bank had joined the project as a participating financial institution, mainly serving
medium-sized farms and rural businesses, providing larger loans averaging US$48,000. In addition, some
micro finance institutions have emulated KAFC's pioneering rural credit activities and are rapidly
expanding in this market niche (e.g. Bai Tushum with a loan of portfolio of US$4.7 million, a significant
proportion of which is in crop production, livestock breeding, dairy farming, agro-processing, and other
services). Clearly, a robust rural finance system has emerged offering a continuum of financial services,
from very small loans that are increasingly coming from the budding microfinance institutions, to medium
sized loans for small and medium-sized farmers and rural entrepreneurs like those offered by KAFC, and
somewhat larger loans offered by Ineximbank for larger rural clients. Each institution seems to have
discovered and settled in a market niche where it has a comparative advantage, resulting in a system that
serves a wide range of rural entrepreneurs.

(2) An additional 15,600 small farmers and rural entrepreneurs have been able to access loans for
investment and working capital through the project's participating financial institutions, with


                                                     - 5 -

increments in net household revenue ranging from US$ 545 equivalent, to US$ 4,069.

An Impact Assessment of the project was conducted in the summer of 2005, which showed a positive
impact achieved at the household level through increased production levels, increased incomes, faster new
technology adoption rates, and overall higher likelihood to start a new business than among non-borrowers
(see Annex 3 for details). The quantitative analysis showed that among KAFC clients, the households
relying on livestock for income received the highest incremental annual income, on average KGS 26,140
(US$638). By contrast, among non-client households the figure was much lower, averaging KGS 10,580
(US$258), i.e. 41% of that of the borrowers' incremental revenue. Net income from crop production
amounted to approximately KGS 22,340 (US$545) among clients and KGS 10,080 (US$246) among
non-clients, i.e. 45% of that of clients. Qualitative assessments showed similar trends. Overall, 65 percent
of active clients and 70 percent of former clients reported improvement in their well-being. Forty seven
percent of respondents associated this reported improvement with greater cash inflow, followed by 25
percent who related it to increased consumption of more food produced at the household level. By contrast,
only a third of the total households among non-clients felt that their well-being had improved.

(3) The social collateral-based group lending methodology was refined rendering it more effective,
and some 3,500 individual beneficiaries with good business ideas, but without sufficient collateral,
have gained access to financial services.

Social collateral-based group lending methodology was strengthened to ensure the economic viability of this
financial product. With co-financing assistance from the UNDP's Poverty Alleviation Program, the project
succeeded is developing a good quality Group Lending Manual, which is applied by KAFC in its everyday
work with borrower groups. This work allowed KAFC to combine its two group lending windows (a
social-collateral based program and a collateralized group lending program) which existed under RFP I into
a more sustainable group lending instrument.        As a result, 3,500 individual beneficiaries with good
business ideas but without sufficient collateral have had access to financial services by using the group
lending methodology.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Rural Finance Component (At Appraisal: US$ 20.4 million, of which IDA US$ 14.0
million; At ICR: US$ 21.94 million, including IDA US$ 14.90 million)

Overall Component Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The Component significantly contributed to the strengthening of a sustainable rural finance system through
(i) widening and deepening the outreach of KAFC's lending services to small-scale farmers and rural
entrepreneurs; and (ii) making inroads in enlisting the hitherto-fore uninterested commercial banking sector
by securing the involvement of Ineximbank, one of the major private banks in the country. The resources
available to the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) from the RFP II allowed US$ 24.5 million
equivalent to be on-lent during the project implementation period, reaching 15,600 new beneficiaries, of
which 20 percent were women, with loan recovery rates around 98%.

Sub-Component 1.1          Commercial Credit Line (At Appraisal: US$ 16.1 million, of which IDA US$
11.0 million; At ICR: US$ 21.50 million, including IDA US$ 14.46 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The sub-loans under this sub-component financed a wide range of working capital and investment



                                                      - 6 -

opportunities under commercial terms and conditions. The beneficiaries of the credit line had commercially
viable and bankable projects with adequate collateral, adequate financial rates of return, and demonstrated
repayment capacity.

The project design envisaged disbursement of the credit line through KAFC and, at a later stage, through
commercial banks when they become eligible. The readiness of the commercial banks for participation in
the project was to be revisited during the Mid-Term Review. While three potential participating commercial
banks were identified for possible participation at various stages during project implementation, they were
unable to meet the eligibility criteria, and hence could not participate in the project. At project closing, only
one commercial bank, Ineximbank had met the eligibility criteria. It disbursed 9 sub-loans totaling US$
430,000 equivalent under the project, after signing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Ministry of
Finance in January 2004.

The two PFIs succeeded in finding their distinct market niches in servicing credit needs in rural areas.
KAFC focused on servicing small farmers and micro-and small rural entrepreneurs, as confirmed by the
average loan size of US$ 1,500 equivalent. Ineximbank, with the average loan size of US$ 48,000
equivalent, concentrated on servicing small- and medium-sized farmers and rural entrepreneurs.

The entire portfolio financed rural micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, predominantly agricultural
production (crop production, livestock, poultry production and other less-tradition types of agricultural
production), which accounted for 90 percent of the total lending, followed by purchase of equipment,
building and construction, and trade ­ each about 3% of the portfolio. Rather insignificant amounts
financed services, handicrafts, and other types of activities. The loans to sub-borrowers were provided at
prevailing market rates: at project closing the average interest rate (for loans above one year) for the
sub-loans financed under the project was around 17 percent versus 19 percent in the banking sector. This
difference is largely explained by KAFC's high administrative efficiency of 7.5 percent, compared to over
10 percent in the rest of the banking sector. Eighty five percent of the disbursements was made for
investment loans, which was in full compliance with the 80 percent : 20 percent rule of investment loans
versus working capital loans (in amount) set under the project. Average maturity of loans under the project
was 2.8 years. The recovery rate in both institutions has been very high during their whole participation in
the project. At closing, KAFC's commercial loan portfolio had a recovery rate of around 98 percent, and
100 percent in Ineximbank (most of the loans are still very new). Detailed information is in Additional
Annex 8.

Sub-component 1.2: Special Credit Line for Small-Farmer Credit Outreach Program (At Appraisal:
US$ 4.3 million, of which IDA US$ 3.0 million; At ICR: US$ 0.44 million, 100% IDA)

Rating at ICR: Moderately Satisfactory

Although the sub-component's disbursement was significantly lower that projected at appraisal, KAFC's
pioneering activities and refinement of the lending methodology inspired other, more specialized, micro
lenders to expand their rural lending portfolios and its new wholesale financial product has promoted the
emergence of locally owned, grassroots microfinance organizations. As a disbursement condition for the
group lending credit line, KAFC combined the two group lending windows (a social-collateral based
program and a collateralized group lending program) which existed under RFP I, creating a Self-Help
Group (SHG) lending program, based on social-collateral, and developed a Group Lending Manual with
co-financing assistance from the UNDP's Poverty Alleviation Program. UNDP has assisted in the
formation of more than 1,500 SHGs, of which 1,260 still continue to operate.




                                                     - 7 -

During the project period, KAFC financed 498 groups (about 3,500 individual beneficiaries) for the total
amount of KGS 39.6 million (US$ 0.97 million equivalent), including repeated loans, with an average loan
size of about US$ 280 equivalent. One of the reasons for such a relatively modest number of beneficiaries
was a delay in the implementation of the sub-component. Implementation started only in 2002 due to the
additional time it took to develop the Group Lending Manual, mostly due to difficulties of finding a good
international consultant.

An additional positive development, which was implemented outside the framework of the project's design,
but closely linked to the project activities, relates to the wholesale creditor function developed by KAFC
with the assistance of UNDP's Poverty Alleviation Program. Nineteen of the groups borrowing from
KAFC have been transformed, with UNDP's assistance, into micro-credit agencies (MCA), registered
according to the Law on Microfinance, which was adopted in 2002, and provides the legal framework for
the Kyrgyz Republic's very active micro-finance industry. This development has allowed KAFC to expand
its range of lending products by officering a new product ­ wholesale financing to financial institutions, as
the MCAs borrow from KAFC and retail loans to their clients. UNDP will continue its group lending
support, focusing on the upscaling activities of the existing borrower groups, including transformation of
these groups into MCAs. An Operating Manual for lending to MFIs was developed by KAFC in 2004.

Component 2: Institutional Development (At Appraisal: US$ 2.5 million, of which IDA US$ 1.0
million; At ICR: US$ 1.89 million, including IDA US$ 0.16 million)

Sub-component 2.1: Capacity building support for KAFC (At Appraisal: US$ 2.0 million, of which
IDA US$ 0.5 million; At ICR: US$ 0.89 million, including IDA US$ 0.13 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

The component provided the framework for extensive technical assistance activities to further strengthen
KAFC. A number of activities were carried out under this sub-component, in particular:

(a)      Comprehensive institutional strengthening technical assistance was provided to KAFC,
including the development of a medium-term business plan, streamlining and improving the efficiency of
KAFC's operations, and preparation for its eventual transformation into a commercial bank. The funding
allocated for the component was replaced by the TACIS-financed technical assistance project in the amount
of EUR 750,000 (about US$ 750,000 equivalent), which reduced the need for the Government to borrow
for technical assistance under the IDA funded project. The Terms of Reference for the assignment, which
were very comprehensive and included a range of activities with the aim of improving KAFC operations,
had the ultimate objective of preparing KAFC for obtaining a banking license. The TOR were commented
on and approved by the World Bank.

KAFC, under the Technical Assistance Project implemented by Rabobank International Advisory Services
(RIAS), the technical assistance arm of the Netherlands-based Rabobank, achieved a number of significant
results, including: (i) developing of its medium-term corporate business plan 2004 ­ 2010, including a
specific action plan for transformation of all its operational aspects to become a full-service rural
commercial bank; (ii) further strengthening of KAFC's management team through training and realignment
of responsibilities, to enable them to run a growing, more complex financial institution; (iii) strengthening
of selected aspects of KAFC operations, such as improved lending skills of loan officers, including loan
appraisal and monitoring, risk management, internal audit, improved asset and liability management,
personnel management and recruitment strategies, new product development and marketing strategies; and
(iv) developing and finalizing of the processes and procedures for launching deposit operations, which


                                                      - 8 -

KAFC as a credit-only institution does not currently provide. KAFC hired new staff experienced in deposit
operations, as well as put in place the physical infrastructure necessary to launch deposit operations when
it eventually receives a banking license.

(b)       Development of Operational Manual, training of lending staff, and new MIS. RFP II had
several disbursement conditions for the credit line component including: (i) completion of an Operational
Manual acceptable to IDA, (ii) completion of the first round of new training programs for lending staff, and
(iii) final selection of the IT/MIS.

In order to fulfill these conditions and be able to access the credit line, KAFC accomplished the following:
(i) in close cooperation with the World Bank, prepared an Operational Manual, which includes all aspects
of KAFC operations, such as asset liability management, personnel policies, etc., not just Lending
Operations, and is periodically updated as necessary; (ii) the training programs agreed upon during the
negotiations, which have been completed ­ KAFC staff has participated in a number of training programs,
organized both by international and local organizations. Staff training is of high importance to KAFC
management, and their efforts on this aspect should be highly commended; (iii) the banking MIS, which
was procured and installed at Headquarters and in all branches by end of 2004. The MIS, in addition to the
base modules, includes a Credit Module (including some customization, such as procedures for collateral
takeover on KAFC's balance sheet), a Deposit Module, Financial Reports, a Financial Calculator, and
Limits Control. The MIS includes on-line access communications between KAFC's headquarters and all
branches. All related staff training has also been completed.

(c)       Strengthening of KAFC governance. KAFC Board, as a 100 percent state owned institution,
includes representatives from the Government, as well as the private sector, with the Ministry of Finance as
the Chair of the Board. However, cognizant of KAFC's strong growth, and the need to guide KAFC as it
becomes a more complex financial institution on the eve of privatization and transformation into a
commercial bank, the Government made a decision during 2004 to strengthen KAFC's board with
prominent banking and other professionals. The list of the proposed candidates for KAFC Board includes
professional bankers, lawyers, leading entrepreneurs, and representatives of donor organizations. This new
Board, to be appointed by early 2006, shall steer KAFC through the privatization process, which should be
completed by the end of 2006. In addition, KAFC is audited by renowned international audit firms,
including PriceWaterhouse&Coopers, KPMG, and Deloitte&Touche.

Sub-component 2.2: Other Technical Assistance (At Appraisal: US$ 0.5 million, 100% IDA; At ICR:
US$ 1.0 million, including IDA US$ 0.03 million)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

TA and training to develop group lending, based on social collateral. The component has succeeded in
developing a group lending methodology, which is being successfully used by KAFC to carry out group
lending.

Substantial technical assistance was provided by UNDP's Poverty Alleviation Project. As mentioned
above, under RFP I, KAFC had two group lending windows: a social-collateral based methodology, and a
collateralized group lending methodology. The two approaches had very different success levels (social
collateral-based lending had much higher repayment rates), and were rather confusing to be run in parallel.
Thus, one of the conditions for access to the group lending credit line under the RFP-II was the
development of a single sound group lending methodology.




                                                      - 9 -

The UNDP Project provided three-fold technical assistance: (1) co-financed international technical
assistance to develop a unified social-collateral based group lending methodology and manual; (2)
supported group formation for subsequent financing by KAFC (by the end of the project, they had assisted
in the formation of over 1,500 groups); (3) trained group formation consultants, including those of the
Rural Advisory Services (RAS), to ensure that relevant capacity remains after the UNDP project closed in
September 2004.

It has to also be noted that, with the help from UNDP, KAFC took a step towards establishing village
banking methodology in the country. The Microfinance Law of July 2002 allowed for the creation of,
among other types, micro-credit agencies (MCA), which could borrow external resources and on-lend to
their members. UNDP created 9 such MCAs, on the basis of the strongest borrower groups, to which
KAFC issued loans, thus building its financial services portfolio.

Development of small-scale rural business development services. A network of Rural Advisory Services
(RAS) was created in Kyrgyzstan in late 1990-ies under the World Bank's Agricultural Services Support
Project, which was implemented in parallel to the RFP II. The decision was, therefore, made, that rather
than create and train a separate institutional capacity within KAFC to promote small-scale economic
activities in rural areas, instead cooperation should be developed between KAFC and the RAS, to ensure
that KAFC's clients obtained the required business support services. During project implementation,
KAFC's clients were more likely to use rural advisory services than non-borrowers, which attests to the
collaboration between the providers of financial and non-financial services.

Component 3: Project Management (At Appraisal: N/A; At ICR: US$ 0.1 million, 100% IDA)

Rating at ICR: Satisfactory

This component financed the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) within the Ministry of
Finance, which was responsible for the overall implementation and administration of the project. It also
created specialized capacity in Kyrgyzstan in the implementation of rural finance projects, and later the
RFP II PMU became the Credit Line Management Unit of a subsequent World Bank-funded Agri-business
and Marketing Project, where it is now responsible for managing the implementation of the credit line
component and financial management of the whole project.

The PMU was created in 2003, mid-way through the project, since, according to the PAD, KAFC was to
both perform the functions of a PMU and be a participating financial institution, until other financial
institutions joined the project. KAFC had successfully combined these two functions under the First Rural
Finance Project, and in view of KAFC's gained skills and experience, the project design did not include a
separate PMU during RFP-II's initial years.

However, once Ineximbank joined the project as a PFI, it was deemed unsuitable for KAFC to maintain the
dual functions, and it was subsequently agreed between the Government and IDA to set up an independent
project management unit under the Ministry of Finance to perform the project management function. The
PMU was adequately staffed, both with respect to the number of staff and skill mix, and was fully
equipped to perform its work. The PMU staff benefited from training, such as financial management and
project monitoring.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because of the demand driven nature of the investments, no NPV or ERR was computed at Appraisal. The
ICR computed a series of budgets for most predominantly grown crops and livestock raised, as


                                                    - 10 -

well as other typical investment models for the various activities financed by the project, the
results of which are presented in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
As indicated in Section 4.3 above, a series of activity budgets were analysed, the results of which are
presented in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial, most significantly on the Kyrgyzstan's
financial sector participants. During the project implementation period, Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance
Corporation (KAFC), under its dynamic management, continued to grow at a very brisk pace, and has
developed into one of the biggest financial institutions in the country. The technical assistance provided to
KAFC within the framework of the project allowed it to institutionally strengthen and prepare to make the
leap of becoming a full-service commercial rural bank. The streamlined lending operations, improved
policies and procedures and enhanced skills of the staff resulted in more efficient and appropriate services
to the small farmers and rural micro- and small entrepreneurs who form KAFC's main client base.

Ineximbank was the only commercial bank willing and able to join the project. It benefited from being
introduced to the concept of lending to farmers and rural entrepreneurs, as a way to diversify its loan
portfolio and expand its client base. With the Kyrgyz Republic's banking sector continuing to grow and
willing to expand its operations, the banks will have to gradually downscale their activities and become
more active in the more small-scale rural and agricultural markets. The project showed to the banks that
such lending can be done profitably and on a commercially viable basis.

The project also led the way in rural micro lending by showing how it could be viably developed,
particularly through the group lending methodology.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
IMF restrictions on external debt ceilings led to the need to extend the project implementation period by one
year. The IMF program has successfully helped the Government to manage the country's external debt by
reducing it from 130 percent of the GDP in mid-1990-ies, to less that 90 percent of GDP at the end of 2004
by, in part, restricting the amount of external debt the country borrows (in effect, disburses) per year. It
that context, the last US$ 2.7 million of the project funds could not be withdrawn during the first half of
2004 in time for the project closing date of June 30, 2004, and the project had to be extended to June 30,
2005.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In April 2000, the Government's Decree "On timely and effective carrying out of the spring field works in
the agricultural sector in the year 2000" promised interest rebates to farmers on loans received from
KAFC for the spring planting season of 2000, which led to the suspension of withdrawals from the RFP II
by IDA. The Project had become effective, but no withdrawals had taken place yet. IDA put forward
specific conditions to be fulfilled by both the Borrower and KAFC before lifting the suspension. The
suspension was lifted in October 2000, following compliance with the required conditions. The
Government's action had ultimately two consequences: (i) the implementation of the project was delayed by
seven months due to the suspension; and (ii) KAFC's portfolio quality declined in the following year due to
the increased lending volumes to farmers expecting the interest rate rebates (the lending volume tripled
from the previous year), which resulted in increased work-load, with which the KAFC staff could not cope.
However, KAFC quickly regained its footing, and portfolio quality improved thereafter. One major


                                                     - 11 -

positive outcome out this unfortunate incident was that Government thereafter allowed KAFC to run its
affairs independent of Government, despite the fact that it's wholly owned by Government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The achievements of the project to a large extent were due to the commitment, skills and implementation
capacity of the project's implementing agencies, which initially was KAFC, and subsequently the PMU
located in the Ministry of Finance. KAFC has shown a lot of initiative to mobilize support for its
institutional development, both within the framework of the project and outside. The PMU has very
efficiently facilitated the project's implementation through the two PFIs, and provided an effective
communication link between the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project costs at closing are US$ 23.93 million equivalent, compared to US$ 22.90 million equivalent at
Appraisal. IDA project funds amounted US$ 15.2 million (SDR 11.1 million), of which the credit line to
commercial borrowers was US$ 14.46 million, co-financed by the PFIs in the amount of about US$ 3.4
million and beneficiaries in the amount of US$ 3.6 million equivalent, as set forth by the Credit Guidelines.
The group loan credit line amounted to US$ 0.44 million. TACIS's contribution of EUR 750,000 (approx
US$ 750,000), which is reflected in the project costs, was not official co-financing, but separate technical
assistance to support the project objective of folding KAFC into the banking sector. UNDP's Poverty
Alleviation Project contributed about US$ 1.0 million, to finance technical assistance for group lending
sub-component of the project.

No major reallocations were made among the project components or disbursement categories.

  Project Costs, US$ million equivalent
                                               PAD                                         At ICR
 Component                               Total Indicative Bank Financing Total Costs            Bank Financing
                                         Costs
 Component 1. Credit Line                      20.40            14.00                21.94             14.90
 Component 2. Institutional                    2.50              1.00                1.89              0.16
 Development
 Component 3. Project Management                                                     0.10              0.10
 Total Project Costs:                          22.90            15.00                23.93             15.16




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rating at ICR: Highly Likely

The project outcome of an increasingly robust rural financial system is highly likely to be sustained on
account of many factors. First, KAFC ­ the principal agricultural lender ­ is a very solid institution that
has achieved operational and financial sustainability, has high profitability, high repayment rates, a highly
skilled and motivated work force, a wide rural network that gives it the needed client proximity, and is
offering services that are greatly appreciated by a very loyal clientele.

Second, its short-medium term financial prospects are positive. KAFC is largely funded by long term
loans (i.e. credit line proceeds), portions of which are beginning to fall due for repayment (albeit gradually).
However, this loss of funds will, in the medium term, be compensated for by KAFC's substantial retained


                                                     - 12 -

earnings, and equally important, by fresh credit lines from other institutions. Currently, KAFC has a
US$10 million credit line from ADB, and a new credit line of US$2 million has freshly been approved by
EBRD. KAFC will also be participating in the recently launched, World Bank funded, Agri-Business and
Marketing Project's credit line. In the medium term, though, KAFC will have to be transformed into a
bank, so that it can mobilize deposits in order to continue growing its loan portfolio, as well as allow it to
offer a wider array of financial services to its clients. Plans are well advanced to this effect, and its
privatization is expected to be concluded by end 2006 (see further discussion below under "Transition
Arrangements").

Third, KAFC has successfully mitigated agricultural risk, despite its large agricultural loan portfolio.
KAFC's success in rural lending, in spite of adverse weather patterns in some of the years since its
creation, can be attributed to lending to small scale farmers whose farms tend to be well diversified
(simultaneously growing different types of crops, e.g. fruit trees, potatoes, cotton and wheat, as well as
raising livestock) such that production losses on a particular farm activity are absorbed by the farmer
through sale proceeds from the unaffected activity, and not by KAFC.

Fourth, other financial institutions are starting to warm up to rural lending, emulating KAFC's pioneering
example, and are beginning to build up their rural portfolios as they gradually master the requisite skills
demanded by lending in a rural milieu. These institutions are solid as well. For example, Ineximbank has
also developed quite substantially during the project period, to become one of the biggest banks in the
country. During 2004, the bank's assets grew by 140 percent, to US$ 40.7 million equivalent by the
year-end (largely through capital injections), and its overall loan portfolio grew by 185 percent, to reach
US$ 24.7 million. Its net profit at end-2004 was US$ 0.83 million, up more than five times from
end-2003. Although primary agricultural production is less than one percent of its total loan portfolio,
Ineximbank's involvement with agriculture is expected to grow among the medium-sized farmers, although
its primary focus will be in agro-processing. The processing industry accounted for 18 percent of its total
portfolio in 2004. It will be also be participating in the World Bank funded Agri-Business and Marketing
Project (discussed further below). The micro finance sector is also making significant in roads into rural
lending, and the trend is expected to continue.      Undoubtedly, the country is going to witness a steady
growth in rural lending in the Kyrgyz Republic in the coming years.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As indicated above, KAFC's long term growth would be greatly facilitated by transforming into a
full-service bank. In fact, RFP-II's Appraisal Document envisaged KAFC's ultimate privatization and
transformation into a commercial bank. KAFC's privatization process was initiated in the second half of
2005 and is expected to be completed by end-2006. The banking license, by agreement with the National
Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic, will be part of the privatization package, to ensure that the new owners buy
a full-fledged bank rather than a non-bank financial institution. KAFC is expected to be sold to institutions
with extensive experience in rural lending. Privatization will allow not only the injection of new capital to
service KAFC's growing clientele, but is expected to lead to the introduction of new, more sophisticated
systems and procedures to allow KAFC to be able to effectively cope with the expected strong growth.
Institutions which have so far expressed interest include Rabobank, Aga Khan Foundation, EBRD and
IFC. IDA has decided to remain involved throughout KAFC's privatization process, and has solicited
assistance from FIRST Initiative, a financial sector consulting consortium in London, UK, in this matter, to
ensure that KAFC's privatization is done through a transparent, fair and competitive process.

Ineximbank, the project's participating commercial bank, has expressed interest and subsequently been
qualified for participating in IDA's newly-launched Agri-business and Marketing project. It is expected
that under the new project, Ineximbank will consolidate its experience in working with agricultural-related



                                                     - 13 -

enterprises, as well as learn several new agricultural finance products, such as contract farming and the use
of warehouses as risk-mitigation tools in lending to agro-processors. These new products will help the
participating banks improve their risk management capacity and further facilitate their lending to the
agricultural sector.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall World Bank performance during preparation is rated Satisfactory. Project preparation was very
quick, over a period of five months, following the request from the Government, when, by the time of the
MTR in February 1999, KAFC had already disbursed over 70 percent of the IDA credit under RFP I.
Hence, RFP II was processed quickly and presented to the Board in June 1999. Such efficient processing
was only possible due to the Government's responsiveness and facilitation, which is discussed below.

The project was designed to address the immediate needs for investment in rural areas, at the same time
further strengthening the main provider of the financial services to small farmers and rural entrepreneurs in
rural areas, and making an attempt to expand sustainable rural finance system by including the commercial
banking sector. While overall the project objectives were relatively ambitious, the project design team
should be commended for the simple and straightforward design of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance with respect to supervision activities is considered satisfactory. The Bank's team
experienced only one change in team-leadership in 2003. However, the other members of the team
continued to work on the project supervision team, which ensured continuity and institutional memory,
which contributed to the project maintaining its satisfactory rating at all times. The team visited the country
on a regular basis, at least semi-annually, except for a nine month gap following the events of September
11, 2001 (terrorist attack on New York City). The composition of IDA missions in terms of skills and
expertise for effective supervision and providing qualified assistance to the implementing agencies as and
when required was suitable.

One issue that should be pointed out with respect to the Bank's performance, relates to the Bank's handling
of the issue of KAFC's transformation into a commercial bank. The Bank's responsiveness to the
Borrower's request to consider issuing the banking license to KAFC in order to permit it to become a
full-service commercial bank and start mobilizing deposits to replenish its capital base, was less than
adequate. It took a very long time for the Bank to build a consensus and agree on a joint recommendation
supporting the transformation, which cast the Bank in bad light vis-à-vis the client, who was very
responsive.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's participation in project preparation is rated satisfactory. The government was fully
committed to the project objectives, and confirmed that through a range of measures it took to facilitate the
preparation of RFP II, thus enabling the Bank's team to prepare the project in five months. The
Government established a committee comprised of officials from the key ministries and departments, which
coordinated the preparation of RFP II, and carried out all locally required actions and obtained the
necessary endorsements in order to present RFP II to the Bank's Board on schedule. The Government



                                                    - 14 -

reaffirmed its commitment to continue reforms in the agricultural sector and credit-led sector reform.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Although the Government
changed substantially during the "tulip revolution" of March 2005, the new Government honored the
commitments made by the previous government. Thus, it continued to be fully committed to the project
objectives, including the privatization of KAFC, and facilitated project implementation at critical moments,
without directly interfering in the operations of KAFC.

The only exception was the ill-conceived Decree on government's interest subsidies of early 2000, which
led to the suspension of the project for four months. Through this experience, which was difficult for both
sides, the Government and IDA learned to be more vigilant about the original spirit and development
objectives of the project and the ultimate long-term goal of developing a sustainable rural finance system.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of both KAFC in its role of an implementing agency and the PMU at the later
stages of the project, was very satisfactory, and much of the project success and outcome is due to
performance of these two organizations. Both institutions are adequately staffed with qualified and
experienced professionals, who know the sector very well, as well as the Bank's policies and procedures.

KAFC's performance was especially strong during the period when it combined the roles of the PMU and
PFI during the first half of the project. It effectively performed both functions, but also kept them
sufficiently apart to ensure that the reports prepared by KAFC as a PMU presented an appropriately
independent picture on KAFC as a participating financial institution. KAFC maintained separate staff as
the Project Management Unit.

The PMU proved very effective in dealing with the multitude of the project-related tasks, including
financial management, disbursements, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, reporting and safeguards.
The PMU of the RFP II has been hired by a follow-up Agribusiness and Marketing project, to implement
the Credit Line component and perform financial management and disbursement for the whole project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Creation of a "greenfield" financial intermediary takes a long time and requires significant concerted
efforts from the donors and owners and staff of the financial intermediary. KAFC was created in 1996
under IDA's RFP I as a rural financial intermediary, to fill in the void in the rural finance sector in the
Kyrgyz Republic. It turned its first profit in 1999, but it was not until 2001 and onwards that KAFC's
financial situation became stable and it was profitable every year. Once a decision is made to create a new
financial institution, the stakeholders should be prepared to invest sufficient time in getting the institution
up to speed. The almost 10 years of the World Bank's involvement with KAFC was divided between two
projects, RFP I and II. In retrospect, it was good, as preparing RFP II allowed to review the decisions made
under RFP I, implementation progress, appropriateness of the instrument, procedures, and make the
necessary adjustments. During the implementation of RFP I, KAFC was able to find its market niche, i.e.,
servicing farmers and rural entrepreneurs, and during RFP II, the technical assistance and overall support
to KAFC became more focused, driven to make KAFC successful in implementation of its mission. At the
same time, during the RFP I, as KAFC started to develop, it was also important that KAFC's stakeholders
saw the continuity and long-term commitment of the World Bank to have a follow-up RFP II.


                                                     - 15 -

Judicious combination of Technical Assistance and funding works very effectively in credit-line based
institution development. Technical Assistance for institutional development, capital base and loanable
funds have been key to start-up and growth of such a successful institution as KAFC. The Government was
willing to contribute the capital to ensure KAFC could carry out lending operations in the situation of
increased demand, as well as channel the loanable funds from the international financial institutions.
Extensive technical assistance was provided both in the form of training and hands-on support to staff by
the World Bank and a range of other TA providers, to ensure that KAFC maximizes the benefits of the
financial support it was receiving. The technical assistance subjects included business planning, how to
ensure that KAFC's organizational structure, systems and processes accommodate the growth of the
institution, training of the functional staff, such as accountants and loan officers, and training of KAFC
management in headquarters and branches.

Effective motivation of staff is very important. Since the beginning of KAFC operations, management
and staff have fully bought into the mission of KAFC as the leader in rural lending in the Kyrgyz Republic,
and one of the main forces behind the success of the institution is the drive of its staff to deliver on this
challenge. The management of the institution, in turn, have designed systems to ensure that KAFC staff is
motivated to deliver successful results and maintain KAFC's leadership position. That has led to
commitment and dedication of the management and staff to jointly work towards the organizational goals.
The staff remuneration system is merit-based, and loan officers and branch managers with excellent
portfolio quality receive merit-based bonuses. Careful selection of staff and extensive training, which is one
of the focal points of KAFC management, have equipped the staff with tools to benefit from the
merit-based system, which in turn ensures good portfolio quality and efficient operations of the institution.

An effective dialogue with the Government is a key to ensure that the Government does not interfere
in day-to-day operations of state-owned financial institutions. The Government of Kyrgyz Republic is
the sole owner of KAFC until its expected privatization in 2006. However, the Government has stayed at
arm's length from KAFC's day-to-day operations and allowed KAFC to make independent,
commercially-driven lending decisions. A key has been an effective dialogue between the Government and
IDA, to ensure the Government is fully aware of the implications of its involvement in financial sector, but
also to address any Government's concerns related to the operations of KAFC. IDA has monitored
throughout the whole project period to ensure that KAFC is not pressurized into making "political" lending
decisions. When it did happen once, as a result of Government's Decree of 2000 on providing interest rate
subsidies to farmers borrowing from KAFC for spring planting, IDA took a decisive action and suspended
both RFP I and II, to ensure that the negative effects of the Decree on KAFC's portfolio quality were
minimized.

Privatization of a successful institution requires timely and effective communication of the exit
strategy. Since its establishment in 1996, KAFC was to be privatized by the end of the World Bank's
involvement in the institution. In recent years, KAFC has become one of the most successful financial
institutions in the country. The insufficient communication of the World Bank's exist strategy, combined
with the success of KAFC, have made it difficult to agree on a swift privatization of KAFC. The project
team found that privatizing a successful institution is more difficult that privatizing a failed one, mostly due
to the divided opinions of whether an institution should be sold at the peak of its success. It has required,
and continues to require, extensive consensus building activities, which will require a lot of time.

Availability of client development services is a key to improving access of rural entrepreneurs to
financial services. Technical assistance is important to build the capacity of a lending institution, but it is
also important to improve the knowledge and capacity of the borrowers. The RFP II design provided for


                                                     - 16 -

development of rural advisory services, which was later modified into a close collaboration with the rural
advisory service set up under another IDA project in the country. Not only did farmers benefit extensively
from obtaining specific technological advice from the service, but the rural advisory service also provided
advice on alternative employment opportunities in rural areas and general business advice, which was
important to provide access of rural borrowers to the financial services. The financial intermediaries are
more willing to work with clients with higher-value-added business proposals, who understand the
operations of their business, maximize the return of their investment, and understand how to work with a
financial institution.

As a pioneer, expect challenges associated with an ill-adapted legal framework. Although KAFC was
deemed to operate under the banking law, the nature of its activities also made it subject to other laws (tax
code, joint stock company law etc.) with provisions that were often conflicting with those of the banking
law, which created a lot of problems for KAFC and its clients on taxation matters. This was principally
due to lack of a specific law governing institutions like KAFC. Similarly, the laws and procedures relating
to Collateral and Mortgage registration were unsuitable for small farmers. Consequently, the cost paid by
farmers to get loans was disproportionately higher, considering the small loan sizes. In order to promote
such pioneering institutions, it is necessary to constantly review the legal framework and adapt it to the
emerging context in order to have a system that is simple, quick, transparent, and generally more suitable to
the nature of business and clientele of those institutions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                                           KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                                 SECOND RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

        The Second Rural Finance project (RFP II) continued the activities initiated under the First Rural
Finance Project (RFP I). The objectives of the RFP II were to contribute to the establishment of a fiscally
sustainable rural finance system, development of an agro-industrial sector by providing loans to farmers,
and reduction of rural poverty.

        Early October 1999 Kyrgyz Republic and the International Development Association (IDA)
entered into a Credit Agreement for the Rural Finance Project II. From the Project implementation start
date through June 30, 2005, the amount disbursed for the respective Components were:

              Project Component                               Amount
                                                           (US$ million.)
             ·. Rural Finance :                                14.90
                - Individual Sub-loans                         14.46
                - Group lending                                 0.44
             ·. Institutional Development                       0.16
             ·. Project Management                              0.10
             TOTAL                                             15.16

        Government Co-financing. As part of the RFP II co-financing, the Kyrgyz Government



                                                      - 17 -

transferred to KAFC a building with a balance sheet value of KGS 63,353.2 thousand (US$ 1.5 million
equivalent). In addition, the Government's contribution included provision of office space to the PMU,
furniture, utilities, communications and maintenance, as well as US$ 1,020 towards co-financing of the
PMU operating costs. The Government's contribution to the equity capital of KAFC amounted to KGS
300.0 million.

         Impact of the Project Activities. The RFP II impact survey carried out by the Inter-cooperation
(Switzerland) reviewed 480 households and 2,500 individuals in 23 ayil okmotu (villages) in four regions,
including active clients of KAFC, former clients, as well as non-borrowers. Major conclusions regarding
the impact of project activities on the beneficiaries included: improvement of clients' welfare situation;
access of households with average and lower than average income to credits which provided the
opportunity for income-generating activities; a large number of women had access to income-generating
activities through group lending that contributed to the improved welfare of households.

         Overall, the Government of Kyrgyz Republic, rates the project performance as satisfactory.

Project Implementation

         The implementation of RFP II started in September 2001. Initially, the project was implemented by
the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation (KAFC). On December 12, 2002, a Project Management
Unit (PMU) was established within the Ministry of Finance of Kyrgyz Republic. Its functions included:
day-to-day management and coordination of the project, including activities related to accounting, audits,
disbursement, reporting etc.

Credit Line Component

         The project participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) were KAFC, and, since early 2004,
Ineximbank, to create competitive environment and to expand access to credit resources in the rural areas.
The PFIs provided collateralized individual loans to farmers, agro-industrial enterprises, small and medium
agribusinesses engaged in agro processing. KAFC also provided social-collateral based groups loans to the
rural poor, as well as to non-commercial agricultural cooperatives established by small farms. The project
also contributed to the diversification of rural economy, as lending was also provided for non agricultural
activities in rural areas:   construction and opening of new cafeterias, tea houses, canteens; various
workshops (tailoring, shoe repair, artisan etc.); stores, pharmacies, veterinary clinics; procurement of
vehicles for transportation; trading and marketing operations so as to create new jobs.

         The Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Ministry of Finance and PFIs were signed on
January 24, 2004, setting forth the guidelines on how to disburse the credit line to PFIs for on-lending to
farms, agri-industrial enterprises, small and medium businesses engaged in processing. Under the terms and
conditions of the Agreements with PFIs, the subsidiary loans were due and repayable over the period of 15
years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 3 years. The Subsidiary Loans were charged a variable
interest rate, which was readjusted on March 15 every year, and was calculated as an average between the
actual annual inflation rate for the previous year announced by the National Bureau of Statistics and the
projected inflation rate. To cover currency exchange risk and administrative costs of the MOF for
monitoring and supervision, the subsidiary loan was charged an additional 2% margin.

         Under the RFP II credit line, sub-loans were provided in all regions of Kyrgyz Republic. As of
June 30, 2005, the total amount of sub-loans approved from the beginning of the project was KGS 1,112.6
million, of which: in Bishkek area ­ KGS 6.8 million; in Chui Oblast ­ KGS 89.7 million; in Talass Oblast


                                                    - 18 -

­ KGS 144.7 million; in Djalal-Abad Oblast ­ KGS 204.7 million; in Issyk-Kul Oblast - KGS 111.3
million; in Osh Oblast ­ KGS 337.1 million; in Batken Oblast ­ KGS 97.0 million; and in Naryn ­ KGS
121.3 million.

        The average KAFC sub-loan amount is equivalent to US$1,500. As of today, the lending portfolio
of KAFC covers such agricultural sub-sectors              as: crop production, livestock,      poultry, bee,
agro-processing, procurement and marketing, agricultural machinery and equipment supply, rural
construction, crafts, rural services, tourism, financial services and agricultural equipment manufacturing.
The interest rates to KAFC beneficiaries were between 13% and 19%, based on the creditworthiness of the
borrowers and approval of the Loan Committee. KAFC provides short-, medium- and long-term loans, with
the maturities of up to one year, one to three years, and, three to seven years, respectively.

        As of the project closing, KAFC's total capital amounted to KGS 576.1 million, assets were
equivalent to KGS 1,887.2 million (an increase of 15.3% compared to the previous year), and net income
to KGS 52.8 million. The KAFC net loan portfolio increased by KGS 227.9 million in 2005, and of the
reporting date was equivalent to KGS 1,648.0 million, of which: 74.4% of loans were provided for
livestock production, 4.3% for crop production, 3.5% for processing, 17.8% for other types of rural
business activities. KAFC liabilities to the Government were in the amount of KGS 11,082.0 million. The
capital adequacy ratio was 31.6% (minimum NBK requirement of 12%).

        The recovery rate for all types of lending remained high, averaging around 98%, including.

        Currently, KAFC has partially filled agricultural lending gap, established lending discipline among
its borrowers in rural areas, and developed an adequate capacity and skills of the staff as a significant
contribution to the future establishment of a rural commercial bank.

        Ineximbank joined the Project in 2004, to create a competitive environment. Under the Project, the
Ineximbank's loan portfolio was US$ 430,000. Loans were provided to 9 borrowers, of which seven were
in Chiu Oblast, one in Issyk-Kul, and one in Osh. The average loan amount in Ineximbank was US$
48,000, much higher than the average loan amount in KAFC, due to the fact that the bank provided
financing to larger-scale agricultural production and processing industry.

         The interest rates charged by Ineximbank were in the range of 15 - 16 percent per annum, as
approved by the Loan Committee. Ineximbank also provided short-, medium- and long-term loans with the
maturities of up to one year, one to three years, and, three to ten years, respectively.

Institutional Development Component

         Under this Component, the from the Project funds an amount of US$162,985 was provided to
KAFC for international audit in 2003, upgrade of KAFC's management information system, procurement
of vehicles for local branches and payment to international consultants for development of Operational
Guidelines.

        According to the KAFC Business Plan for 2004-2010, KAFC is intended to be transformed into an
open joint stock rural bank (Aiyl Bank). The Government issued Resolution No 832 "On Transformation
of KACF into Aiyl Bank", dated November 11, 2004. Following this Resolution, KAFC submitted a
complete package of documents to the National Bank of Kyrgyz Republic. The Government is also
considering privatization options and subsequent transformation of KAFC into Aiyl Bank. According to the
laws of the KR "On the Government of Kyrgyz Republic", "On Privatization of State-Owned Property in


                                                     - 19 -

Kyrgyz Republic" and "On Joint Stock Companies" the Government issued Resolution No 483 "On
Government Equity in KAFC" on October 19, 2005.                Under this Resolution, the State Property
Management Committee of KR acts as the owner of 100% of the shares of KAFC, and it will start the
privatization process of the state-owned shares according to the established procedures.



Conclusions and Lessons Learned

1)      It should be stated that the finances provided under the RFP II made a positive impact on the
        sustainable development of rural financial system intended to service a broad range of borrowers,
        including agribusinesses and small scale farms. In addition, lending to rural areas under the project
        was done at reasonable interest rates, in the range of 13 ­ 19 percent.

2)      Inexim Bank joined the project as a participating financial institution (PFI) in 2004, following its
        selection based on eligibility criteria, which improved competition in rural lending. When Inexim
        Bank joined the project it had only one branch outside the capital city, in the town of Osh,
        however, as of the end of 2005 it has five branches. The bank is encouraged to expand its branch
        network further, in order to improve farmers' accesses to lending.

3)      The project through its group lending sub-component ensured access to credit for the most
        disadvantaged groups of people. Under this component, social-collateral based loans through
        groups-lending mechanism were extended to the most vulnerable groups in order to provide
        financial support to those individuals who had inadequate physical or other types of collateral. This
        special credit line contributes to the reduction of rural poverty by supporting viable economic and
        income generating activities (both agricultural and non-agricultural) by providing credit
        opportunities to the poor.

4)      One can state with confidence that the borrowers' attitude to loans has changed towards a more
        calculated approach and increased responsibility of loan repayment. Beneficiaries have acquired
        skills of borrowing and repayment discipline.

5)      This project shows that there is a demand for rural loans and this demand is very high. It has also
        demonstrated the viability of commercial agricultural lending.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators
Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4: Bank Inputs
Annex 5: Ratings of Achievements of Objectives
Annex 6: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
Additional Annex 8: Credit Line implementation results



                                                     - 20 -

Additional Annex 9: Summary of impact assessment
Additional Annex 10: KAFC institutional development results




                                               - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Sustainable financial intermediaries with    Minimum repayment rate of 92%, projected at Sound portfolio quality in the project
sound portfolio and high repayment rates;    appraisal                                       participating financial institutions, with
                                                                                             repayment rate in KAFC of 98% and 100% in
                                                                                             Ineximbank
Increased income levels and reduction in     Average income increased by at least 5%         Average annual income of KAFC borrowers
poverty among the project beneficiaries vs.  from the baseline                               up to 2.5 times bigger than non-borrowers
nonparticipants




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
A number of commercial banks involved in     Three                                           Four: in addition to KAFC, one commercial
lending to agricultural and rural sectors                                                    bank under the project; at least two more lend
                                                                                             to agriculture outside the project activities
Increased access for rural people to         Minimum 24,000 rural borrowers                  34,300 - total number of borrowers in KAFC,
commercial banking, credit unions, etc. in                                                   including 15,600 individual borrowers and
rural areas                                                                                  3,500 group loan beneficiaries financed
                                                                                             under RFP II
Annual independent audit performed           Annual audit completed                          Annual independent audits performed
Registered NGOs and consulting groups        More than one such NGO/organization             RAS network, created under the ASSP
providing support to private entrepreneurs   established                                     project, continues to exist and provide advice
                                                                                             to farmers and rural entrepreneurs
Reduction of administrative expenditures of  No more than 8% of average annual loan          Administrative expenses (including
KAFC                                         portfolio by 2004 (including provisions)        provisions) of KAFC end-2004: 7.5%
Training program for KAFC staff to be        75% of staff take refresher courses each        100% of professional staff trained; KAFC
strengthened and implemented                 year                                            makes a very strong effort in training its staff
                                                                                             both in the country and abroad regularly
MIS implementation                           MIS system fully implemented and                MIS system fully implemented and
                                             operational; all relevant data transferred from operational; transfer of all relevant data from
                                             the old system                                  the old system completed
Interest rates to be positive in real terms  Interest rates reviewed semi-annually           A mechanism installed under the SLA to
                                             All interest rates positive in real terms       review the interest rates semi-annually:
                                                                                             - the interest rates to the PFIs are
                                                                                             benchmarked against inflation, ensuring they
                                                                                             are always positive in real terms;
                                                                                             - PFIs on-lend to clients at freely determined
                                                                                             rates, always positive in real terms

1End of project




                                                                 - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1. Project Costs, US$ million equivalent
                                          PAD                                    At ICR
Component                            Total Indicative Bank Financing Total Costs     IDA Financing
                                     Costs
Component A. Credit Line:                 20.40            14.00           21.94         14.90
- A.1 Commercial Credit Line              16.10            11.0            21.50         14.46
- A.2 Small Farmer Credit Outreach        4.30             3.00            0.44           0.44
Program
Component B. Institutional                2.50             1.00            1.89           0.16
Development
- B.1 Capacity Building Support for       2.00             0.50            0.89           0.13
KAFC
- B.2 Other TA                            0.50             0.50            1.00           0.03
Component 3. Project Management                                            0.10           0.10
Total Project Costs:                      22.90            15.00           23.93         15.16




Table 2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$ thousand equivalent)
                                     Procurement Method

   Expenditure Category            ICB     NCB           Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Goods Part B                    0.00    0.00         25.0 (IS)       0.00         25.0

2. Sub-loans                       0.00    0.00       14,904.3 (CP)     0.00      14,904.3

3. Consultant Services and         0.00    0.00         11.8(IS)        0.00        138.0
Training Part B                                        70.0 (CQ)
                                                        56.2 (IC)
4. Consultant Services and         0.00    0.00         3.5 (CQ)        0.00         76.9
Training Part C                                        69.7 (DC)
                                                        3.0 (NS)
                                                        0.7 (IC)
5. Goods Part C                    0.00    0.00          8.8 (IS)       0.00         10.0
                                                        1.2 (NC)
6. Operating Costs                 0.00    0.00         9.2 (CP)        0.00         9.2

   Total                                                                          15,163.4




                                                - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At Appraisal, the objectives of the project were set to contribute to the reduction of poverty in rural areas
by supporting the development of viable economic activities (on- and off-farm) to generate income. The
discussion in this Annex, therefore, will concentrate on the project impact on the ultimate borrowers at the
household level.

Economic Impact on the Project Beneficiaries

In order to assess the impact of its activities after two consecutive Rural Finance Projects totalling US$
31.0 million equivalent, the World Bank commissioned an independent impact assessment study financed
by a Swiss Trust Fund. The Terms of Reference (TOR) of the assignment focused on assessing the role the
project activities played in reducing poverty among the project beneficiaries.

The results of the impact assessment are based on a survey of 480 households, including 200 current
KAFC clients (Category 1), 120 former KAFC clients (Category 2) and a control group of 160 non-clients
(Category 3), including rejected loan applicants (Category 4), as well as the focus group discussions and
the semi-structured interviews.

Beneficiary Impact Assessment Results

At appraisal, no attempt was made to derive an overall financial rate of return and net present value for the
project, as it was a demand-driven credit line and it was not possible to foresee in advance what types of
farm and off-farm projects would be financed under the project. However, in order to illustrate the financial
impact of those entities receiving credit, six models for more common farm types were developed.

At closing, the profitability calculations were repeated, using the specific sub-projects of beneficiaries,
financed by the participating financial institutions. Summaries of the calculation results are presented
below.

The independent impact assessment attempted to review the profitability of some of the investments
financed under the project through carrying out both qualitative and quantitative impact assessments of the
project activities on beneficiaries. The methodology included selection of several activities more commonly
represented in KAFC's loan portfolio, both of agricultural and non-agricultural nature, such as livestock
breeding, crop production, transportation business, etc., and carrying out of gross margin analysis and IRR
calculations, as appropriate, to assess the profitability of the economic activities financed. Both quantitative
and qualitative data clearly show an improvement in the households' economic well-being, the details of
which are presented below.

Qualitative Analysis: Perception in change of economic well-being

Overall, commenting on the changes that occurred during the project period (2002-2005), 65 percent of
active clients and 70 percent of former clients (Categories 1 and 2, respectively) felt that their well-being
had improved. Forty seven percent of respondents associated it with greater cash inflow, followed by 25
percent who related it to consumption of more food produced at the household level. By comparison, only a
third of the total households in Categories 3 and 4 felt that their well-being had improved.

In all groups economic well-being was associated with the following elements (in the order of significance):



                                                      - 24 -

(a) income increase resulted in greater and stable cash inflow; (b) increase in livestock size and
improvement of its quality; (c) purchase of productive assets including machinery and other equipment; (d)
increase in food consumption in terms of amount and variety; (e) improvement of purchasing power of
physical property (house/apartment); (f) affordability of quality health and education services; and (g)
ability to pay for family ceremonies such as weddings, funerals, birth-of-a-child related celebrations,
anniversaries and other social functions.

Quantitative Analysis: Change in income level from farm and rural business activities

The analysis of the impact of Project was based on the calculations of budgets for agricultural and
non-agricultural activities of farmers and rural entrepreneurs who did not take part in the project versus
those who benefited from consultations and adequate access to information, marketing support and finally,
financial resources.

Higher Household Incomes for Borrowers

The analysis showed that among KAFC clients, the households relying on livestock for income receive the
highest annual income, totalling on average KGS 26,140 KGS per household. By comparison, in non-client
households, these figures are much lower amounting to only KGS 10,580 (41% of that of borrowers') of
annual income. Crop production was the 2nd most important source of income, totalling approximately
KGS 22,340 among clients and KGS 10,080 (or 45% of that of clients') among non-clients. These results
are summarized in Table 1 below.

Table 1: Differences in economic activities engaged in, and levels of income

                                    Clients                              Non-clients
                       Number of         Average income        Number of          Average income
                       households         (annual, Som)        households          (annual, som)
                        (percent)                               (percent)
  Livestock               87.2               26,140               48.3                10,580
  Crop production         80.0               22,340               62.5                10,800
  Services                 7.5                2,400               16.9                 2,220
  Trade                   10.6                4,450                5.6                 1,210
  Salary                  10.0                1,200               25.6                 700
  Pensions                24.1                3,140               20.6                 1,960



Source: Household Survey, September 2005 (480 households)



Gross margin and IRR calculations

Livestock production

The budgets for five activities in the livestock sector (cow milk, beef meat, pork meat, sheep meat, rabbit
meat) were developed, taking into consideration "with" and "without" the project scenarios. Overall, the
"with project" scenario shows increases in productivity, related incomes, structure of herd and net profits.
"With" project scenario shows a substantial increase in animal productivity due to consulting services and
access to loans, which allowed enterprises to improve the gene pool and bio-morphological characteristics
of animal races, to optimize the fodder structure and amounts consumed, to use complex and nutritive



                                                    - 25 -

balanced fodder, to apply advanced animal breeding technologies, etc., resulting in increased profits.
"Without the project" implied a situation where the entrepreneurs continued to use same inputs (animals
with low biological characteristics, unbalanced fodder ratios and virtually no improved technology). Full
economic-financial models with the two scenario simulations for animal breeding and reproduction are
available in the project documents on file. Summaries of the differences between the "with" and "without"
the project scenarios are reflected in Tables 2-5.

 Table 2: Productivity differences in "with" and "without" scenarios, in Kilograms (Kg) and
 Liters (l) of output

                                                                                Milk production                                                                          Veal meat production                                                                                   Mutton meat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 production                                                           Pork meat production                                                                              Rabbit meat production



                                                    measure                                                                    Increme                                                                                     Increme                                                                            Increme                                                                              Increme                                                                                               Incremental
                                                           of                                                                    ntal                                     *                        s**                                 ntal                                                                              ntal                                                                                 ntal

       Specification                                         Unit               cow*1                   cows**5                                                            ullb1                      ullb                                                                                      sheep**                                                pig*1             pigs**                                                             rabbits*                     rabbits**
                                                                                                                                                    l                                                     10                                                           sheep*1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                   30                            l                                         10                                          l                        10                            50                                               l

                                                                                                                                 ratio               Kg,                                                                     ratio                  Kg,                                                                  ratio        Kg,                                                           ratio                   Kg,                                                                           ratio                     Kg,

                                                                 l
  Revenues
                                                                  Kg,                5004                      000
                                                                                                                  27                  006.              500                     350
                                                                                                                                                           22                                               7003                  57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.                3503                   45                         5001                 33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                33.      4551               150                  5001                    00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.                 3501                                                 175                        005.                    140

 * "without" scenario - enterprise not participating in the project (no consultations and no loans)
 ** "with" scenario - enterprise participating to project (consultations, and loans)




 Table 3: Revenue (before taxes) differences in "with" and "without" scenarios,
 in KG Som (KGS)

                                                                               Milk production                                                               Veal meat production                                                                           Mutton meat production                                                                             Pork meat production                                                                      Rabbit meat production


                                                                                                       Incremental                                                                                 Incremental                                                                                               Incremental                                                                           Incremental                                                                                                     Incremental
                                    measure                                                                                  Gross                                                 **                                     Gross                                                                                          Gross                                                                                          Gross                                                                                                 Gross
                                           of                                                                                                                 *
                                                                                                                             Margin                                                                                       Margin                                                                                         Margin                                                                                         Margin                                                                                                Margin
                    Specification            Unit                    cow*1               cows**5                                                               ullb1                 ullsb
                                                                                                                                                                                          10                                                                sheep*1               sheep**                                                                      pig*1                 pigs**                                                               rabbits*                      rabbits**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30                                                                                                10                                                                     10                             50
                                                                                                                    ratio                 KGS                                                                   ratio                    KGS                                                                   ratio                         KGS                                                              ratio                KGS                                                                               ratio                KGS


   Revenues                                                               908                   895
                                                 KGS                         14                                          448.                987                    620                     986                      12                     366                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              334
                                                                                                   125                                          110                    11                      198                     17.                     187                 5711                    654                      27.                         083
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              94                       60                          93               2045                     597                   80                 393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                92                   17.                 87                         5628                           896
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      47                  595.                  39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 26 -

 Table 4: The differences in the structure of livestock in "with" and "without" scenarios

                                     Quantity of animals                                                                       into

                                                        (average)                                                                                                                                             The structure of livestock in conventional units

                                                                                                                                                                             units

      Specification        Unit                                    s                                                               transferring
                                                                                                                                               of
                                        clients                                                                                                                                                     KAFC clients                    Non clients                        Total
                                                                    client
                                                                                         Total                                                                                    conventional
                                               KAFC                       Non
                                                                                                                                                 Coefficient                                       heads            %             heads             %       heads                         %
  Cows for milk
  production            heads         5.31                       1.60             3.45                                                                      1.00                                    5.31          31.5%            1.60            31.9%            3.45                 31.6%
  Cattle for fattening  heads         3.20                       0.40             1.80                                                                      0.70                                    2.24          13.3%            0.28            5.6%             1.26                 11.5%
  Sheep for fattening   heads        19.30                       4.19            11.75                                                                      0.13                                    2.51          14.9%            0.54            10.9%            1.53                 14.0%
  Pigs for fattening    heads         0.19                       0.18             0.18                                                                      0.25                                    0.05            0.3%           0.05            0.9%             0.05                 0.4%
  Rabbits               heads        34.50                       4.30            19.40                                                                      0.03                                    1.04            6.1%           0.13            2.6%             0.58                 5.3%
  Other                 heads         --                         --               --                                           --                                                                  5.74           34.0%            2.41            48.1%            4.07                 37.2%
          Total                       --                         --               --                                           --                                                                  16.88          100%             5.01            100%            10.93                 100%




 Table 5: Differences in profits in "with" and "without" scenarios

                                                    Quantity of                                                                                                                                Net profit per 1
                                                         animals                                                                                                                                                                   Net profits, KGS
                                                                                                of             into                                         units                             head of livestock,                                                          farm
                                                        (average)                                                                                                                                            KGS                         (average)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KGS
       Specification            Unit

                                                                                                  Coefficient
                                                    KAFC  clients             Non                                  transferring
                                                                                  clients                                                                        conventional                  KAFC  clients        Non clients      KAFC clients       Non                                  income,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            clients           Incremental

  Cows for milk
  production              heads                     5.31                      1.60                           1.00                                                                             25 179              14 908           133 700             23 853           109 848
  Beefs for fattening     heads                     3.20                      0.40                           0.70                                                                             19 899              11 620            63 676              4 648            59 028
  Sheep for fattening     heads                    19.30                      4.19                           0.13                                                                              3 155                1 571           60 894              6 580            54 314
  Pigs for fattening      heads                     0.19                      0.18                           0.25                                                                              9 260                5 204            1 759                 937                           823
  Rabbits                 heads                    34.50                      4.30                           0.03                                                                                  958                 856          33 048              3 682            29 366
  Other                   heads                     --                        --                             --                                                                                             --                 --                --                --                               --
  Total                   heads                     --                        --                             --                                                                                             --                 --                --                --   253 379




Crop production

Budgets for eight agricultural crops (wheat, sun flower, potato, sugar beet, tomatoes, carrots and cotton)
were developed taking into consideration "with" and "without" scenarios. Overall, the "with project"
scenario shows increases in productivity, related incomes and gross margins. The results of the "with"
scenario show a substantial increase of output as a result of using consulting services and access to loans,
which allowed enterprises to use higher quality seeds, apply optimal amount of fertilizers, use advanced
agricultural technologies, etc. and increase revenues of enterprises. "Without project" implied a situation
where little of the same raw material is used (low quality seeds, very little fertilizers and almost no



                                                                                              - 27 -

chemicals). Full economic-financial models with the three scenario simulations for animal breeding and
reproduction are available in the project documents on file. Summaries of the differences between the
"with" and "without" the project scenarios are reflected in Tables 6-8.

 Table 6: Yield differences in three "with" and "without" scenarios (t/ha)

                       of
Specification
                         Unit       measure        Winter       wheat         Corn       Sun        flower      Potatoes            Sugar     beet
                                                                                                                                                           Tomatoes             Carrots            Cotton


Type 1*          ton                                     3.00             3.00              1.80              16.00                20.00                 20.00                 7.00              2.50

Type 2 **        ton                                     4.00             5.00              2.10              20.00                33.00                 30.00                 9.00              3.10

% increase             %                    33.3%                       66.7%        16.7%                   25.0%                 65.0%                 50.0%               28.6%              24.0%

Type 3***        ton                                     5.00             8.00              2.60              26.00                45.00                 40.00                13.00              4.00

% increase             %                    66.7%                      166.7%        44.4%                   62.5%                125.0%                100.0%               85.7%              60.0%



*        "without"scenario 1 - enterprise not participating in the project (no consultations or loans)
**       "without" scenario 2 - enterprise participating in the project (consultations, but no loans)
***      "with" scenario - enterprise participating in the project (consultations, and loans)


Table 7: Revenue (before taxes) differences in three "with" and "without" scenarios (KGS/ha)


                 of
Specification
                   Unit                                                   Corn        Sun                                                         beet
                             measure         Winter        wheat                              flower                    Potatoes         Sugar
                                                                                                                                                                   Tomatoes            Carrots           Cotton


Type 1*         KGS                         13 290                     9 965        13 190                    49 484               27 212                50 841              36 880             15 385

Type 2 **       KGS                         16 974                     13 703       17 324                    77 672               38 781                92 475              57 494             23 080

% increase       %                          27.7%                      37.5%        31.3%                     57.0%                42.5%                 81.9%                55.9%              50.0%

Type 3***       KGS                         21 707                     18 212       20 439                   101 427               52 175               129 873              83 708             34 623

% increase       %                          63.3%                      82.8%        55.0%                    105.0%                91.7%                155.4%               127.0%             125.0%



*        "without"scenario 1 - enterprise not participating in the project (no consultations or loans)
**       "without" scenario 2 - enterprise participating in the project (consultations, but no loans)
***      "with" scenario - enterprise participating in the project (consultations, and loans)




                                                                                                          - 28 -

 Table 8: The Gross margin calculations for a small model farm with an average of 1.5 ha

                Cropping pattern                 Gross margin, KGS/ha


  Crops****                                *1              **2                         Incremental Gross    Incremental farm
                                                                                         Margin, KGS         income, KGS
                   %      Hectare                                        ***3

                                             Type             Type           Type
  Wheat          38.3%       0.58     13 290.0         16 974.0       21 707.3         3 684.0     8 417.3 2 118.6     4 840.7
  Corn           21.4%       0.32      9 965.0         13 703.0       18 212.3         3 738.0     8 247.3 1 198.6     2 644.4
  Sunflower       7.9%       0.12     13 190.0         17 324.0       20 439.3         4 134.0     7 249.3   488.7       857.0
  Potatoes        6.0%       0.09     49 484.0         77 672.0      101 427.0        28 188.0   51 943.0  2 528.6     4 659.6
  Sugar-beet      9.0%       0.14     27 212.0         38 781.0       52 175.0        11 569.0   24 963.0  1 570.2     3 388.2
  Tomatoes        2.0%       0.03     50 841.0         92 475.0      129 873.0        41 634.0   79 032.0  1 228.7     2 332.5
  Carrots         1.2%       0.02     36 880.0         57 494.0       83 708.0        20 614.0   46 828.0    367.8       835.5
  Cotton          1.1%       0.02     15 385.0         23 080.0       34 623.3         7 695.0   19 238.3    130.9       327.2
  Others         13.1%       0.20                --               --              --        --          --      --          --
  Total           100%       1.50                --               --              --        --          -- 9 632.2   19 885.1
 *        "without"scenario 1 - enterprise not participating in the project (no consultations or loans)
 **       "without" scenario 2 - enterprise participating in the project (consultations, but no loans)
 ***      "with" scenario - enterprise participating in the project (consultations, and loans)
 ****     cropping patterns based on the most frequently reported crops during the survey



Non-agricultural activities

The examples of non-agricultural investments are based on the results of the client household survey and
feature a shuttle bus service enterprise and a trading enterprise. Full calculations are available in the project
documents on file.

Key Assumptions:
·       The models were designed for a period of four years and calculated in KGS value;
·       Of the total investment, beneficiary contribution was 10-20%, and the remaining amount was
borrowed under the project;
·       The interest rate used for calculations was 15% in KGS;
·       Investments proved to be profitable with a positive cumulative net cash flow;
·       For each investment a financial internal rate of return was calculated.

Table 9: Van for Transporting Passengers (shuttle bus service) ­ IRR 29%
                       Indicators                                    Unit of measure             Value
 Investment cost for the purchase of a Mercedes van                              KGS            319 800
Annual profit, at maximum capacity                                               KGS            150 000
Beneficiary's own contribution                                                   KGS            19 800
The amount of loan used to finance the purchase                                  KGS            300 000
Annual interest rate                                                              %               15%
Grace period                                                             Months                    6
Loan term                                                                Months                    48
Return on investment period                                                      Years            3.08
Net present value                                                                KGS            112 377




                                                           - 29 -

Internal Rate of Return - IRR                                  %            29%



Table 10: Trading company ­ goods for children ­ IRR 25%
                      Indicators                       Unit of measure   Value
 The cost of investment in the trading outlets              KGS          574 000
Annual revenues                                             KGS          200 000
Beneficiary's own contribution                              KGS          74 000
Loan                                                        KGS          500 000
Annual interest rate                                          %          15.0%
Grace period                                               Months          6
Loan term                                                  Months          48
Return on investment period                                 Years         3,33
Net present value                                           KGS          137 735
Internal Rate of Return - IRR                                 %          24.8%




                                                 - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 1999             9    TT(1)L; RURAL BANKING (2);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT(1); PROJECT
                                             ANALYST (2); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALISTS (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/14/1999                7    TTL(1); LEGAL(1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT(1);
                                             BANKING SPECIALIST(1);
                                             PROCUREMENT(1);
                                             OPERATIONAL
                                             ANALYST(1);
                                             OPERATIONAL
                                             ASSISTANT(1)

 Supervision

              09/10/1999                7    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL           S               S
                                             BANKING (1); PROJECT
                                             OPERATIONS (1);
                                             MONITORING & EVALUATIO
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ASSESSME (1);
                                             AGRI-BUSINESS (1); RURAL
                                             BANKING/MIS (1)
              04/14/2000                7    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL           S               S
                                             BANKING (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             AGRI-BUSINESS (1); RURAL
                                             BANKING / MIS (1); RM
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              10/10/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); AGRIBUSINESS
                                             CONSULTAN (1)
              02/10/2001                3    SR. FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);       S               S
                                             RURAL BANKING CONSULT.
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              06/16/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/13/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCE (1); FMS (1); SME



                                              - 31 -

                                                  (1); BANKING (1)
               09/30/2002                     4   TEAM LEADER (1); LENDING            S    S
                                                  OPERATIONS (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  SECTOR (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                                  (1)
               02/22/2003                     4   MISSION LEADER (1); RURAL           S    S
                                                  FINANCE CONS. (1); YOUNG
                                                  PROFESSIONAL (1);
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               10/12/2003                     3   TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL              S    S
                                                  FIN. SPECIALIST (1); FIN.
                                                  MGT. SPECIALIST (1)
               06/08/2004                     2   TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL              S    S
                                                  FIN SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
               06/21/2005                    4     TTL (1); OPERATIONS                S    S
                                                   OFFICER(1); FINANCIAL
                                                   MANAGEMENT
                                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                  588.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                                 786.4
  ICR
  Total                                                                     1,375.3
Appraisal/Negotiations budget is included in the Identification/Prepration budget;
ICR budget is included in Supervision budget




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document - Kyrgyz Republic: Second Rural Finance Project - Report No: 19366-KG,
June 1, 1999
2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between The Kyrgyz Republic and The International Development
Association (IDA) regarding the Second Rural Finance Project, including the Supplementary Letters
3. Development Credit Agreement - The Kyrgyz Republic: Second Rural Finance Project, Credit No
3259-KG, October 1, 1999
4. Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance
Corporation (KAFC), dated January 2004
5. Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Ineximbank, dated January 2004
6. Rural Credit Guidelines
7. Quarterly Progress Reports of the Project Implementing Agencies (KAFC and PMU, as appropriate)
8. Impact Assessment of the Second Rural Finance Project - InterCooperation (Switzerland), December
2005
9. Annual Audited Financial Statements of the Second Rural Finance Project
10. Annual Audited Financial Statements of KAFC (1997 - 2004) and Ineximbank (2003, 2004)
11. KAFC Audit Results by the National Bank of Kyrgyz Republic - 2002, 2003, 2004
12. Report on the Analysis of the Loan Portfolio of KAFC as at December 31, 2003 - KPMG, June 2004
13. Agreed Upon Procedures Report of KAFC - KPMG, June 2004
14. KAFC Operational Manual
15. KAFC Group Lending Manual
16. KAFC Assessment Report by Microfinanza, September 2003
17. Social Assessment for the Second Rural Finance Project - Stan Peabody, Hermine G. De Soto and
Anara Tabyshalieva, 1999
18. Environmental Review, March 1999
19. General Guidelines for Determining and Addressing Potential Environmental Impacts of Loan
Activities




                                                  - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Credit Line Implementation Results

Second Rural Finance Project - Summary of Credit Line Implementation
(amounts in KGS ' 000)


                         Implementation
                                                             2001       2002      2003      2004    06/30/2005   Total
Total number of Loans (cumulative)                               953      5,779    10,160   12,636     16,073     16,073
Total Amount of Loans, disbursed, of which:                   56,769    280,982   253,924  159,414    235,624    986,713
Commercial loans                                                                                                      -
         1. Total Number of loans disbursed                      953      4,811     3,965    2,421      3,425     15,575
         2. Total Amount of loans disbursed                   56,769    279,860   219,081  155,763    235,624    947,097
         3. Average loan amount                                   60         58        55       64         69          61
         4. Average interest rate (%)                       26.61%     20.95%      18%      17%        17%        17%
         5. Average grace period - years/mounth                   20         20        19       14         10          83
         6. Average loan repayment period - years/mounth          33         33        30       34         33          33
Group lending                                                                                                         -
         1. Total Number of loans disbursed                      -           15       428       55        -           498
         2. Total Amount of loans disbursed                      -        1,122    34,843    3,651        -       39,616
         3. Total number of members                              -          110     2,998      385        -         3,493
         4. Average loan amount per group                        -           75        81      217        -            80
         5. Average interest rate                                -      20%        17%      17%           -       17%
         6. Average grace period - years/mounth                  -           20        17       16        -            16
         7. Average loan repayment period - years/mounth         -           20        21       21        -            21


Purpose of Loan                                                                                                       -
Total approved (amount)                                       81,373    278,749   265,526  163,188    231,722   1,020,558
    Working capital loans approved                             3,652     56,184    30,624   11,789     60,339    162,589
       Crop production (amount)                                  297      7,935     2,870    1,309      5,523     17,935
       Livestock production (amount)                           2,387     20,641    22,454    7,921     43,670     97,074
       Poultry keeping (amount)                                  -          175         2       27         37         241
       Bee keeping (amount)                                      -          161        72        5        213         451
       Processing industry (amount)                              820     10,734       422      165        686     12,827
       Trade (amount)                                            143     13,963     2,215    1,864      6,790     24,975
       Purchase of Equipment (amount)                            -          838       781      150        918       2,687
       Construction (amount)                                       5        635       405      120      1,261       2,426
       Homecraft (amount)                                        -          683       212       35         30         960
       Service (amount)                                          -          420     1,040      186      1,009       2,655
       Other (amount)                                            -          -         150        8        202         360
    Investment Loans approved                                 77,721    222,565   234,902  151,399    171,383    857,969
       Crop production (amount)                                    7        856       983      382        102       2,329
       Livestock production (amount)                          65,760    203,012   221,319  133,946    157,488    781,525
       Poultry keeping (amount)                                  126        161       -         10        -           297
       Bee keeping (amount)                                      462        130       299      165         40       1,096
       Processing industry (amount)                              384        722       780      100          5       1,991
       Trade (amount)                                            -        2,535       370      -          -         2,905
       Purchase of Equipment (amount)                          7,959      6,834     5,971    4,584      5,038     30,386
       Construction (amount)                                   2,723      7,344     4,259    6,662      8,300     29,287
       Homecraft (amount)                                        -          300       -        -          -           300
       Service (amount)                                          300        671       921    1,950        410       4,252
       Other (amount)                                            -          -         -      3,600        -         3,600




                                                                     - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Summary of the Impact Assessment

This Annex summarizes the conclusions and recommendations of the Impact Assessment commissioned by
IDA to be carried out on the results of the Second Rural Finance project. The views expressed in the report,
and which are summarized here-below, are those of the consultants, and do necessarily reflect the views of
IDA or KAFC.

Research Methodology

The Impact Assessment included carrying out of a survey of 480 households, including 200 current KAFC
clients, 120 former KAFC clients (i.e., drop outs) and a control group of 160 non-clients, including rejected
loan applicants, as well as the focus group discussions and the semi-structured interviews between mid
August and mid October in the four regions of Chuy, Naryn, Osh and Batken.

The research methodology combined collection and analysis of quantitative and qualitative data. The
research framework contained the following instruments:
·        "Matrix of analysis" that lists the key issues, indicators, methodologies, comments and sources of
data according to the micro, meso and macro level            (as defined by CGAP).
·        Household survey questionnaire and sampling guidelines.
·        Questions proposed in focus group discussions and semi-structured interviews.

The above instruments were complemented by secondary data, literature review, extensive field visits in the
regions of Chuy, Naryn and Osh and interviews of key stakeholders. The international team made 134
follow-up interviews so as to (1) complement the results of the household survey, the focus group
discussions and the semi-structured interviews, (2) concentrate on qualitative issues relevant to each of the
stakeholder groups, (3) analyse the role of rural non-financial service providers, and (4) assess KAFC's
credit operations from the viewpoint of its clients and its staff at branch and rayon office level. The team
developed interview formats so as to ensure a comparison of the regional differences, as different team
members visited the regions of Naryn and Osh. The team also interviewed key stakeholders related to rural
finance, agricultural and rural business as well as poverty reduction.

Scope of the Assessment

KAFC activities constituted the main outcome of the RFP I and II, as Inexim Bank joined as the first
commercial bank under the commercial credit line only in 2004, and by the end of the project had disbursed
nine loans. The impact assessment of the RFP II focused on the:

    1. Performance of KAFC in terms of lending operations, organisational and human resource
         development at branch level, and, to some extent, its overall institutional development. The clients'
         satisfaction with KAFC's lending services was assessed as well.

    2. Socio-economic impact of KAFC loans on clients, including the margin productivity and yield of
         the main farm and off-farm activities of clients with and without non-financial services and
         compared to non-clients.

    3. Role of rural non-financial service providers and their likely impact on the farm and off-farm
         business of KAFC clients and, as a consequence, on their loan repayment capacity. Noteworthy is
         that their services are so far financed by multilateral and bilateral donors mobilised by RFP II.



                                                     - 37 -

     4. Overall assessment of the achievement of RFP II development objectives.

Conclusions and Recommendations

KAFC Performance

KAFC has targeted from the very beginning the medium poor farm population. It continues to work in the
same market segment, and its average loan size has remained fairly constant. KAFC improved the quality
of its portfolio significantly over the past four years, as indicated by the reduced loan loss provisions to 3%
of the total outstanding portfolio and the decreased PAR30 days to 5%. This was a result of (1) improved
staff capabilities, (2) improved loan monitoring, (3) building of a trustful customer relationship, and (4) a
gradually improved credit discipline.

The portfolio is heavily concentrated in livestock production (74.4%), which attests to very high
responsiveness to the customer demand, but, at the same time, would seem to increase KAFC's risk
exposure. Yet, due to the diversified nature of small-scale farmers, where they usually grow a number of
crops, as well as have livestock, the risks of over-exposure to one sub-sector of agriculture are partly
mitigated. In case of failure of a certain economic activity, the farmers use cash inflows from other
activities to repay the loan. Nonetheless, KAFC intends to diversify the loan portfolio up to a 40%
non-agricultural share, as outlined in its Business Plan 2004-2010.

The group lending under the project has been fairly limited (about 500 groups with 3,500 members). This
may be the result of:

(1)      The initial introduction of two group lending methodologies due to uncoordinated donor support;

(2)      The fact that social collateral may work less well in the Kyrgyz Republic than in South Asia due to
the higher self-reliance (and less severe poverty level) of borrowers;

(3)      Need for further simplification of the loan appraisal methodology for micro loans;

(4)      The fact that most branch managers had previous commercial or central banking experience;

(5)      Lack of service providers to help SHG institutionalisation so that the SHGs dissolve over time.

KAFC's organisational structure is that of a full-fledged commercial bank although, by charter, it only
undertakes lending activities. With this structure, KAFC can easily expand into further activities, notably,
savings mobilisation, payment services and so forth. This may ultimately further increase its already high
efficiency through product cross-selling. KAFC has developed a solid corporate culture and a motivated
and qualified work force as the result of a smart human resource policy that include a job rotation system,
staff promotion and training and a good incentive system. Moreover, KAFC has made the necessary
investment in a new banking online IT system and preparations for an enlarged organisational structure of a
full bank.

In conclusion, the organisational structure and the substantial investments in banking management systems
and staff development (with impressive results) call for the immediate transformation of KAFC into a full
rural commercial bank. A commercial banking licence would also facilitate the investments by `already
mobilised' international development-oriented investors that would enhance significantly KAFC's strategic


                                                      - 38 -

guidance, corporate governance and financial leverage. A further delay banking licence application process
would put unnecessary risk on both the institutional development of KAFC and the future development of
the rural finance sector.

KAFC Client Satisfaction

Overall clients' satisfaction is high, as 87% of the sample current and former clients would take again a
loan from KAFC. The majority of clients value the professionalism, the customer care and the guaranteed
confidentiality as excellent. However, some clients complained about the cumbersome and lengthy loan
documentation and processing that leads to high client transaction costs of up to 5% of the loan amount and
lengthy wait-times. One reason for such complaints is that KAFC provides collateralized loans, which
requires the borrower to obtain an asset ownership document and register with the appropriate authority
before the asset can be used as collateral. It may take several weeks and payment of fees and duties to
obtain the asset ownership documents from the respective authority, which results in long waiting times for
the borrowers. However, KAFC is encouraged to review and, if feasible, reduce the loan processing time at
least for repeat and `good' new clients by starting loan processing upon completion of the loan appraisal at
the clients' business premise instead of waiting for the complete legal loan documentation.

Socio-economic impact of KAFC loans on clients

There is an overall positive socio-economic impact of KAFC loans among its clientele. Economic
well-being of the interviewed households has improved for the majority of the borrowers - both individual
and group loan clients. It is reflected in increasing ability of the clients to maintain and grow their economic
activities, pay the loans, and purchase both productive assets and consumer durables. Clients are able to
generate savings in cash or via investments in physical property, including additional housing and land. The
improvement of incomes derived from economic activities has also increased people's affordability of basic
social services and increased frequency of their access to those services.

In addition to being direct clients (women constitute about 18.6% of KAFC's clientele), women also
participate in sharing household responsibilities regarding the loan(s) obtained by males household heads or
other male relatives. Women of different ages (wives, daughters, and mothers of male household head) are
active members of rural household economy contributing significantly to the economic well-being of their
families by providing both labour and non-labour assistance.

The main findings:

(i)      Improved practices

i.       Most KAFC clients have mixed economic activity, being family farms and individuals who breed
animals, work their land plots, have an auxiliary occupation and one of the family members receives a
permanent allowance from the state or remittances from abroad.

ii.      Agricultural production, including livestock, has improved in the country in general, but much
more significantly increase by those who could access credit.

iii.     An important number of KAFC clients have been supported to initiate off-farm businesses.

(ii)     Increased productivity




                                                      - 39 -

i.      Although in livestock production the majority of farmers use extensive approach by buying more
animals for traditional grazing breeding, a number of stabling farms appeared, predominantly due to the
credit availability.

ii.     Even without using new technologies, access to credit created an opportunity to maintain sufficient
technological level to assure good yields in crop production. Those who applied all the necessary
technological steps have increased their productivity and revenues at least twice.

(iii)   New technologies & innovations. A number of clients have successfully introduced new crop
varieties or breeds in their farms, including non-traditional ones (pigs, ostrich, tomato, etc.).

(iv)    Increased access to non-financial services

i.      KAFC clients could benefit from agricultural and/or business education.

ii.     Methodology on clients' support services, developed within the project (by UNDP, RAS and
KAFC), became available to the entire network of rural business development service providers and it is
widely used.

These achievements could be amplified by taking advantage of the following opportunities and addressing
the following constraints:

1).     Market level

·       Growing internal demand. The domestic demand continues to grow, especially for meat products
due to increasing income and consumption levels.

·       Export opportunities and regulation threats (certification, quality, pest control, etc.). There are
a number of attractive export opportunities for     agricultural producers to Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and
other countries, not fully exploited today. The current export modalities lack international
standards (e.g. hygienic and quality certification and controls), which may threaten exports in the future.

2).     Non-financial service provision level

·       Insufficient agricultural, business & marketing training

        i.        Information still does not reach villages in the desired volume and quality, which requires
continuous presence of specialized service providers         to channel it.

        ii.       Access to markets combined with increases in productivity increasingly become
bottlenecks that need to be addressed more by the rural               non-financial service providers.

·       Group formation challenges and inadequate application of the support methodology

        Unsecured group lending through SHG has shown great results in targeting the lower end of the
        medium-poor population.        Therefore, formation of social collateral-based borrower groups is
        becoming a widely used method.




                                                      - 40 -

·        Collaboration between financial & non-financial service providers

         Cooperation between the credit and non-credit service providers achieved effective practical results
         of delivering benefits their clients. However, more coordination is needed on both sides, to ensure
         sustainable development of the clients.



Role of rural non-financial service providers

The Kyrgyz Republic is no exception in regard to the need of the rural population for non-financial services
to enlarge their business information and know-how in order to use effectively credit by limiting the risk of
business failure and subsequent loan repayment problems. This is particularly important in a transition
economy where entrepreneurial initiative used to be suppressed and where the input and output markets
were organised by the government.

The RFP II succeeded in mobilising multilateral and bilateral donors to finance rural non-financial service
providers and in encouraging UNDP and the Rural Advisory Services (RAS) to conclude co-operation
agreements with KAFC and other financial institutions. UNDP and RAS have assisted rural people to set
up self-help groups so as to access group loans from KAFC. They are offering also other essential services,
such as technical training, business planning and marketing advice, community mobilisation, information
on business opportunities and farm technologies and so forth.

The key challenges of the rural non-financial service providers continue to be (1) mobilising long-term
donor funding on the road towards financial and institutional sustainability, (2) meeting the priority service
needs of the rural businesses and to gradually increase their fees to cost-covering levels, and (3) being paid
a success fee by financial institutions linked to business success and timely loan repayment.

Key Lessons Learned

The following main strategic lessons stem from the RFP II (and I):

1.       The RFP I and II have illustrated that the establishment of a greenfield financial institution
constitutes the most promising approach to develop a viable rural finance system in an early transition
country, characterised by the situation that prevailed in the Kyrgyz Republic in the late 1990's:

·        A defunct rural finance system with a dismal credit discipline that resulted from the former
socialist economy and subsidised supply-led government interventions.

·        An infant private banking sector with no branch network in rural areas, low level of banking
technologies and little understanding of the rural economy, corporate governance problems and, as a
consequence, little capacity for a down-scaling approach.

·        No development of a viable first-tier structure of a co-operative financial system. The development
of a co-operative finance system was started with substantial donor support With funds from the ADB and
German technical assistance. after the establishment of KAFC. The development of a co-operative financial
system is not recommended as only approach for financial sector development as it takes a very long time
to develop a viable two- or three-tier structure. Nevertheless, it is perceived as an important complementary
approach that will strengthen the long-term sustainability and depth of the overall financial sector.



                                                     - 41 -

The IDA had tested successfully the greenfield approach with an initial state-owned agricultural company
during the early transition phase 1994 in Latvia that was later merged with the Land Bank. Both cases in
Latvia and the Kyrgyz Republic demonstrated that a state-owned retail financial institution can achieve
significant outreach to farmers in a commercially viable manner much faster than the restructuring and
subsequent privatisation of a `socialist' state-owned agricultural bank as experienced in Lithuania between
1995 and 2002.

2.       The set up of a greenfield financial institution requires a long-term planning and commitment that
should be communicated to, and supported by the recipient government, the regulatory and supervisory
authority and other key stakeholders, including other donors, from the very onset. One or more detailed exit
options should be agreed upon as an essential part of the project agreement to ensure sustainability upon
project completion. Any financial institution needs to develop a healthy asset-liability structure to sustain
its growth by diversifying its liability sources.       Project planning and agreement with the recipient
government should include all essential pre-conditions for long-term sustainability, particularly to:

·        Select the most appropriate type of banking institution for the greenfield financial institution that is
compatible with its mandate and scope of operation and to obtain the corresponding license as soon as all
licensing requirements are met. A commercial bank constitutes the most suitable type of banking institution
for KAFC as clearly supported by its business plan 2004-2010.

·        Facilitate the mobilisation of international investors for the greenfield financial institution (to fill
the medium- to long-term gap of qualified and socially-oriented domestic investors) that bring in the
required professional expertise and good corporate governance.

3. If a project has a potentially significant impact on the national (rural) finance sector as the RFP I and II
    with total credit lines of over US$ 30 million for a country with a population of five million only, the
    project need to engage in a proactive dialogue with the recipient government, the regulatory and
    supervisory authority and influential international institutions to overcome essential constraints in the
    regulatory and legislative framework that impede significantly the development of the (rural) financial
    sector. In the case of the Kyrgyz Republic, the following three core constraints of the current
    regulatory and legislative framework call for urgent attention, but seem to have been identified with the
    necessary political attention only since the preparation of the draft Medium-Term Micro-Finance
    Strategy 2006-2010 this summer:

·        The significant bias against the mobilisation of savings in terms of (1) the current legislation for
credit unions Refer to the Law on Credit Co-operatives of October 1999 and the NBKR provision no. 16/1
of May 2003 regarding an additional deposit taking licence. It is planned to revise the Law by the end of
2006., restricting them substantially in taking deposits, (2) the denial (by withholding the commercial bank
licence) to let KAFC start accepting public deposits despite its readiness to do so in terms of staff training
and management systems and (3) a still missing deposit insurance system. This bias may be rooted in the
negative experience of policy-makers with failed pyramid schemes, but it reinforces the dependence on
donor credit lines and constrains significantly the growth of the financial sector with subsequent lower
economic growth rates than what would otherwise possible.

·        Legal inconsistencies Resulting from the incompatibility of newly introduced laws on commercial
legislation of a market-oriented economy (such as mortgage, contract enforcement and so forth) with the
remaining Civil Code and other laws from the former Soviet Union., inefficient organisation and procedures



                                                      - 42 -

for registering land titles, mortgages and pledges, as well as a low efficiency of the judiciary system result
in very high transaction costs for both clients and financial institutions in concluding loan agreements that
are backed by physical collateral. Client interviews revealed that some clients paid up to 8% of the loan
amount just for the State Registration Office in receiving the land title required for the mortgage
registration. Furthermore, most clients interviewed had to wait two to three months from loan application to
loan disbursement.

Necessary improvements are identified in the action plan of the draft Micro-Finance Strategy 2006-2010,
such as (1) simplifying the mechanism of pledging and seizing agricultural land, (2) locating public notary,
state registration and central pledge registration into one building, (3) reducing administrative charges, (4)
introducing a pledge registration for a certain period independent from a particular loan and so forth.

·        The current approach of regulation according to type of financial institution instead of type of
banking activity is creating distortions at the detriment of financial sector development. Credit unions are
`over-regulated' and micro-financed organisations are `under-regulated'. This has led to credit unions
changing their legal status and thus undermining the development of a co-operative financial system.




                                                      - 43 -

Additional Annex 10. KAFC Institutional Development Results

INTERNATIONALACCOUNTINGSTANDARDS
Thous.KGS
                          INCOMESTATEMENT                        1997       1998       1999        2000       2001         2002        2003         2004       06/30/2005*
Interest income from loans and leases                              2,517.0   21,984.0    47,173.0  115,481.0  154,693.0    186,077.0   224,188.0     253,385.0    139,896.0
Other interest income                                              1,894.0   17,632.0    37,476.0    8,871.0    6,987.0      1,444.0      2,516.0      2,468.0        463.0
Other operating income                                             6,648.0    7,850.0     6,913.0   12,648.0   14,246.0     16,491.0     17,962.0     13,326.0      4,743.0
                         Totaloperatingincome                     11,059.0  47,466.0    91,562.0  137,000.0   175,926.0   204,012.0    244,666.0     269,179.0   145,102.0
Interest expenditure for subsidiary loans                              0.0    8,192.0    28,367.0   39,386.0   32,369.0     21,604.0     30,104.0     54,744.0     23,014.0
Other interest expenditure                                                                             116.0                                             171.0
Personnel costs                                                    2,780.0   13,053.0    16,254.0   29,041.0   32,516.0     33,820.0     43,670.0     58,807.0     28,744.0
Administrative expenses                                            7,970.0   12,353.0    13,771.0   19,500.0   23,445.0     23,322.0     29,003.0     34,937.0     14,430.0
Provisions for loan losses                                           874.0   12,623.0    13,381.0   37,352.0   39,519.0     15,014.0     27,426.0      3,609.0      7,313.0
Other operational costs                                            1,492.0   10,629.0     2,378.0    4,438.0       882.0    11,005.0     16,230.0      8,884.0      6,845.0
                     Total operating expenditures                 13,116.0   56,850.0    74,151.0  129,833.0  128,731.0    104,765.0   146,433.0     161,152.0     80,346.0
       => Net income/(loss)before tax & extraord. items           -2,057.0   -9,384.0    17,411.0    7,167.0   47,195.0     99,247.0     98,233.0    108,027.0     64,756.0
Incometax                                                                                     0.0    7,927.0   22,864.0     21,436.0     19,605.0     21,124.0     11,971.0
Deferredincometax                                                  1,281.0    3,777.0                1,695.0                                                             0.0
                            Netincome/(loss)                      -3,338.0   -5,607.0    7,789.0    -2,455.0   24,331.0    77,811.0     78,628.0      86,903.0    52,785.0


                             BALANCESHEET
Cash and Correspondent accounts                                   14,848.0   12,870.0     9,842.0    1,584.0   25,092.0      4,465.0      2,303.0     42,263.0     40,756.0
Treasury Bills and Notes                                           9,976.0   56,959.0    18,874.0   51,292.0         0.0         0.0     50,483.0      1,291.0           0.0
DuefromCreditinstitutions                                                                65,827.0   28,397.0         0.0    73,514.0     49,236.0      4,000.0      4,000.0
Loans                                                             31,843.0  126,524.0  250,486.0   475,780.0  638,095.0  1,041,491.0  1,316,725.0  1,527,700.0  1,699,361.0
minus: Provisions                                                   -874.0  -13,497.0   -20,772.0  -48,379.0   -28,002.0   -40,458.0    -51,692.0    -56,136.0    -51,360.0
Fixed assets                                                      19,742.0   27,498.0    29,869.0   97,085.0  102,130.0    117,366.0   121,606.0     114,202.0    115,247.0
Otherassets                                                        4,846.0   13,783.0    26,965.0   42,409.0   42,036.0      7,732.0     23,621.0     72,595.0     79,232.0
                                Totalassets                       80,381.0 224,137.0   381,091.0   648,168.0  779,351.0  1,204,110.0 1,512,282.0   1,705,915.0 1,887,236.0
Creditsfromcom.BanksandotherFIs                                                                                                                        1,699.0      2,499.0
DepositsandloanfromtheGOK                                          2,808.0  115,214.0  197,806.0   273,821.0  374,119.0    655,721.0   875,769.0     946,628.0  1,082,030.0
Equitycontributions                                                                                                         48,973.0     76,396.0    107,061.0    110,829.0
Otherliabilities                                                   8,708.0    4,020.0    24,862.0  129,336.0   99,573.0    105,370.0   108,013.0     127,246.0    115,811.0
                              Total liabilities                   11,516.0  119,234.0  222,668.0   403,157.0  473,692.0   810,064.0  1,060,178.0   1,182,634.0 1,311,169.0
Capital                                                           59,089.0   98,437.0  141,289.0   150,000.0  150,000.0    300,000.0   300,000.0     300,000.0    300,000.0
Reserves                                                           9,776.0    6,466.0    17,134.0   95,011.0  155,659.0     94,046.0   152,104.0     223,281.0    276,067.0
                                Total equity                      68,865.0  104,903.0  158,423.0   245,011.0  305,659.0   394,046.0    452,104.0     523,281.0   576,067.0
                      Totalliabilitiesandequity                   80,381.0 224,137.0   381,091.0   648,168.0  779,351.0  1,204,110.0 1,512,282.0   1,705,915.0 1,887,236.0
                                                                                                                                             -0.4
SUMMARYBALANCESHEET
Total assets                                                      80,381.0 224,137.0   381,091.0  648,168.0   779,351.0  1,204,110.0 1,512,282.0   1,705,915.0 1,887,236.0
Total capital                                                     68,865.0  104,903.0  158,423.0   245,011.0  305,659.0    394,046.0   452,104.0     523,281.0    576,067.0
Net loan portfolio                                                30,969.0  113,027.0  229,714.0   427,401.0  610,093.0  1,001,033.0 1,265,033.0   1,471,564.0  1,648,001.0
Netincome                                                         -3,338.0   -5,607.0     7,789.0   -2,455.0   24,331.0     77,811.0     78,628.0     86,903.0     52,785.0

CAPITALADEQUACY
Value of risk-weighted assets (NBKR regulations)                  46,517.8  153,640.6  301,128.7   585,867.6  759,863.4  1,147,740.5 1,421,842.8   1,669,872.1  1,853,444.5
Capital adequacy (total capital)                                   104.2%      64.0%      52.9%       44.4%       40.2%       34.8%        31.8%        31.3%         31.1%
Capital adequacy (Tier-1 capital)                                  105.3%      63.7%      46.9%       42.4%       37.5%       28.0%        21.1%        18.0%         20.9%

COST OF FUNDS
Interest expenditure for subsidiary loan (above)                       0.0    8,192.0    28,367.0   39,386.0   32,369.0     21,604.0     30,104.0     54,744.0     23,014.0
Average balance of GOK loans                                       1,404.0   59,011.0  156,510.0   235,813.5  323,970.0    514,920.0   765,745.0     911,198.5  1,014,329.0
Income statement (book value) cost of GOK loans                      0.0%      13.9%      18.1%       16.7%       10.0%        4.2%         3.9%         6.0%          2.3%
Portfolio Yield                                                     15.8%      27.8%      25.0%       31.8%       27.8%       22.2%        19.0%        17.8%          8.7%
Effective margin                                                    15.8%      13.9%        6.9%      15.1%       17.8%       18.0%        15.1%        11.8%          6.4%

PROFITABILITY AND EFFICIENCY
Operating return on average assets employed                          -1.3%      -1.5%       1.4%       0.3%        1.7%        2.5%         1.8%         1.7%          0.9%
Net return on average assets employed (ROA)                          -2.1%      -0.9%       0.6%       -0.1%       0.9%        2.0%         1.4%         1.4%          0.7%
Operating return on average equity                                   -1.5%      -2.7%       3.3%       0.9%        4.3%        7.1%         5.8%         5.5%          2.9%
Net return on average equity (ROE)                                   -2.4%      -1.6%       1.5%       -0.3%       2.2%        5.6%         4.6%         4.5%          2.4%

Administrative expenses excl. loan provision (cost of lending)    12,242.0   36,035.0    32,403.0   52,979.0   56,843.0     68,147.0     88,903.0    102,628.0     50,019.0
Administrative efficiency (excl. loan provision)                    76.9%      45.5%      17.2%       14.6%       10.2%        8.1%         7.5%         7.2%          3.1%
Administrative expenses incl. loan provision (cost of lending)    13,116.0   48,658.0    45,784.0   90,331.0   96,362.0     83,161.0   116,329.0     106,237.0     57,332.0
Administrative efficiency (incl. loan provision)                    82.4%      61.4%      24.3%       24.9%       17.3%        9.9%         9.9%         7.5%          3.6%
Note: calculated against the average loan porfolio


SUBSIDYDEPENDENCEINDEX(SDI)
Concessional borrowed funds (average), a                           1,404.0   79,183.5  188,505.0   363,133.0  556,937.5    839,793.0 1,179,108.0   1,422,212.5  1,613,530.5
Market reference rate, m a/                                         18.1%      23.7%      22.1%       16.8%       10.8%        7.0%         4.1%         3.6%          3.6%
Weighted average annual concessional int rate, c (above)             0.0%      12.7%      18.1%       16.7%        9.3%        3.7%         3.7%         6.0%          4.6%
Average annual equity, e                                          34,432.5   86,884.0  131,663.0   201,717.0  275,335.0    349,852.5   423,075.0     487,692.5    549,674.0
Reported annual profit, p                                         -3,338.0   -5,607.0     7,789.0   -2,455.0   24,331.0     77,811.0     78,628.0     86,903.0     52,785.0
Sum of all other annual subsidies, k                                   0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0
Average outstanding loan portfolio, LP                            15,921.5   79,183.5  188,505.0   363,133.0  556,937.5    839,793.0 1,179,108.0   1,422,212.5  1,613,530.5
Average on-lending interest rate, I                                 15.3%      26.0%      24.9%       32.0%       24.6%       19.3%        18.1%        18.1%         17.0%
SDI=(a(m-c)+((e*m)-p)+k)/(LP*I)                                    402.2%     169.8%      61.4%       31.5%       10.1%      -15.7%       -26.4%       -40.3%        -17.9%

a/MarketreferencerateistheaverageannualizedKGSdeposit
ratepaidbythecommercialbankingsector
*Unaudited




                                                                                          - 44 -

- 45 -

