Report No. PID7327
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Rural Finance II
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           AC - Agricultural Credit
Project                          KGPA64585
Borrower(s)                      Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared                January 21, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         March 30, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 24, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government of Kyrgystan has pursued reform oriented macro and
sectoral policies. Government intervention has largely disappeared, price and
trade have been liberalized and state procurement has been reduced to an
insignifanct level. Recognizing the importance of the agricultural sector
which accounts for more than 45 percent of GDP, the Government's over-arching
objective is to establish long-term sustainable growth in the sector. The two
broad directions of the Government's development strategy are private sector
development and poverty reduction. For private sector growth, priority is
given to agriculture and the re-vitalization of agro-industry, which is
appropriate in view of the large part of the population that depends on
agriculture for its livelihood and the country's comparative advantages in
agriculture. Emphasis is also placed on improving the regulatory environment
for business. For poverty reduction, the Government envisions a complementary
strategy of increasing agricultural productivity to increase economic rates of
return from currently depressed levels, raising the incomes of the majority of
the population that lives in rural areas, together with improving the
targeting of social assistance.
Challenges grew even greater with the recent Russian economic crisis.
The Government aims to act quickly and protect banks from effects of financial
instability and to strengthen systems and human capital; and to provide
institutional development to support expansion necessary to support growing
real sector needs in agriculture. Although the country quickly defused
exchange rate pressures through a combination of interventions in the foreign
exchange market and a gradual depreciation of the currency, the Kyrgyz
Republic's exports to Russia, which consist mainly of agricultural products,
are likely to be reduced. In addition, exports to other CIS countries, e.g.,
Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, are also expected to decline due to the reduction
of income in these countries. This compounded the negative impact of the
crisis on economic performance and living standards of the Kyrgyz people.
The proposed Rural Finance II Project is consistent the Bank Group's
country assistance strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic, as fully outlined in the
IBRD, IDA and IFC Joint Country Assistance Strategy Memorandum dated April 14,
1998. It was envisaged that RFP II would be supported upon successful
completion of the first Rural Finance Project (early FY02). However, based on



RFP's strong performance, earlier than expected completion of the credit, and
most of all the country needs, it has been decided to accelerate processing of
the second project (in FY00). The broad objective of this strategy is to
establish long-term sustainable growth to reduce poverty, and to provide the
Government with the means necessary to improve basic human services and
institutional capacity and to improve Government finances. The RFP II, which
is consistent with the Government's overall reform program, would contribute
to: (a) establishment of a fiscally sustainable rural finance system that
will provide critically needed capital for inputs and fixed investment to
foster economic growth in the agricultural sector; (b) accelerated development
of private-sector activities in rural areas; (c) improvement of the efficiency
of the sector to compete in a market economy; and (d) implementation of
effective, well- targeted, and commercially viable private investment designed
to generate income, alleviate poverty, and improve the living standards of the
rural population.
2. Objectives
The main development objectives of the proposed Second Rural Finance
Project are to: (a) further develop a sustainable rural financial system that
will serve a broad range of beneficiaries, including small-scale farmers; and
(b) reduce poverty in rural areas by supporting viable economic activities
(on- and off-farm) to generate income.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Since its operations commenced in the Kyrgyz Republic in 1992, IDA has
supported the Government in the design, analysis, and realization of its
development strategies through specific lending and non-lending operations.
On non-lending activities, IDA has completed an Agricultural Sector Review
(FY95) and a follow-up Agriculture Policy Review (FY98), and a Strategy for
Rural Growth and Poverty Alleviation (FY98) . On the lending front, the
Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (FY96) has been
successfully completed, and the CAS clearly identifies support to the
agricultural sector as critical for economic growth.
IDA has drawn upon its extensive experience in poverty alleviation and
natural resources management from many other countries, most recently from
Latvia, Albania, Bosnia, and other countries. Specifically, lessons learned
from these real experience confirm that a well targeted poverty alleviation
intervention based on market principles can be effective and should be
supported.   IDA will play an important coordinating role with other donors,
particularly EU-TACIS, in designing rural development strategies and
institutional capacities that are compatible with a market economy.
4. Description
A. Rural Finance Component (Component cost -- T.B.D.)
A.1 Commercial Credit Line (Sub-component cost -- T.B.D.)
This component will provide a credit line to KAFC (and other eligible
commercial banks during the second half of the project implementation if and
when they become eligible) to lend for working capital and investment at
prevailing market interest rates under commercial terms. The cost of funding
to KAFC would be based on the prevailing markets rates that are applicable.
The reference rate(s), e.g. interbank rates, Central Bank discount rates,
long-term bonds or deposit rates, etc. to on-lend to financial intermediaries
- 2 -



will be determined during appraisal. Under component B, KAFC (and future
commercial banks that may participate) would receive TA to strengthen their
capacity in project appraisal and risk management. Intended ultimate
beneficiaries are those who have commercially viable and bankable projects
with adequate collateral, adequate financial rates of return, and demonstrated
repayment capacity. Borrowers applying for credit will have to meet strict
eligibility requirements related to their ownership, share holding, and
management. Continuing with the practice set forth in the first RFP credit
line operation, there will be a system of prior review to assure that
eligibility criteria are enforced. KAFC and other participating financial
institutions will maintain full autonomy in the selection of borrowers,
approval of sub-projects, and determination of lending terms and learn the
lending risks.
Anticipated sub-projects would include, among others: on-farm investment
for development of agricultural production, including the provision of
seasonal working capital as appropriate; investment for development of
processing, storage, packing, marketing, and other related agricultural and
forestry service sectors; and other rural income-generating activities that
have proven positive cash-flows supported by sound business plans.
A.2 Special Credit Line for Small-Farmers Credit Outreach Program (Sub-
component cost -- T.B.D.).
This component would provide small loans to private farmers, groups, and
cooperatives. A maximum cumulative loan to one single borrower will be
limited to (TBD) SOMs. This component would help overcome the problems of
inadequate collateral by giving individuals opportunities to accumulate assets
for future collateral and encourage commercial banks to lend to small-scale
rural entrepreneurs. The final on-lending rates to ultimate borrowers will be
at prevailing market commercial rates. However, further discussions with the
GOK are required to agree on how to integrate the proposed project with other
concessional term loans being provided by other donors and UNDP. An agreement
would be sought that special targeted support would be based on equal access,
transparency and a sunset clause for eventual phasing out.
B. Institutional Development Component (Component cost -- T.B.D.)
B.1 TA support for KAFC (Sub-component cost -- T.B.D.)
This sub-component will provide technical assistance for institutional
development of the KAFC covering areas such as strengthening lending
operations, risk management, asset and liability management, internal audit
and control, management capacity, personnel management, MIS and operational
guidelines and manuals. Additionally, KAFC will also receive practical
training in assessing the markets for various products that it may finance.
B.2. Other TA support (Sub-component cost -- T.B.D.)
This project component will also provide institutional support to address
constraints on credit flows to rural sectors. Credit is not flowing to
agriculture in part because: (a) banks lack adequate experience or capacity to
appraise and monitor agricultural projects; (b) transaction costs are high due
to inefficient loan processing; and (c) agricultural projects or small-scale
rural businesses are perceived to be riskier than they actually are because
banks have no prior experience in appraising agricultural projects or dealing
with agricultural collateral. In order to overcome these constraints, this
component will support institutional reforms in this area through:
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of other commercial banks
(likely to commence during the second half of the project implementation).
Candidate banks which are interested in lending to agricultural clients will
be sought and once they are identified, will receive training in agricultural
loan appraisal and supervision. Training will also include assessing
- 3 -



commercial opportunities in the agricultural sector and procedures to assure
adherence to the GOL and Bank environmental guidelines and procurement
procedures.
TA and training to develop the registration of security interests in
crops and other agriculture related assets, e.g. crop pledging mechanisms,
warehouse receipts, and accounts receivable.
Development of rural business development services for business planning,
developing bankable projects, marketing, and other private sector development
support services in rural areas. Potential partners include small enterprise
development centers, NGOs, etc. Provision of these services will be based on
a fee structure to be paid by clients and lead to a partial cost-recovery.
Other costs would be covered by the Borrower or donor grants.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               T.B.D.
IBRD                                     T.B.D.
IDA                                      T.B.D.
Total Project Cost                       T.B.D.
6. Implementation
Implementation Period. Implementation of the project will be approximately
five years.
Executing Agency. The Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Company (KAFC) will be the
principal executing agency for the project. Establishing a PIU in the
National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (or elsewhere) for overseeing project
implementation would be discussed. The PIU would be needed to independently
supervise the activities of KAFC and other commercial banks (in future).
Other responsibilities of the PIU are to: (a) oversee and coordinate project
activities and ensure that project implementation is consistent with stated
project objectives; (b) prepare and oversee implementation of annual work
programs, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, and procurement of goods and
services; (c) implement the institutional development component including
coordination with relevant ministries, NGOs, and donors.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The PIU will carry
out financial accounting and will maintain separate project accounts and
records for project related expenditures in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS). The PIU will be responsible for the preparation
of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and financial reports. Accounts will be
audited annually according to International Standards on Auditing (ISA) by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and to the Government. Audit
reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the
calendar year (fiscal year of the Kyrgyz Government). The appointment of
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation will be the primary responsibility of the PIU. It will design
and implement a simple monitoring and reporting system to gather information
on the activities the KAFC, the institutional development component and the
borrowers supported by the project. The monitoring results will be reviewed
- 4 -



in quarterly reports which will be consolidated into biannual reports and
submitted for Bank review. The M&E system will be guided by the logical
framework presented in Annex 1 and specific output and impact indicators to be
monitored will be agreed upon. The system will also evaluate progress in
implementing the annual work programs to be prepared by the PIU. The M&E
system will be key in providing the lessons of experience needed for changes
to the design of the second phase of the project. In this connection, a mid-
term review for the project will be held by no later than December 2001. An
Implementation Completion Report will be prepared, at most, six months after
the final disbursement of the credit (estimated December 2003).
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the project would depend on multiple factors: at the
sub-project level, financial analysis should confirm sustainability of each
sub-project, and KAFC must maintain a quality portfolio through prudent
operations. Appropriate TA will be provided to enhance the performance of
KAFC. At the policy level, consistent and well designed rural development
policies and poverty alleviation need to be implemented in a coordinated
manner with all concerned agencies. At the local level, sustainability of the
project would be linked to improvement in labor productivity and job
opportunity, and the project's participatory approaches to promote community
involvement would enhance the sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned from the experience of the IDA and other donors have
been incorporated in the design of the RFP II.
Finance Related Lessons: The experience of IDA and other donors demonstrates
the following lessons:
Macro-economic stabilization, market liberalization and privatization are all
pre-requisites for effective financial interventions. These basic conditions
have been met in the Kyrgyz Republic:
Rural credit projects often face difficulties because: (a) profitable
opportunities for lending are lacking; (b) banks are unaccustomed to rural
lending and do not know the clientele; (c) the risks are high, particularly if
the lending institution concentrates lending only on agriculture and/or in a
limited geographical area; and (d) the transaction costs of rural lending are
high relative to other lending opportunities. The project will address these
issues by providing business development support services to farmers and small
business owners aimed at making the changes required to create profitable
lending opportunities. Selection of financial intermediaries in the project
would emphasize banks that are diversified and have the capacity to undertake
agricultural lending in the context of a balanced portfolio, both from a
sectoral and a geographical perspective. Finally, through training of KAFC
staff on appraisal and supervision of agricultural loans, the project will
help mitigate the costs and risks of agricultural lending.
There should be multiple financial institutions involved in a credit line
project to increase competition among banks and to reduce the cost of
borrowing to ultimate borrowers. Although at inception of the project only
KAFC will participate, other commercial banks will be actively sought to
participate in the RFP II.
-5-



A credit line operation must be accompanied by complementary TA support which
is simple and focused to enhance loan appraisal and risk assessment, as well
as to support clients in developing "bankable" projects. Therefore, a
comprehensive TA support program is being included in the RFP II.
Technical assistance to financial institutions should be provided by credible
banks with track records, and not by consulting companies. The experiences of
the recently restructured Kyrgyz Private Enterprise Support Project (Cr. 2717-
KG) clearly demonstrates this point.
Improvement of the collateral system based on legal ownership of property is a
prerequisite to a successful credit operation. The RFP II will provide TA to
diversify the collateral basis including moveable properties, warehouse
receipts, etc. In addition, an option of non-secured lending would be
explored for small size retail lending.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
No major environmental issues are expected, but given the somewhat
unpredictable outcome of a participatory process, some minor issues may
develop during project implementation, including the need for building
permits, etc.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager Hoonae Kim
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202/473-2550
Fax: 202/614-0410
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 12, 1999.
- 6 -



