Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3259 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Finance Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 1, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3259 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1999, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
Page  2
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a recipient of a Sub-loan under Part A of the 
Project;
(b)
“Charter” means the charter, articles of incorporation, articles of 
association, founders’ agreement, bylaws, and any other foundation document of KAFC, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“KAFC” means the Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation, a Kyrgyz joint 
stock company established by the Borrower pursuant to Governmental Resolution No. 303, 
dated July 2, 1996, and licensed by the NBK  on March 19, 1997;
(f)
“NBK” means the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic, the central bank of 
the Borrower;
(g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Part A.3 (a) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as this manual may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association;
(h)
“PFI” means either KAFC (in its role as provider of Sub-loans) or a 
participating financial institution selected for the provisions of Sub-loans under 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Rural Credit Guidelines and the 
provisions of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Rural Credit Guidelines” means the rural credit guidelines approved by 
the Borrower on May 14, 1999, which govern the provision and management of Sub-loans 
under Part A of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
“Som” means the currency of the Borrower;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(m)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI to a 
Beneficiary or a group of Beneficiaries for a Sub-project out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, in accordance with the Rural Credit Guidelines and the provisions of Part C of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(n)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
(o)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the PFIs in accordance with the provisions of Part B of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided 
under any Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on  May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2009, and ending May 15, 2034. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2019 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
Page  4
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative and rural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  
the  goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
Page  5
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
Page  6
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of KAFC or its ability to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower, NBK or any other authority having jurisdiction over KAFC 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KAFC or for the 
suspension of its operations or licenses; and 
(c)
the Operational Manual or the Rural Credit Guidelines shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the Association’s prior 
consent. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory 
to the Association, has been entered into by the Borrower and KAFC and is legally 
binding on the parties thereto in accordance with the terms thereof.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
245156 NUR KH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Page  7
By /s/ Nourbek Jeenbaev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
       % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  
Goods under Part 
    370,000
100% of foreign
 
       B of the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured
locally
(2)  Sub-loans   
100% of amounts 
disbursed by PFIs on
or before June 30, 2001,
and 80% of amounts
thereafter 
(a)  under Part A (i)
   8,120,000
       of the Project
(b)  under Part A (ii)
   2,220,000
       of the Project
(3)  Consultants’ Services
     230,000
100%
     and Training under Part B
     of the Project
(4)  Unallocated
     160,000
        TOTAL
         11,100,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  8
made in respect of payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Borrower has: (i) caused KAFC to adopt 
an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, regarding the overall lending 
operations of KAFC; (b) completed a first round of training programs, satisfactory to 
the Association, under Part B (i) of the Project; and (c) completed a technical 
evaluation, satisfactory to the Association, of a management information system, and 
prepared a timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for the installation of such 
system, for staff training, and for the transfer of all accounting information into 
such system.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-loans; (b) goods 
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) training; and (d) 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, or awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II, Part C.2 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, for consulting firms, and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
its central bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Page  9
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
Page  10
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in developing a 
sustainable rural finance system and in supporting viable economic activities in rural 
areas.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Rural Finance
(i)
Provision, through the PFIs, of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for the 
financing of  eligible Sub-projects.
(ii)
Provision, through the PFIs, of Sub-loans to groups of Beneficiaries for 
the financing of eligible Sub-projects, regarding group lending under a small-farmers 
credit outreach program.
Part B:
Institutional Development
(i)
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training to improve the 
capacity of KAFC and its staff members with respect to operating systems and 
procedures, including a management information system.
(ii)
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training to develop 
group lending arrangements. 
(iii)
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training to develop 
small and medium scale rural business support services.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,  September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and  the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods under: (i) Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, and (ii) Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Commercial Practices
Goods under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured at competitive prices in accordance with 
established commercial practices of the respective Beneficiaries, provided that such 
practices involve obtaining quotations from more than one supplier; and with due 
account being taken, in addition to prices, of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of maintenance and 
spare parts thereof. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I, Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
Page  12
procedures referred to in Section I, Part C.1 (ii) of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part B (ii) and (iii) of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification
Services under Part B (i) of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  13
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms: (i) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; or (ii) awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II, Part C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall assign to KAFC the day-to-day Project administration, 
management and coordination, including activities related to procurement, accounting, 
disbursement, auditing, reporting, as well as the preparation and selection of 
proposed Sub-projects, and the monitoring and evaluation of Sub-projects. Throughout 
the implementation of the Project, KAFC shall be maintained with a sufficient number 
of qualified staff, consultants, adequate resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall cause KAFC to prepare and furnish to the Association, 
starting in January 2000, semi-annual reports, satisfactory to the Association, on the 
status of Project implementation.
SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility Criteria of PFIs, and Principal Terms and 
Conditions Applicable to Subsidiary Loans Agreements and Sub-loans
Part A:
Eligibility Criteria of PFIs
Page  14
A banking, financial or cooperative institution may be selected by the Borrower, 
with the agreement of the Association, as a PFI under the Project, in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Rural Credit Guidelines.
Part B:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The Borrower, acting through its Ministry of Finance, shall conclude a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each PFI under the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Rural Credit Guidelines, which shall include:
(a)
the obligation of the PFI to use the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
exclusively in the provision of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project;
(b) 
the denomination of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan in Som;
(c)
the obligation of the PFI to repay the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding over a period not exceeding fifteen (15) years and with 
interest at a rate to be determined at such level as shall ensure a reasonable spread 
for the PFI in relation to the interest rate applicable to the Sub-loans provided by 
it;
(d)
the obligation of the PFI to use amounts repaid to it under the Sub-loan 
contracts and not required to meet the PFI’s debt service obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the provision of further Sub-loans under Part A of the 
Project; and
(e)
the undertaking by the PFI to apply the provisions contained in the Rural 
Credit Guidelines in determining the terms and conditions of Sub-loans provided by it 
under the Project.
Part C:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Sub-loans shall be provided in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Rural Credit Guidelines. Except as the Borrower and the Association may 
otherwise agree:
(a)
Sub-loans shall be provided on the basis of standard contracts agreed 
upon with the Borrower and the Association, which shall include terms, including rates 
of interest, consistent with the requirements set forth in the Rural Credit 
Guidelines; 
(b)
the PFIs shall each obtain the Borrower’s and Association’s prior 
approval of the first three Sub-loans proposed by it, and subsequently of any Sub-loan 
proposed to be provided by it in an amount equivalent to $200,000 or more, and shall, 
for this purpose, furnish to the Borrower and the Association an application 
including: (A) a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the Sub-project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed from the proceeds 
of the Credit; (B) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (C) such other information as the 
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request;
(c)
with respect to Sub-loans under Part A (ii) of the Project, the PFIs 
shall each furnish to the Borrower quarterly summary reports listing the Sub-loans 
provided by it in the preceding quarter and evidencing compliance with the terms and 
conditions for such Sub-loans as set forth in the Rural Credit Guidelines; 
(d)
the Borrower shall ensure that, in the provision and administration of 
Sub-loans under Part A of the Project, KAFC shall adhere to the requirements set forth 
in the Operational Manual; and
(e)
the PFIs shall carry out appropriate environmental assessments for each 
Sub-project, and shall ensure that each Sub-project meets the environmental 
requirements of national and local authorities and is consistent with other applicable 
environmental policies. 
Page  15
