Page  1
August
24,
1999
H.E. Sultan Mederov
Minister of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard
58
Bishkek
720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for Rural Finance II Project
Grant Number TF
025803
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate the IDA
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to
make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred eighty-two thousand nine hundred 
United States Dollars
($382,900) (the Grant) to Kyrgyz Republic (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry
out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Kiyoshi Kodera
Country Director
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Turkmenistan
Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By
/s/
Sultan Mederov
Date:
August 18, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Second Rural 
Finance Project, which has as main objective the expansion of the rural financial
services through Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
(KAFC) in order to reduce 
poverty by creating a special window to offer group borrowing based on social
collateral
(the Project). The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(a)
Development of medium-term strategies including obtaining a banking 
license, and eventual privatization plan, during implementation of the Project;
(b)
Preparation of a business plan to achieve the above strategies and a plan 
of actions to achieve the business targets;
(c)
Improvement of Operational Procedures to streamline the lending and 
administrative procedures including simplification of all lending and non-lending 
Page  2
documents, and updating of the operational manuals reflecting more diversified lending
activities;
(d)
Designing a training program for staff in applying the new operational 
procedures including a logically sequenced time-table for implementation under the 
project;
(e)
Carrying out an assessment of the Management Information System (MIS) and 
identification of available options for its improvement by designing the MIS to the
specific needs of KAFC;
(f)
Carrying out an assessment, including specific recommendations, on how to 
improve portfolio monitoring and evaluation procedures to ensure timely loan
repayment;
(g)
Designing a technical assistance sub-component to strengthen KAFC
’s
capacity in group lending based on social collateral;
(h)
Identifying and preparing additional institutional capacity building 
activities to be implemented under the project to further strengthen KAFC.
(i)
Development of simple and user-friendly business plan formats for 
potential borrowers;
(j)
Carrying out a "needs assessment" of private farmers and small 
entrepreneurs, and designing community level support network schemes that will be
established under the Project; and
(k)
Carrying out an evaluation of the legal and regulatory framework 
regarding introduction of moveable properties and other more flexible collateral.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and study tour required 
for the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. 
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by October 31, 1999. After 
that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the
Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall
have been suspended. IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive 
Grant funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or
(b) the Recipient has withdrawn 
its request for IDA’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall have no right to any
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
Page  3
