. 1 j' . *                                                                                               1 J    F  f
1   ; 87nn-'t                                                                    j0  1    *  itti§ww Z-;><@,
ow                      ~~ ~~~~~' 19v                     ¾  rs    >  ,  ' '49+>   ;h}
*rj              ,Vr  CE  <L<                              e vor .b           . 2snede   VVcs9
3                                                                                                                                      ,.
1
A~~~~~~~
I
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-                                                                                                            :., rrte W     s
j       ~THE WORLF     AK                 ,
i,~~ ~~~ ; ,.'NJ:~>''~ v                                                          'V'    ~    -
$ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-                                 .
i,   . .   .   .   .~4 .                                                           .    z4                    ~  4



a~~~Ja
Daeveloping Countries of the
Wider Caribbean Region
Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-Generated Waste
Project Document
Jujne 1994
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEFI assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warniing. pollution of international waters.
destruction of biodiversity. and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Dlevelopm4'nI Programme. the UnitedrNations Environ ment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended projtct-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank r*.
1818 H Street. NW
Washington- DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Developing Countries of the
Wider Caribbean Region
Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-Generated Waste
Project Document
June 1994
U
MHE WORID BANK



Document of
TEIE WORLD BANK
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12868 LAC
GLOBAL ENVIRONNT FACILrTY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGION
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT m
OF THE
INERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEALOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 3.9 MILUON
TO
THE INTERNATIONAL MARME ORGANIZATION
FOR A
WIDER CARIBBEAN INTrIArTVE FOR SHIP-GENERATED WASTE PROJECr
TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN
THE DEVELOPING COUNTRIES OF THE WIDER CARIBBEAN REGION
JUNE 30, 1994
nfrasnucture Opeations Division
Country Department m
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
[LV dowm ua rufrketed disrb&uflo and may be used by red-bpiss only in the performance of
thew r elfi dwt.   cntsmutn may not otherwise be dislosed wihout World Bank auam..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All transactions to be designated in US$
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DCWCR                   -      Devoping Countries of the WCR (includes the
following Caribbean countries with GDP per capita of
less than US$4,000 in 1989): Antigua & Barbuda;
Belize; Colombia; Costa Rica; Cuba; Dominica;
Dominican Republic; Grenada; Guatemala; Guyana;
Haiti; Honduras; Jamaica; Mexico; Nlicaragua; Panama;
St. Kitts & Nevis; St Lucia; StL Vmcent & the
Grenadines; Suriname; Trinidad & Tobago; Venezuela
GEE                     -      Global Environment Facility
GJEE                    -     Global Enviment Trust Fund
IMO                     -      Internatonal Maritime Organiizaon
LIE    ,                -      Limited International Bidding
MARPOL 73/78            -      International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution from Ships
MOE                     -      Ministries of Environment
MOF                     -      Ministries of Finance
NGOs                    -      Non Governmental Organizations
OECS                    -      Organization of Eastem Caribbean States
PCU                     -      Project Coordinafing Unit
PPA                     -      Project Preparation Advance, grant provided by GEE
SDR                     -      Special Drawing Rights
WCISW                   -      Wider Caribbean Initiatve for Ship-Generated Waste
WCR                     -      Wider Caribbean Region (ncludes the
following countres/territories: Antigua & Barbuda;
Aruba; Bahamas; Barbados; Belize; British Virgin
Islands; Colombia; Costa Rica; Cuba; Doinica;
Dominican Republic; French Antilles & Guiana;
Grenada; Guatemla; Guyana; Haiti; Honduas; Jamaca;
Mexico; Netherlands Antilles; Nicaragua; Panama; St.
Kitts & Nevis; St. Lucia; St.Vincent & the Grenadines;
Suriname; Trinidad & Tobago; United States; United
States Virgin Islands, Venezuela)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES OF THE WIDER CARIBBEAN REGION
WIDER CARIBEAN INITIATIVE FOR SHIP-GENERATED WASTE
Grant and Project Summary
Recipient/Execig  Agency: IMO
Beneficiaries:     Devdloping Countries of the Wider Carbbean Region (DCWCR)
Mnistries of Finance (MOF)
Ministries of Environm.ent (MOE)
Port Authorities
Public HealthfWaste Management Authorities
Maritime Authorities
Law Entocement Authorities
Amount:            SDR 3.9 million (US$5.5 Million)
Terms:             Grant
Fnancing Pa:
Local           Foreign           Total
(uS$ million)
GEF    2.5              3.0             5.5
Economic Rate of Retunr Not applicable
MAPf                      IBERD 25029R
document ha a retrkted dktribution and may he ued by recpients only hI the pefIrmanee
offcil duB. Its conteats may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bnk auhworatIn.



WIDER CARIBBEAN INIATIVE FOR SHIP-GENERATED WASTE PROJECT
1.          Background. Almost all ship generated garbage is discharged at sea, polluting
international waters and coastal zones, and in some areas threatening the tourist trade. To
improve the quality of the world's oceans and coastlines and to protect international waters, the
intemational community adopted MARPOL 73178 Convention, which regulates operational
discharges from ships. Specifically regulated by the Convention are: oil (Annex 1); noxious
liquid substances (Annex II); harmful substances in packaged form (Annex III); sewage (Annex
IV); and garbage (Annex V). With the exception of Annex IV, all other annexes have entered into
force. For a country to become a Contracting Party to the Convention, it must ratify Annexes I
and II. A country may also elect to ratify any one or all of the optional annexes mI, IV and V.
Thus far, as of June 1993, 71 countries have ratified MARPOL 73fl8.
2.          In October 1990, the "Regional Workshop for the Wider Caribbean on Oil Spill
Preparedness and Response and "Special Area"' Status under Annex V of MARPOL 73/78" was
held in Caracas, Venezuela. After much discussion, the Caracas Workshop determiined that the
threat to the Wider Caribbean sea from garbage was significant enough to seek special protection
under the "Special Area" provisions of Annex V of MARPOL 73n78. An appropriate resolution
was drafted and submitted to IMO's Marine Environment Protection Committee in July 1991. As
a result, the WCR was designated as a "Special Area" under Annex V. Under the terms of Annex
V relating to "special areas", ships of all sizes are prohibited from the discharge of all waste
materials except food waste, which may be discharged 12 nautical miles (3 nautical miles in the
Wider Caribbean) from land. The "Special Area" designation for the Wider Caribbean entered
into force on April 4, 1993.
3.          While most developed countries have ratified MARPOL 73n78, the record for
ratification by the DCWCR is relatively incomnplete. Among the 22 DCWCR only 9 countries
have ratified the mandatory annexes and 6 have ratified Annex V. Moreover, among the 29
countries of the WCR only 14 have ratified the mandatory annexes, and 12 have ratified Annex
V. The status of ratification of Annexes Im and IV is less significant since Annex IV has not yet
entered into force and Annex El[ is relatively simple to implement (i.e. adherence to the labelling,
stowage and manifesting of dangerous goods according to an IMO code). The incomplete record
of ratification is directly attributed to the requirements under MARPOL 73n8 for countries to
prvide adequate port reception facilities for receiving ship-generated waste, and the need to
implement national legislation to enable enforcement of the Convention. For DCWCR, without
the assistance of the international community, the economic burden is significant and the
technical expertise to deal with associated legislative, institutional, waste management and
enforcement issues is often lacking.
4.           Project Objectives. The Project is conceived as the first phase of a longer term
process of cleaning up and protecting the Caribbean Sea. The objective of this first phase
program is to provide the basis for ratification and implementation of the MARPOL 73178
Convention by the DCWCR. Project activities would contribute to this objective by providing



-2-
governments with: (i) information on legal, technical, and institutional measures needed on a
regional and national basis to implement MARPOL 73/78; and (ii) a forum for considering
opions and for reaching a regional consensus on the actions to be taken. Assuming that the
members of the DCWCR decide to ratify and implement MARPOL 73178 building on this
project's outputs, a second phase program could be agreed with international donor community
support, consisting of investments in port reception facilities, waste management infrastructure,
and institutional training programs, that would contribute to the longer term goal of ending the
discharge of all ship-generated waste into intemational and territorial waters of the Caribbean
Sea and thereby protecting the environmental integrity of Caribbean coastal and marine systems.
5.          Ertl Dsarition. Over the three year period, the Project would provide
technical assistance to carry out studies and support coordination activities (Annex I) with the
objective of producing a regional strategy to implement MARPOL 73n8. The strategy would
include a regional legal framework, regional waste management programs, a regional public
awareness programs, training and identification of national projects for reception and disposal
facilities. The Project would finance consultant services and their logistical support to:
*           assess existing legislation and regulations of the DCWCR affecting
Annex I, II and V wastes;
e           identify legal remedies available under international agreements such as
MARPOL 73178 or appropriate altemative strategies for promoting compliance
with the "Special Area" designation in the WCR;
i           assess existing waste management systems in the DCWCR, including the
institutional setup;
e           formulate regional engineering criteria for waste reception facilities at the ports;
*           coordinate discussions with shipping and cruise lines on reducing waste at the
source and recycling Annex I, [I and V wastes;
*           develop integrated regional waste management alternatives, including
identification and evaluation of specific proposals;
*           develop strategies for the integration of collection, treatment and disposal of
Annexes 1, 1I and V ship-generated wastes with associated existing national
collection, treatment and disposal systems in DCWCR;
*           assist ports in the DCWCR in defining the appropriate tariffs for receiving Annex
L E and V wastes, including cost recovery for waste management systems;



- 3-
*           develop proposals to ensure that DCWCR achieves full cost recovery of the
collection, treatment and disposal costs associated with the reception of Annexes
I, II and V wastes;
*           assist DCWCR in implementing new waste management alternatives, including
training local staff;
*           develop strategies for public awareness programs in DCWCR in support of the
project on a national as well as regional basis;
*           brief potential donors, financing institutions, and NGOs on the status of
MARPOL 73/78 in the WCR; and
*           based on the foregoing, develop a strategy for dealing with Annex 1, 1 and V ship-
generated waste in the WCR, including investment proposals that could be
supported by WCR governments and the international donor community.
6.          Project activities would be carried out by consultants engaged by NMO and
supervised by both NO and the Bank. Consultants would work closely with national and
regional organizations, and a special effort would be made to involve all the targeted countries in
the process. It is envisaged that a tea a of three long term consultants consisting of a Project
Coordinator, Technical, and Legal experts (terms of reference are attached as Annex III) would
be engaged for about three years (estimated cost US$1.2 million). Each consultant will have a
specified work prograrn, developed on a rolling annual basis according to agreed time limits
specified in "Implementation Schedule" of key project activities, (Annex 1), which they
individually manage. Each consultant's work program includes a series of studies, monitoring
activities, public relations, training and regional meetings aimed at providing the basis for
ratification and implementation of MARPOL 73178 Convention by the DCWCR. The public
awareness strategy wiEl be developed and implemented by a public awareness fum procured
under LIB. To facilitate their work programs, the thrce long term consultants are expected to
identify and incorporate, as necessary, the services of local consultants and NGO's from the
DCWCR (estimated cost $2.8 million). These consultants would be selected by N4O, in
accordance with terms of reference agreed by the Bank, for tasks included in the respective
consultant's approved work program. Estimated completion date is August 31, 1997 and the
closing date is January 31, 1998.
7.           Project Execution. IMO, with headquarters in London, is the United Nations
organization responsible for promoting and monitoring MARPOL 73178 implementation and for
formulating technical regulations of shipping engaged in international trade. IM0's mission is to
encourage and facilitate the global adoption of the highest practicable standards in matters
concemLrg maritime safety, the efficiency of navigation and prevention and control of marine
pollution from ships. Thus the IMO, as an international organization to which most countries of
WCR are members, is the most suitable choice as an umbrella executing agency for the Project as



-4 -
indicated in the Resolution (Annex II). IMO would rely on the participation of national ministries
of environment (MOE) and finance (MOF), law enforcement authorities, maritime and port
authorities as well as oublic health authorities in the DCWCR to implement the project. To the
extent possible, regional and national NGO's would also be called upon to assist the long term
consultants in the implementation of the project (par. 7). To facilitate project execution, a
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), managed by the Project Coordinator and staffed with
Administrative Suppcrt, will be established for the duration of the project in Trinidad and
Tobago. Discussions are underway to house the PCU at the UNDP office in Port of Spain.
8.          Project Cost and Financing. The total cost of the project amounts to
approximately US$5.5 million which represent all expenditures required for project execution,
including costs associated with the PCU (office space, office supplies and equipment,
communications and secretarial support). The project will be financed by a grant from the Global
Environmental Facility Trust Fund (GET) equivalent to SDR 3.9 million. The Grant would
finance 100% of the cost of the services provided by consultants selected in accordance with
Bank guidelines, as well as all expenditures related to planned workshops and the development
of public awareness programs. IMO would be reimbursed for its incremental costs directly
related to its role as executing agency, estimated at US$357,000, equivalent to 6.5% of GET
grant (Schedule A). For the purpose of facilitating the financing of the Project, IMO would open
a Special Account in a conmmercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The initial deposit in the Special
Account would be LTS$250,000. The accounts of the Project, including the Special Account,
would be audited on a semi-annual basis by INMO internal auditors and on an annual basis by
independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the audited statements would be sent to
the Bank within one month of the end of each audited period. Administrative expenditure and
workshop costs will be disbursed against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for which detail
documentation evidencing expenditures would be reviewed by IMO and made available for
required audit as well as Bank supervision missions.
9.          Project Sustainability. By addressing the legal and institutional framework in
addition to the issues of enforcement and coordination of user fees or cost recovery across
countries, the project would help ensure adequate permanent financing for receiving and
disposing of ship-generated waste.
10.         Lessons from previous BanklIDA Experience. There is no previous Bank
experience with an international waters project benefiting a large number of countries. However,
experience in preparing the GEF/World Bank financed Waste Management project for the six
member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) identified the need
for strong project coordination, public awareness programs, and contracting local consultants to
ensure effective project planning and coordination. These lessons have been integrated in the
design of the WCISW project.
11.         Rationale for GEF Funding. The project, the preparation of which was financed
by a PPA, is designed to redress and prevent furffier pollution of an int-rnational waterway in an



-5 -
area of the world which depends heavily on its coastal zone, now and in the future, for income
and employment. Currently tourism and fishing revenues and public health are threatened by
pollution of coastal zones, from both land and marine sources. To be effective, port reception and
waste facilities need to be established throughout the WCR and a regulatory framework must be
in effect throughout the region, otherwise pollution will travel with the currents. Therefore a
regional approach is required under which simultaneous and coordinated efforts are initiated
throughout dte coastal countries and territories of the WCR. Protection of the coastal zone
depends on the minimization of marine waste to the extent possible, proper land-based waste
disposal and the effective management of land-based sources of pollution. The GEF funded
project would lay the basis for reducing marine pollution as well as land-based sources of coastal
zone pollution. This effort could provide a model for undertaking similar initiatives elsewhere in
the world where multi-national cooperation on marine pollution initiatives is required, but where
designation of "Special Area" status has yet to be specified. The objectives of the project would
not be achieved without GEF involvement.
12.         Monitoring and Evalupnion. The Project Coordinator will include in the annual
progress reports information on each pprticipating country's performance. against key indicators
deemed to be influenced by the Projec .. Indicators would include the number of developing
countries in the WCR adopting the following actions: (a) plans in support of waste minimization,
recovery, recycling and improvement of tile overall management of waste; (b) ratification of
MARPOL 73n8 Convention; (c) legislation for the implementation and enforcement of
MARPOL 73n8 Convention; and (d) dissemination of the Public Awareness Programs aimed at
increased sensitivity to issues related to the MARPOL 73r78 Convention (Schedule C). Once the
Project is declared effective, an annual set of activities and targets as per "Implementation
Program" for key activities (Annex I) will be agreed upon between the Project Coordinator and
the Consultants. This plan will include all activities to be undernaken for the next twelve months
by each of the consultants and will be monitored by the Project Coordinator through quarterly
progress reports to be submitted by each of the consultants. The plan wiU be revisited every nine
months and extended for another year.
13.         Agreements Reached.
(a)    With the countries of the WCR As set forth in the Resolution (Annex II) drawn
at the end of a WCISW Workshop held at IMO's headquarters from October 11 to
13, 1993, all countries in the WCR have agreed on the project objectives, role of
IMO as a recipient and executing agency of the GET grant, costs, financing and
organizational arrangements.
(b)    With MO.



-6 -
(i)    All consultancies are to be selected on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981;
(ii)   Public awareness programs to be procured under LIB (para. 9);
(iii)   The Project is to be implemented according to the Terms of Reference
shown at Annex III and the "Implementation Program" for key project
activities as shown at Annex I;
(iv)   Progress reports will be furnished to the Bank, the first one 4 months after
the effective date, and evcry 3 months thereafter; on an annual basis, these
reports are to include information on each participating country's
performance against key indicators deemed to be influenced by the project
(para. 13);
(v)    The accounts of the Project, including the Special Account, to be audited
on a semi annual basis by IMO auditors and on an annual basis by
independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 9);
(vi)   Copies of the audited statements to be sent to the Bank within one month
of the end of each audited period (para. 9); and
(vii)   Rolling action plans describing the Project activities to be carried out
during the following 12 months, will be fumished to the Bank 30 days
after the effective date and every 9 months thereafter.
14.          Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   Selection of the Project Coordinator; and
(b)   Subniission of audit report covering all expenditures financed by
the PPA in accordance with Bank guidelines.
15.          Environmental Aspects. Technical advice provided under the Project would
include the specification of Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines (World Bank
guidelines) to be used for pre-feasibility studies of possible port reception facilities and waste
disposal infiastructure in the DCWCR. The project could have significant environmental
benefits over the long term, if countries of the WCR decide to ratify MARPOL 73/78 and
implement the regional strategy developed under the WCISW. These benefits would include:
minimizing discharge of MARPOL 73178 waste into the international and territorial waters of the
Wider Caribbean sea, protecting the environmental integrity of coastal and marine systems, and



-7 -
reducing public health threats by strengthening national waste management systems throughout
the WCR.
16.         Project Benefits. The Project would provide the basis for member governments
of the WCR to agree on a regional strategy for dealing with ship wastes and to move towards
ratification of MARPOL 73fl8. Such actions would, ovcr the longer term, reap not only
significant environmental and health benefits, but would also generate important economic
benefits by reducing the threat to the tounst industry in the WCR caused by environmental
degradation.
17.         Project Risks. The project's main risks are associated with the need for many
countries to act in a coordinated manner and to enter into timely agreements among themselves
on regional waste management policy and international waste disposal programs. The Project
Coordinator wili be responsible for closely monitoring developments and for proposing to IMO
mitigating actions. The risks can be kept at an acceptable level through the public awareness
programs, use of NGO's whenever possible, contracting local consultants and through
interactions among government representatives at the workshops.
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 1994



SCHED EA
Page 1 of 2
IMO'
WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE FOR SHIP-GENERATED WASTE
Cost Estimates
(US$ Thousands)
Component                Local         Foreign          Total
1. Technical Assistance            2,450           1,503          3,953
(of which cost of PCU)            (130)            (45)          (175)
2. Administration & Supervision                      357            357
3. Workshops                          50             400            450
4. Public Awareness Program                          250            250
5. Contingency                                                      490
TOTAL                        2,500           3,000          5,500
PROCUREMENT METHOD
($SS Thousands)
Items                                Other
(1) Technical Assistance                   4,370
of which long trm consultants          (1,137)
PCU                               (189)
local vansutants                (3,044)
(2) Administation & Supenrision              357
(3) Work-shops                               497
(4) Public Awareness Program2                276
TOTAL                              5,500
M On behaf of the DCWCR.
Y wProcurement thrugh Limited Interational Bidding lUB).



Page 2 of2
TOTIAL D)ISBURSEN
S$ 1thousands)
Rtems                    Amount         % Financing
(1) TechnicalAssistance        3,953          100%
of which PCU                 (175)         100%
(2) Administation & Supervision    357        100%
(3) Workshops                    450          100%
(4) Public Awreness Program      250          100%
(5) Unalocated                   490
TOTAL                     5,500
MJ$ IMOuds
CY94    CY95    CY96          CY97
Annual                    290    2,100    2,300           810
Cummlan                    290    2,390    4,690        5,500
Ckosing Date: January 31, 1998



(a) ime TIen to Ppa    .......................... . 6 months
(b)Prpared by  ...................... . Consultnts, on behalf of the DCWCR
with Bank Assistan   inaced by a PPA
(c) First Bank hMion  ................................... Iatch 1993
(d) Ap sl Mssin D ur   ..................... ... Octber 1993
(e) Negotiatio n.......................... Iviarch 1994
(f) Phaned date of Effevenes ........................                              Jne 1994
(g) List of Relevant PCR.s amid PPAPs ......................... .                       None
*O'--haf of the DCWCR



MONIORING INDICATORS
Indicators            Adoption by Countries (numbers)
CY94         CY95         CY96        CY97
(a) Actions
in support
of proper                     4             4           6
Waste Mgt   _
(b)
Ratification
of
MARPOL           8*                         2           4
73/78
Convention_____
(c) Adoption
of
legisltion
in support
of                                                      2
MARPOL
73178
Convenftion
Dissem-
ination of
Public                        4            10           6
Awareness
PRgrams                                             ____
RaiidMRO  7J8CneX  pnior toJune1994



ANNXI
WEDER RCARIBBEAN INITMATIVE FOR SHIP GENERATED WASTE (WCISW)
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
for the Developing Countries of the Wider Caribbean Region (DCWCR)
REQONSIBILI1Y                          EXrECTED OUTPUT                          ES1IMATED COMPLETON
DATE
]MO                            - Conditions of Effectivenes.
a- Selection of project coordinstor                 t
b- Providing an acceptablc legal -opinion
C- Audiing of the PPA
- Hiring of the Technica ad Lcgal ConDalSas       No latr t   60 days from tih date Df
effectiveness
Date fiom inception of dhe comse's
contact
Tecnial Cassuh                          a- Guidc to Pors and Privt Mauins
requiring waste eception facilities.                  9 months
b- Report on he adequacq of existing
Wasts Maagemenl Systerm to handle
MARPOL 73ns waste.                                     9 months
c- Rcport on oarce teduction, rcycling
and recoery programs.                                 9 mintra
d- lst. Technical workshp.                            12  Dncha
e- Report on Regional Waste Management
Stategy including tcdhWa criteria for
waste reception faclhkec at ports, hubors
and marinaa.                                          21 months
f- 2nd. Technical worbhop.                            24 montha
- Report on syfstm deficiencies &
po ttenil rmedil psojects and progrums.               26 months
h- 3rd. Technical workshop.                           30 wonths
i- Pubic Awarenes Prmgam using
multimedia such as T.V. and Radio in
support of MARPOL 73n87 Convention.                   24 months
Leg  Caoulat                             r- Report to provide ihe rationale for a
lesg framwor k to raify and implement
MARPOL 73n/  Conventio                                 9 mot
b- 1st. Legal workshop.                               12 months
c- Report to include curren, and proposed
alencives to enforcing MARPOL 73/78
in the WCLR                                           21 months
d- 2nd. Legal workshop.                               24 months
Project Coodinatr                        rn Progress Repor                                   evy 3 months
b- WCISW Final Repor                                  33 months
c- Fuil workshop.                                     36 months
d- Chairnads eportL                                   33 mondos
e- liniation of project completion reporL             35 mont



ASX 
WIDER CARIBBEAN INiTIATIVE FOR SHIP-GENERATED WASTE
RESOLUTION
Delegates representing the Governments of State and Territories in the Wider
Caribbean Region, attending the Workshop on the Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-
Generated Waste held in London (United Kingdom) from 11 to 13 October 1993;
CONCERNED that discharges of oily wastes, garbage and other substances from
ships contribute significantly to the degradation of the marine and coastal environment of the
WiLder Caribbean Region.
RECOGNIZING that the Intenational Convention for the Prevention of Pollution
from Ships 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto (MARPOL 73178)
establishes the international framework for the regulation and control of such discharges,
RECOGNIZG that special arrangements are needed to provide adequate financial
and technical resources to assist developing countries to develop sustainable programs to
prevent and solve problems associated with all activities that threaten the marne
evironment,
BEING CONSCIOUS of the need to urgently undertake measures for the protection
and conservation of the marine and coastal environment of the Wider Caribbean RegLion,
AWARE that not all States in the Wider Caribbean Region have ratified or acceded to
MARPOL 73/78,
AWARE ALSO that States in the Wider Canbbean Region are in need of assistance
in order to implement and enfcrce MARPOL 73/78,
WECOME the Wlder Caribbean Initiative for Ship-Generated Waste developWed by
the World Bank and flmded by the Global Environment Facility, the Action Program
included
in it, and the assistance that will be provided under it,
RECOGNIZING that the World Bank is authorized to enter into arrangements and
agreements with interatonal oranizations in order to administer and manage financing for
the purpose of, and on terms consistent with, the Resolution establishing the Global
Environment Facility,
INVITE the Governmns concerned to irfy or accede to JMRPOL 73178 incluig
its opdonal Annex V,



AN,NE H
INV1T the internawional Maritine Organizaion to be the recipient of a Gran to be
proaided by the Global Environment Facility through the World Bank and act as executing
agency for the Wider Caribbean Initiaive for Ship-Generated Waste in cooperaion with the
World Bank and the Global Environment Facility,
FULLY SUPPORT the objectives of the Wider Caribbean Inidative for Ship-
Generated Waste,
UNDERTAKE to cooperate to the fidlest &rent possible and necessary, taking into
account the means available to them, in the Action Program of the Wider Caribbean
Iniiaeive for Ship-Generated Waste in order to ensure achievement of its objectives.



ANNEX m
Wider Caribbean Initiative for
Ship-Generated Waste
(WCISW)
Tems of Reference for.
-   Tech'zical Consultan
-   Legal Consultam
-   Project Coordinwor



The MARPOL Convention
1.    Growing international concem for protection of the environment generally, in-cluding
the marine environment in particular, led to the convening of the United Nations Conference
on the Human Environment in 1972 which drew attention, amongst other things, to the need
to protect the oceans from vessel-source pollution. A series of tanker casualties, the
increasing amount of wastes dumped in the ocean and chronic pollution of beaches and
coastal waters had drawn global attention to this problem.
2.    The internatonal community's response to the above concerns was the adoption,
under the auspices of the Intemational Maritime Organization (IMO) of the Intemational
Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (1973) and a Protocol to that
Convention (1978), together normally refeIred to as MARPOL 73/78 with the aim of
reducing and, if required, eliminating the long-standing practice of discharging wastes from
ships into the marine environment.
3.    MARPOL 73n8 requires both that ships retain their wastes on board, discharging
them only at their first port of call, and that ports provide adequate reception facilities to
receive these wastes.
4.    Different types of substances or cargo carried by ships are addressed in the five
Annexes of MARPOL 73/78 as follows:
Annex I, oil;
Annex II, noxious liquid substances in bulk
Annex m, harmful substances in packaged forms;
Annex IV, sewage; and
Annex V, garbage.
Ratification of MARPOL 73/78 by a State does not necessarily have to include all Annexes.
Annexes Im, IV and V are referred to as optional Annexes that need not be accepted by a
State when it ratfies or accedes to MARPOL 73/78 (including its Annexes I and Il).
However, the optional Annexes cannot be ratified separately; these can only be ratfied in
combination with or after ification of MARPOL 73/78 (including its Annexes I and 11).
5.    MARPOL 73(78 and its Annexes provide spedfic discharge standards for different
substances. For some substances (e g. plastics in Annex V) MARPOL 73178 introduces a
complete ban on their discharge. It also provides for the option of designating specific sea
areas as 'special areas' under Annex I, II or V (or under a combination of these Annexes).
Stricter discharge regulations apply to these special areas.



6.    Following an IMOIUNEP sponsored workshop in Carcas, October 1990, and also
the 30th session of the Marine Environment Protection Committee dEPC) of the IMO,
November 1990, several Governmnents in the Wider Caribbean Region (WCR) sought from
the MEPC a 'Special Area' designation for the WCR's sea area under Annex V of MARPOL
73/78. Under this arrangement, ships are prohibited from discharging garbage at sea within
the Gulf of Mexico and WCR. A proposal was presented to MEPC's 31st session where it
was formally adopted on 4 July 1991 (MEPC Res. 48(31)). The amendment entered into
force on 4 April 1993.
7.    The States and Territories of the WCR were invited to examine in detail the
implications of the 'Special Area' designation and to endeavor to provide adequate and
acceptable reception facilities for Annex V wastes throughout the region. The 'Special Area'
desgnation for the Wider Canbbean Region will only become effective one year after the
required reception facilities are established and made operational in the ports of the region.
8.    The provision of reception facilities is a major instrument in MARPOL 73178's efforts
to reduce or end the discharge of ship-generated wastes into the marine environment.
A=nnes 11 II and V contain regulations with regard to the reception facilities that must be
provided in ports, respectively for oily wastes, noxious liquid substances, and garbage.
MARPOL 73/78's effectiveness in combating marine pollution from ships is as much
determined by the effectiveness of its regulations regarding the provision of reception
facilities as it is by the effectiveness of implementation and enforcement of its requirements
concerning port ispection and reporting.
9.    There are, however, other important elements that determine the effectiveness of
MARPOL 73/78 worldwide and also in the WCR and more spefically, in fte States and
Territories of the WCR. These include that:
-     the relevant national primary and secondary maritime legislation has to be in
place and up to date and many of the important IMO Conventions other than
MARPOL 73178 are also ratified and implemented by adoption of national
legislation;
-     MARPOL 73178, including its optional Annexes Cm particular Annex V) be
ratified;
-     MARPOL 73/78's provisions are implemented by adoption of appropriate
national legislation and that there exists an effective institutional framework
both for the legislative processes for the dafting and adoption of the necessary
laws and an effective maritime administration for the overview,
implementation and enforcement thereof;
-     MARPOL 73fl8's provisions are actively enforced by the States and
Teritories in the WC1 to ensure fu compliance with is regulations;



- 3 -
other relevant international instruments (e.g. the Cartagena Convention, the
London Convention, the Vina del Mar Agreement, and the Basel Convention)
should also be ratified and implemented; and
reception facilities for ship-generated wastes be provided, the institutional
arrangements for the effective operation of these bailities be in place, and
strategies and infrastructure for the effective management (e.g. treatnent,
disposal) of these wastes also be developed.
10.  In the WCR (and in other regions of the world for that matter), MARPOL 73/78 is
not yet as effective as it could and should be. Whilst it is not possible preciselIy to analyze
the causes within the framework of this document, it is possible to give some indications of
the cunrrnt situation.
11.   National primary and secondary maritime legislation in many developing countries of
the WCR needs to be further developed or updated. In some cases, there is not evn
legislation covering the main institutions of law, which is the necessary foundation of a
maritime legal regime. In others general enabling and primary maritime legislation may be in
place, but the necessary regulations and other measures necessary to give the enabling
legislation practical effect have either not been developed or may not be up to date or
effective. Some progress has been made in some countries in this area in respwect of
enactment of shipping legislation or updating outdated legislation, or both, as a result of,
among other developments, bi-lateral projects, the appointment of a Regional Maritime
Safety Adviser for the Caribbean by the IMO, and the appointment of a Regional Consultant
on arine Pollution, Port Safety and Security for the Wider Caribbean. Another important
initative is the LEGISMAR project in 5 Cental American States established under UN
auspices with the IMO as executing agency to promote adoption and implementation of
comprehensive matime legislation. In spite of the efforts through these and other projects,
however, much remains to be done.
12.  Many States and Territories in the Wider Caribbean have not ratified a substantial
number of important safety related IMO Conventions. The Annex to this documert provides
an overview of the present status of ratification of such Conventions.
13.  MARPOL 73178 has not been ratified by a substantial number of States and
Territories in the WCR. The Annex to this document also provides an overview of the
present status of ratification of MARPOL 73/78.
14.  The lack of national maritime legislation is especially great in relation to
implementation of MARPOL 73n8 despite the excellent initiatives that have already been
launched by the various 1MO resident experts and numerous ad hoc consultants employed by
the IMO and concemed States and international organizations in this area. In addition,
coordination of legislation is lacldng in the area as a whole and in most of its sub-regions.
There is virtuay a tabula rasa for development and enactment of the necessary primary and



- 4 -
secondary legislation, to encourage and enable ratification of MARPOL 73/78, etc.. This
situation presents a unique opportunity to develop legislation in the region on a harmonized
and a coordinated basis, which is vital to the successful operation of MARPOL 73/78 and
especially its Annexes I, II and V.
15.  Information with regard to the availability of the various types of reception facilities
for the reception of wastes in the ports and harbors of the WCR is incomplete. A number of
publications (Lloyd's Ports of the World 1993, a document by the International Chamber of
Shipping submitted to the MEPC in 1990, and the MEPC Circular 234 containing
information provided by Contracting Parties about reception facilities for oily wastes) provide
information about the situation with regard to the availability of such facilities in ports in the
WCR, but this infonnation is in some cases seveial years old, and in all cases incomplete. A
special survey reviewing port reception and disposal facilities for garbage in the Wider
Caribbean was carried out in 1991 by Environmental Resources Ltd. for the IMO and the
World Bank. It indicates that it is more than likely that facilities for the reception of shp
generated wastes are not available in many of the ports and harbors of the WCR.
16.  It is generally recognized that the most important probler of ship-generated wastes
may not be the reception of such wastes in ports, but the management and disposal or
treatment of these wastes once they have been brought into ports. This issue was also
addressed in the Environmental Resources Ltd. study of 1991.
Objectives
17.         Project activities are conceived as the first phase of a longer term process of
cleaning up and protecting the Wider Caribbean Seas. The objective of this first phase
program is to provide the basis for ralification and implementation of the MARPOL 73/78
convention by the developing countries of the WCR. Project activities would contribute to
this objective by providing govenments with Ci) information on legal, technical, and
institutional measures needed on a regional and national basis to implement MARPOL 73/78;
and (ii) a forum for considering options and for reaching a regional consensus on the actions
to be taken. Assuming that the States and Territories of the WCR decide to ratify and
implement MARPOL 73/78 building on this project's outputs, a second phase program could
be agreed with intemational donor community support, consisting of investments in port
reception facilities, waste management infrastructure, and institutional training programs, that
would contribute to the longer term goal of ending the discharge of all ship-generated waste
into international waters, exclusive economic zones and tenitorial seas of the Wider
Caribbean, and thereby protecting the environmental integrity of Caribbean coastal and
manne systems.



Wider Caribbean Initiative for
Ship-Generated Waste
Tems of Reference Technical Consulzant



-6 -
Action Program
The Technical Consultant's Task-
1.    The services to be provided under the Terms of Reference of the Wider Caribbean
Initiative for Ship-Generated Wastes (WCISW) involve the completion of the following tsks
to be carried out in conjunction with other internatonal, regional and national organizations
under the management of the Technical Consultant, in cooperation with the Project
Coordinator based at the IMIO, the Legal Consultant and the World Bank. The Technical
Consultant's responsibilities are divided into thee stages, of which stages 2 and 3 can to
some extent be carried out concurrently.
2.    StageS 1, Prjet PE!M ion
(a)   To develop cooperation with INO's regional advisers including national,
regional and international institutions involved in the issues addressed by the
WCISW and to coordinate activities with the relevant ongoing activities of
IMO's regional advisers as well as national and regional institutions in order to
achieve optimal effectiveness of the various activities and initiatives, and to
avoid duplication and/or incompatibility of efforts.
(b)   To carry out introductory and fact-findinig visits relating to ongoing projects
and other work of persons and other organizations involved thei, relevant to
technical infrastructure for the implementation of MARPOL 73/78 including
the land-based management of solid and liquid wastes as it affects ports. To
identify local technical experts in this field.
(c)   In discussion with concerned government and regional agencies, to determine
which commercial ports, harbors and anchorages in the developing counties of
the WCR should ensure that port reception facilities are provided for Annex I,
I1 and V wastes respectively.
(d) U,) develop a complete and up-to-date inventory (and quality assessment) of
port reception facilities for all types of wastes (including technical and
operational details) available in commercial ports, harbors and anchorages in
the WCR.
(e)   To develop a complete and up-to-date inventory (and quality assessment) of
port reception facilities for waste (including technical and operational details)
available in nmainas bi the WCR.
(f)   To review and evaluate existing waste management (collection, treatment and
disposal) systems in each of the developing counties of the WCR, including
the insttutional set-up for these systems.



3.    Stage 2. Activities Aimed at the Wider Caribbean Region
(g)   To identify specific technical requirements for the development of an effective
system of enforcement of MARPOL 73/78 regulation in the WCR to ensure
full compliance by all parties involved.
(h)   To promote the reduction of wastes at source in coordination with shipping
and cruise lines, non-governmental organizations and any other entities that
might be able to provide a useful contribution, and to develop outline
proposals for the operationalization of region-wide recycling and waste
recovery initiatives.
(i)   To develop awareness programs in close cooperation with relevant
intenational and non-governmental organizations at the regional and sub-
regional level to pmmote the objectives of the WCISW and the success of the
activities carried out within the framework of the WCISW, in particular to
ensure that the public in all the countries concerned understand the need and
reasons for the measures to be takn, the need to ensure and, as appropriate,
to partcipate in compliance therewith, and are fully aware of the benefits tha
they will derive therefrom.
4.    Stage 3. Activities Aimed at Individual States and Territories
d1)   To develop integrated national and/or regional waste management strategies.
Typical strategy blueprints would be developed for groups of countries and/or
territories with smilar characteristics and conditions (e.g. small island states,
large mainland ports etc.)
(k)   To formulate detailed acceptable technical criteria that can be applied in the
WCR and further refined for specific local conditions for waste reception
facilities at ports for Annexes I, II and V wastes from ships, including
collection, tranWsport, treatment and disposal procedures, and taking into
account the need for cost miimization, technicl appropriateness,
environmental considerations, etc.
(I)   To develop methods, and provide guidelines, for the assessment and evaluation
of the economic and environmental impact of reception facilities and associated
waste management systems, and to develop tariffs for the use of these facilities
including proposals for viable cost recovery -ystems.
(m)  To develop and define the mechanisms for providing assistance and technical
support to national and/or local Governments or port authorities in the
operaion of reception facilities and associated waste management systems as
required by MARPOL 73178 and in developing and implementing new waste
management strategies. This effort should be closely coordinated with the
World Bank and other potential donors.



- 8 -
(n)   With the assistance of governments, regional agencies, NGOs and consultants
as necessary, identify the key deficiencies in physical infrastructure and
institutional arrangements which constitute constraints in the implementation of
MARPOL 73/78 convention in each of the developing countries of the WCR.
Attention must also be given to the organizational aspects of reception and
management of wastes, including the financial and institutional aspects and the
requirements for training of local staf. Identify actions and interventions
required to address it-.ese deficiencies.
Scope of Work
5.    The activities to be carried out by the consultants, coordinated closely with NMO and
the World Bank, involved in the WCISW, will include the preparation of data inventories
and reports, drafting of agreements and legislation, the convening of legal and technical
workshops, and visits and high level missions to all the developing counties of the WCR
when possible.
Six workshops are envisaged in the WCISW:
two legal workshops, the first focusing on national legislation necessary for the
implementation of MARPOL 73178 and the second focusing on enforcement of
MARPOL 73/78;
tee technical workshops, the first focusing on the reduction at source of
wastes and the exsting provision for port reception of wastes in the region, the
second focusing on the strategy blueprints for reception and associated waste
management systems and technical criteria for reception facilities, and the third
on the country-specific key deficiencies identfied, and po0sible mechanisms
for auJressing these deficiencies; and
a final workshop to discuss the outcome of the WCISW, to discuss the actions
required to bring about full effectiveness of the special area designation of fte
Caribbean under MARPOL, and to present these findings to the intrnational
funding agencies.
6.   In recent years a considerable amount of % ork has already been undertaken on the
review and assessment of maritime legislatior. in the WCR (though mostly in relation to ship
safety) and of solid waste management systems by a vanety of agencies including the IMO
and regional bodies and Governments. It is important that any consultants involved in Xt
WCISW avoid duplication of effort by reviewing in detail all studies carried out to date, by
making full use of the results of the work that has already been carried out, and by
coordinating their activties wnth others already active in similar fields of activity in the
WCR, including the IMO Regional Maritime Safety Adviser for the Caribbean and the
Regional Consultant on Marine Pollution (as indicated in the following paragraph).



- 9 -
7.    The following list of persons, initiatives and activities is not exdustive and provides
an indication of other initiatives and activities with which some form of coordination or
cooperation might be useful for the WCISW:
-     Caribbean Action Plan and the Cartagena Covention;
-     the NMO/Norway Coopeaion Program's Regional Maritime Safty Adviser
for the Caribbean;
-     the Regional Consultant on Marine Pollution, Port Safety and Security (Wider
Caribbean) financed by the US Coast Guard;
-     IMO regional Coordinator on Marine Envoment Protecion for Latin
America;
-     ROCRAM, ROCRAMICA;
-     LEGISMAR project executed by the IMO and UNCrAD;
-     The OECS (Organization of Eastern Caribbean States) Waste Management
Project; and
-     the efforts by IMO's Maine Enirnment Protection Committee (M    to
develop a Manual on Reception Facilities.
Furthermore, several regional and sub-regional o tions in the WCR may be actve in
areas that are relevant to the objectives of the Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-Generated
Wastes.
S.   The scope of work of the various activies of the Technical Consultant outlined in the
previous chapter will be as follows:
9.    Technical Consultant.
(a)   Cpaon and Coordination. A small technical steering committee
composed by the Project Coordinator and the Technical Consultant, composed
of high level esenatives from among the developing countries of the WCR
will be established to ensure progress of the WCISW, its Action Program and
coordination with other initiatives. The representatives should total only five or
six persons drawn from Government departments involved in providing for the
technical infuctre for the reception and management of wastes from ships
(e.g. the Departments of Transport, Finance, Economic Affairs, Public HRalth,
Environment, as appropriate, etc).



- 10 -
(b)   Fact-inding regarding technical infrastructure. The Technical Consultant will
assist in the establishment of teams of technical cperts in each developing
country of the WCR (or combinations of countries) as task forces for
managing the preparation of the development of reception facilities and related
waste management systems. As in the case of the Steering Committee, these
national task forces will include representatives both skilled and involved in
developing such fcilities drawn from Govemment deparments involved in this
process such as, possibly, Maritime Transport Departments, Port Authorities,
Environment and Public Health Authorities as required. It should also be
considered whether companies involved in the construction and operation of
such facilities and systems can be involved in these task forces.
(c)   Identfication of ports that reguiTe recetion facilities. The Technical
Consultant will determine which port reception facilities are required i the
ports and harbors in the developing countries of the WCR in order to comply
with the relevant Regulations of MARPOL 73178. Criteria to be used are
-  in MARPOL 73/78:
In Annex I, Regulation 12(2) provides guidance as to which ports need Annex
I reception facilities:
(Ji) all ports and terminals in which crude oil is loaded into oil tankers
where such tankers have immediately prior to arrival completed a
ballast voyage of not more than 72 hours or not more than 1,200
nautical miles;
Iii) all po and teminals in which oil other than crude oil in bulk is
loaded at an avenge quantity of more than 1,000 metric tons per day;
(iii) all ports having slip repair yards or tank cleaning facilities;
(iv)  all port and terminals which handle hips provided with the sludge
tank(s) reqired by Regulation 17 of this Annex;
(v) all port in respect of oily bilge waters and other residues, which
cannot be discharged in accordance with Regulation 9 of this Annex;
and
(vi) all loading ports for bulk cargoes in respect of oil residues from
combination carriers which cannot be discharged in accordance with
regulation 9 of this Annex.
In Annex I, Regulation 7(1) provides guidance as to which ports need
Annex U reception facilities:



- 11-
(i) cargo loading and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities for
reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures
containing noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from
ships carrying them as a consequence of the application of this Annex;
and
(ii) ship repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tankers shall have
facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing
noxious liquid substances.
In Annex V, Regulation 7(1) provides guidance as to which ports need
Annex V reception facilities. These are the most straightforward in this
espect: all ports and terminals (including marinas) should have reception
facilities for garbage.
(d)   Inventory of recepion facilities in commercial ports, harbors and anchorages.
The Technical Consultant will be responsible for compiling a detailed
inventory of exising reception fcilities in ports and harbors in the Region.
This inventory will indicate which facilities are available in which ports and
will also indicate which facilities still have to be developed. AU commercial
ports, harbors and anchorages in the developing countres of the WCR will be
included in the inventory.
(e)   Inentory of reception facilities in marinas. The Technical Consultant will be
responsible for compiling a detailed inventory of eisting reception zfcilities in
marinas in the developing countries of the WCR. The inventory should focus
its attention on reception facilities for oily wastes and garbage.
(0]  NWaste management systems assessment. The Technical Consultant will be
responsible for compiling a detailed inventory of existing waste management
facilities in the developing countries of the WCR as these relate to ports,
harbors and marinas. Details of shore-based waste collection, treatment and
disposal systems as they currently relate to or are likely to relate to port
reception of MARPOL Annex I,11 and V wastes will be collected and
analyzed. Assessment will be made as to the adequacy of current
arrangements. The Technical Consultant will collect any information
available on the issue, including the information available as a result of the
OBCS Waste Management Project.
(g)   Technical requirements for enforcement. The results of the review of specific
technical requirements for the development of an effective system of
enforcement of MARPOL 73/78 regulations will be incorpoated in the



- 12 -
enforcement strategy developed by the Legal Consultant for discussion at the
second legal workshop.
(h)   Waste reduction at source. The options for waste reduction at source, waste
recovery and recycling will be investigated by the Technical Consultant and
proposals made to encourage such initiatives. In collaboration with the Project
Coordinator, the Technical Consultant will organize the first technical
workshop for and in cooperation with the industry involved (e.g. packaging
industry, shipping and cruise lines, non-governmental organizations) to discuss
options for the reduction of wastes at source (in particular with regard to
limiting the amounts of packaging used for supplies). This first workshop will
also discuss the coverage and adequacy of existing reception facilities in the
Region.
(i)   Awareness Programs. Strategies will be developed by the Technical
Consultant in close coordination with the Project Coordinator, the Legal
Consultant and the IMO for develeping public awareness programs to
appreciate the need for and benefits to be derived from the adoption of
lslation required to implement MARPOL 73/78, from compliance therewith
and participation therein, and from the provision of reception facilities.
(J)   Development of National or Regional Waste Management Strategies. The
Technical Consultant will be responsible for the development of waste
management strategies at a national and regional level where appropriate. It is
anticipated that generic strategies can be developed which will provide a
blueprint for the development of individual country strategies (e.g one for
smal island states, one for large mainland ports etc.). The opportunities for
regional co-opedtion wil have to be determined based on the experience of,
and in close c-operation with the OECS Waste Management Project. Options
for regional cooperation and the establishment of regional waste management
(e.g. by strategic treatment centers) need to be considered, taking into account
legal issues related to the export of wastes if wastes are to be treated at centers
servicing more dtan one port and more than one country.
(k)   Technical Criteria for Reception Facilities. All three relevant Annexes of
MARPOL 73/78 (1, II & V) provide guidance as to certain technical
requirements and necessary capacity for the different types of reception
ac:ilities. The Technical Consultant will use these guidelines, the assessment
of exsting reception facilities and discussions with national governments in the
region to develop technical criteria and guidelines for port reception ficilities
in the region, and for the associated waste management systems. At the
second technical workshop the consultant would present for discussion the
typical waste management strategies and the proposed technical criteria for
reception facilities and associated waste management systems. Part of the
workshop would focus on the work currently undertakn by the IMO to



- 13 -
develop a manual on reception facilities and would involve companies active in
the field of constructing and operating such facilities. The objective would be
to discuss and further develop technical criteria for use in the developing
countries of the WCR. It could be useful to organize different sessions within
the workshop for the three different Annexes of MARPOL 73/78; priority
could then be given to reception facilities and waste management strategies for
Annex V wastes.
(O)   Economic and environmental impact. costs and cost-recovery of receQion
faciliftis. The Technical Consultant, in collaboration with the Project
Coordinator, the Legal Consultant, an economist and NGO's would establish
guidelines for the evaluation of proposed port reception facilities and
associated systems for the collection, treatment and disposal of wastes in terms
of economic (and financial) feasibility, and environmental impact. The
guidelines would focus on methods for evaluating economic benefits, potential
cost recovery mechanisms,and the methodology for undertaking Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIAs) for the ficilities and systems. The EIA guidelines
should focus in particular on the treatment and final disposal methods adopted
for MARPOL Annex I, II and V wastes.
(im)  Assistance in the Operation of Reception Facilities and Waste Management
Systems.    The Technical Consultant, in discussion with regional and
international organizations, NGOs and national governments, will develop
mechanisms for assisting governments with the management, operation and
maintenance of their port reception facilities and associated waste management
systems. Inter alia, operational guidelines will be developed, and training
and problem solving seminars will be organized for operators of reception
facilities. These training sessions will also provide an opportunity to encourage
and promote regional harmonization in the operation of such facilities and
systems.
(n)   Identification of Key System Deficiencies and Potential Prjects to Address
These Deficiencies. The Technical Consultant will, with the assistance of
governments, regional agencies, NGOs and consultants as necssary, identify
the key deficiencies in physical infrastructure and institutional arrangemens
which constitute constraints to the provision of adequate port reception
facilities and associated waste management systems in each of the Wider
Caribbean counties. Attention will particularly be given to the o ional
aspects of reception and management of wastes, including the financial,
environmental and institutional elements of the systems and the requirements
for training of local staff. The Technical Consultant, in discussion with all
concerned parties, will then go on to identify actions and interventions
required to address these deficiencies. The third technical seminar to be
arranged by the Technical Consultant, in collaboration with IMO, the Project
Coordinator and the, will discuss national and regional deficiencies and the



* -v
- 14 -
potential projects and programs required to address these deficiencies. It is
anticipated that the potential projects and programs emerging from these
discussions would constitute Phase H of the project and will be carried forward
for presentation at the final WCISW Project Workshop.
Outputs
10.   The Technical Consultant will provide brief (2 to 3 pages) quarterly reports on the
progress of all activities relating to his/her scope of work based on a pre-agreed schedule of
activities. These will be submitted to the Project Coordinator for consolidation with other
progress reports and submitted to the IMO/.
Other specific outputs will be as follows:
11. Slage A
L     Guide to port reception facilities in commercial ports
A guide to port reception fiLcilities in commercial ports and harbors will be
published 9 months after commencement of the contract.
HI.   Guide to port rEceotion facilities in marinas
A guide to port reception facilities in marinas will be published 9 months after
commencement of the contracL
mI.   Report on waste management systejns
A report outlining, in brief, the adequacy of waste management systems in the
Wider Canbbean serving the identified ports, harbors and marinas will be
published 9 months from the date of the commencement of the contract.
IV.   Source reduction, recycling and recovery of vastes
A action plan in support of waste minimization, recovery and recycling
initiatives, and details of any proposed regional initiatives in this regard will
be agreed and reported upon 9 months after the date of the commencement of
the contract.



- 15 -
12.   S    2 and 3
V.   Technical Report on Technology available for Enforcement Efforts
A report will be incorporated in the strategy for enforcement developed by the
legal Consultant identifying practical and cost-effective technical means
available to support efforts aimed at increasing compliance with MARPOL
73178.
VI.   Awareness Programs
Awareness Programs will be detailed in consultation with the Project
Coordinator, Legal Consultant and the and presented 24 months after
commencement of the contract.
VII. First Technical Workshop (to be undertaken within 12 months after the
commencement of the contract)
The first Technical Workshop will discuss the reduction at source, recovery
and recycling of waste and review the adequacy of existing facilities for the
reception of MARPOL Annex I, II and V wastes. The Technical Consultant
wi  prepare a report on the proceedings of this workshop focusing on agreed
actions.
VIII. Renional Waste Management Strategy Report
A report will be published before the second Technical Workshop containing
an assessment of the current waste management strategies and outlining
proposals for new national and regional waste management strategies relating
to MARPOL Annex I, II and V wastes.
IX.  Technical Report on Port Reception Facilities
A report will be published before the second Technical Workshop with
technical cnteria for port reception facilites for ports and harbors in the
developing countries of the WCR. This report will also include
recommendations with regard to cost recovery, methods for an assessment and
evaluation of the economic and environmental impact of such facilities, waste
management (disposal, treatment, etc.) and other relevant issues.



- 16 -
X.   Second Technical Workshop (to be undertaken after 12 monthS after the first
workshoD}
The Second Technical Workshop will discuss technical and economic issues
related to the operation of port reception facilities and waste management
systems, and associated requirements for economic and environmental
assessment and evaluation. The Technical Consultant will prepare a report on
the proceedings of this workshop focusing on agreed actions.
XM.   Sy=m deficiencies and potential remedial projects and pograms
Based on the earlier review of existing reception facilities and assodated waste
management systems (outputs m and IV), and on the outcome of the second
technical workshop, the Technical Consultant will co-ordinate efforts in the
developing countries of the WCR to develop projects and programs to address
these deficiencies.
XII.  Third Technical Workshop (to be undertken within 6 -months after the second
,ahm!
The Third Technical Norkshop will discuss the national and regional programs
and projects developed to enable the developing countries of the WCR to
comply with the requirents of MARPOL 73178 under Annexes I, II and V.
The Technical Consultant will prepare a report on the proceedings of the
workshop identfying and defining potential 'hardware' and "software project
packages at the national and regional level. This report will be submitted to
the Project Coordinator who will consolidate it with a similar final report from
the Legal Consultant for distnbution pnor to the final workshop.
13.   All the work to be covered under the WCISW initiative is expted to conclude within
three years from the date of finalizon of the contractual agreements with the
consultants. Following the third techrical workshop and the second legal workshop,
the Project Coordinator, assisted by the two consultants, is expected to produce the
final WCISW document that defines all the activities and investments proposed for
Phase I of the initiative to be funded by donors, international and regional institutions
and national govemments. This document will be tabled at the final workshop,



- 17 -
Wider Caribbean Initiative for
Ship-Generated Waste
Terms of Reference Legal Consultant



- 18 -
Action Program
The Legal Consultant's Task
1.   It is envisaged that the services of both legal and technical consultants will be required to
execute the Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-Generated Wastes (WCISW), supported by a
Project Coordinator based at the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and that the legal and
technical services will be carried out, to the extent possible, in parallel. The legal consultant will
have to take cognizance of the fact that there is a variety of legal systems in the area, including
civil and common law systems, and that legislation will need, as appropriate, to be drafted in the
relevant languages (English, French, Dutch, Spanish).
2.    The services to be provided under the Terms of Reference of the Wider Caribbean Initiative
for Ship-Generated Wastes (WCISW) involve the completion of the following tasks to be carried
out by the Legal Consultant in cooperation with the Project Coordinator based at the IMO and the
Technical Consultant and the .
3.    Stage 1. Project Preparation
(a)   To identify the legal requirements available under MARPOL 73/78 and its Protocols
and any national laws for achieving its objectives and promoting compliance
available under other instruments, such as the London, Cartagena and Basel
Conventions and the Vina del Mar Agreement on Port State Control, paying
particular attention to their usefulness in achievnng the Special Areas status accorded
to the WCR under Annex V of MARPOL 73n78.
(b)   To develop cooperation with IO's regional advisers including national, regional
and international institutions involved in the issues addressed by the WCISW and to
coordinate activities with the relevant ongoing activities of IMO's regional advisers
as well as national and regional institutions in order to achieve optimal effectiveness
of the various activities and initiatives and to avoid duplication or incompatibility of
efforts or both.
(c)   To carry out studie.s and introductory fact-finding visits in order:
(i)  to identify and assess ongoing projects and the work of individuals and
organizations involved therein insofar as this is relevant to drafting and
implementation and enforcement of related legislation;
(ii) to identify local lawyers and other experts who could be built into teams (task
forces) for drafting legislation taking into account the need to include, as
appropriate, technical and economic experts drawn from concerned
Government departments, shipping and port authorities, public health and
marine environment protection agencies;



- 19 -
(iii) to evaluate the documentation provided by the developing countries of the
WCR to the Workshop held at the IMO from 11-13 October 1993 on existing
legislation and related matters, to identify gaps therein and to investigate the
reasons therefore during the fact-finding visits.
(d)   To carry out introductory and fact-finding visits relating to ongoing projects and
other work of persons and other organizations involved therein relevant to existing
legislation.
(e)   To make an inventory of and to review and evaluate existing legislation and policy
for the implementation of MARPOL 73/78 in the developing countries of the Wider
Caribbean Region, including related collection, treatment and disposal of ship-
generated waste and legislation relevant to promoting the "Special Area" status of the
WCR.
(f)   To analyze the reasons why several developing countries of the WCR have not
ratified MARPOL 73/78 and its optional Annexes.
(g)   To develop model legislation for the implementation and enforcement of MARPOL
73/78 that can be used by the developing countries of the WCR for the development
of national legislation, taking into account, to the extent appropriate, the "Guidelines
for the Drafting of Maritime Legislation" produced the United Nation's Economic
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the diversity of
languages, legal systems and special requirements for some of the developing
countries of the WCR such as the preservation of the "fruit fly free" status of
Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines vis-a-vis the United States of America.
(h)   To develop a strategy to increase the level of ratification of MARPOL 73178 and its
optional Annexes on the bas:s of the analysis indicated under f, in consultation with
other concerned resident advisers in the region and varous concerned regional and
sub-regional organizations such as the CARICOM, %At for development of the
necessary legislation to remedy the deficiencies of the State, as required.
4.    Stage 2, Activities Aimed at the Wider Caribbean Region
(a)   To make an inventory of and to assess current efforts for the enforcement of the
discharge provisions of MARPOL 73/78 (through proit State control and monitoring,
surveillance and enforcement at sea in conformity with the requirements of
international law) by countries in the WCR, whether by means of administrative
measures or use of naval or air forces, non-military vessels or aircraft on official
Government duties.
(b)   To prepare a strategy to improve and coordinate efforts for the enforcement of the
discharge provisions of MARPOL 73/78 (through port State control and at sea) and



- 20 -
other means of compliance tfierewith by the developing countries of the WCR
individually or through cooperative efforts by aU or several States based on the
analysis developed under (a), taling account of developments conceming the
conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control for the WCR
following tfie models of the Paris and Vina del Mar agreements.
(c)   To assist the Technical Consultant in the development of public awareness in the
need for and benefits to be derived from full compliance with MARPOL 73/78
Convention
5.    Stage 3. Activities Aimed at Individual States and Territories
(a)   To actively assist those States in the WCR which the evaluations have shown to have
no (adequate) national legislation for the implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and its
optional Annexes in the development or improvement of such legislation and the
building or improving of the required institutional arrangements for drafting of such
legislation and providing an effective maritime administrative administration for its
implementation, including by relevant Government departments, agencies and port
authorities.
(Ca)   To plan and assist in cooperation with the NO, and other concered inteational
and regional institutions, trining sessions for legal draftsmen and others involved in
the drafting of legislation and technical regulations for the implementation of
MARPOL 73/78.
(c)   Similarly, to plan and assist training sessions for those involved in the enforcement
of mARPOL 73/78.
Scope of Work
6.    The activities to be carried out by the consultants, coordinated closely with IMO and thee,
involved in the WCISW will include the preparation of data inventories and reports, drafting of
agreements and legislation, the convening of legal and technical workshops, visits and high level
missions to all develcping countries of the WCR as and when possible.
Six workshops are envisaged in the WClSW:
-     two legal workshops, the first focusing on national legislation necessary for the
implementation of MARPOL 73178 and the secofid focusing on enforcement of
MARPOL 73/78;
-     three technical workshops, the first focusing on the source reduction of wastes and
the existing provision for port reception of wastes in the region, the second focusing
on the strategy blueprints for reception and associated waste management systems



- 21 -
and technical criteria for reception facilities, and the third on the country-specific
key deficiencies identified, and possible mechanisms for addressing these
deficiencies; and
a final workshop to discuss the outcome of the WCISW, to discuss the actions
required to bring about full effectiveness of the special area designation of the
Caribbean under MARPOL, and to present these findings to the international funding
agencies.
7.   In recent years a considerable amount of work has already been undertaken on the review
and assessment of maritime legislation in the WCR (though mostly in relation to ship safety) and of
solid waste management systems by a variety of agencies including the IMO and regional bodies
and Governments. It is important that any consultants involved in the WCISW avoid duplication of
effort by reviewing in detail aUl studies carried out to date, by maldng full use of the results of the
work that has already been carried out and by coordinating their activities with others aledy
active in similar fields of activity in the WCR, including the IMO Regional Maritime Safety
Adviser for the Caribbean and the Regional Consultant on Marine Pollution (as indicated in the
following paragraph).
8.   The following list of persons, iniiatives and activities is not exhaustive and provides an
indication of other initiatives and actvities with which some form of coordiation or cooperation
might be useful for the WCISW:
-     Caribbean Action Plan and the Cartagena Convention;
-     the IMO/Norway Cooperation Programn's Regional Maritime Safety Adviser for the
Caribbean;
-     the Regional Cons:ultant on Marine Pollution, Port Safety and Security (Wider
Caribbean) financed by the US Coast Guard;
-     IMO regional Coordinator on Marine Environment Protecton for Latin America;
-     ROCRAM, ROCRAM/CA;
-     LEGISMAR project excuted by the IMO and UNCrAD;
-     The OECS (Organization of Eastern Caribbean States) Waste Management Project;
and
the efforts by INO's Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC) to develop
a Manual on Reception Facilities.



- 22 -
Furthermore, several regional and sub-regional organizations in the WCR may be acfive in areas
that are relevant to the objectives of the WCISW.
9.    The scope of work of the various activities of the Legal Consultant outlined in the previous
chapter will be as follows:
10.  Legal Consultant
(a)   Identification of legal requirements and remedies. This effort is aimed at promoting
an appropriate national/regional legal and institutional framework to facilitate
compliance with MARPOL 73/78 throughout the WCR.
(b)   Cooperation and coordination. A small legal steering committee composed by the
Project Coordinator and the Legal Consultant, comprising high level representatives
from the WCR's Spanish, English, Dutch and French speaking countries will be
established io ensure progress dC the WCISW, its Action Progran and coordination
with other initiatives. The representatives should total as a maximum only five or six
persons drawn from Government Departments involved in drafting maritime
legislation (e.g. the Attorney General's Office, Departments of Transport, Finance,
Economic Affairs, Public Health, Environment. as appropriate), CARICOM, etc.
(c)   Studies and fact-finding regardinr legislation and local erise. Teams of legal and
other experts will be established in each country (or in combinations of countries) as
task forces for drafting legislation. As in the case of the steering committee, these
national task forces will include representatives skilled in and involved in draftng of
maritime legislation drawn from Government departments involved in this process
such as possibly Attorney General Offices, Maritime Transport Departments, Port
Authorities, Environment and Public Health Authorities as required for the particular
laws and regulations in issue.
(d)   Inventory of existing national legislation. The inventory and analysis will address
and take account of the following issues:
availab-lity and adequacy of primary legislation that is relevant to maritime
legislation in general and to legislation for the implementation and
enforcement of MARPOL 73178 in parficular, taldng due account of the
differences in the legal systems in the region,
current saus of national legislation with respect to the prevention of marine
pollution from ships,



- 23 -
availability and adequacy of institutional and other administrative
arrangements in the maritime field in general and for the prevention of
marine pollution from ships in particular,
ongoing efforts to improve or develop maritime legislation in general and
legislation for the implementation and enforcement of MARPOL 73/78 in
particular, and
identification of developing countries of the WCR that will require assistance
or further assistance in improving or developing maritime legislation in
general and legislation for the implementation and enforcement of MARPOL
73/78 in particular including secondary legislation for implementation of its
Annexes and regulations.  A first legal workshop wAll be organized at a
later date to discuss such proposals or requests as have been made concerning
countries that require assistance in order to develop the necessary national
legislation and the form such assistance should take. The Legal Consultant
may him/herself offer assistance with dftng or arrange for a suitably
qualified (i.e. in respect of language and legal systems and maritime
experts) expert to provide assistance. This workshop should also discuss
such strategies as have been proposed for increasing the level of ratification
of MARPOL 73/78. f the number of countries requiring assistance is high,
the workshop should consider identifying countries or groups of countries, or
both, for which pilot projects will be developed. The possibilities of model
legislation or guidelines for drafting maritime legislation should also be
considered at this stage and any drafts developed should be put before the
workshop.
(e) A-nalysis of reasons why MARPOL 73/78 has not been ratified by some of the
developing countries of the WCR. By the time of the first legal workshop the
consultant, having reviewed the information available, including the information on
their national legislation made available to IMO by the delegates to the London
Workshop and appraised him/herself of deficiencies in the region concerning
legislation, will report his/her analysis of the reasons for this, which will be
discussed by the workshop with a view to developing and implementing a strategy to
overcome these.
(f)   Model legislation. Model legislation should be developed. The ESCAP Guidelines
for Maritime LegIslation might form a basis for this but more specific and detailed
models are likely to be required which will take account of the differences in legal
systems and languages and the special requirements of paricular countries. The
model legislation that is to be developed should provide a basis for hamonization on
a regional basis of the laws developed within each of legal systems (i.e. in each of
the different language and legal system areas) such as to enable an effective regime
for implementation and enforcement of MARPOL 73/78 thrmughout the region so



- 24 -
that no safe havens are created where otherwise illegal discharges may legally take
place.
(g)   MARPOL ratification strategy. The first legal workshop should discuss the strategy
to increase the level of ratification of MARPOL 73/78 as well as proposals
concerning which developing countries in the WCR should be given assistance for
the development of the necessary national legislation (as indicated under (c)).
(h)   Analysis of efforts to enforce and ensure compliance. An analysis of
enforcement/compliance efforts will be carried out after the necessary data have first
been gathered. A report thereon will be presented to the second legal workshop. The
analysis will relate to the types and number of vessels and aircraft used in
surveillance and enforcement, the number and nature of violations reported to flag
States concerned, the most cost-effective methods, the economic and practical
benefits of joint enforcement schemes, and identification of possible models for this.
Alternative methods of enforcement by inspections in port and reports to flag States
and IMO will also be analyzed as well as the possible harmoniztion of such
inspections as addressed in ongoing efforts by the IMO based on models such as the
PMis and Vina del Mar agreements.
(i)   Strategy to improve enforcement/compliance efforts. The second legal workshop
will discuss the strategy for the enforcement of the discharge provisions of
MARPOL 73/78 and decide on specific activities to be undertaken to that effect and
any other further institution building that may be required. The need for harmonized
criteria or guidelines for port inspections will be considered as will the
harmonization of fines and other penalties and sanctions throughout the WCR as a
whole.
)   Development of national legislation Cincluding legal institution building). The first
legal workshop, if necessary divided in different sessions for the different language
and legal system areas, will discuss whai laws need to be developed and, if possible,
where efforts should be directed in developing specific legal action programs for the
various countries and what special needs have to be provided for such as e.g.
Grenada's 'fruit fly free' status with the United States of America. Task forces will
be established nationally in each country, in consultation with ffithe Legal Consultant,
consisting of local lawyers, technical and economic experts for the purpose of
drafting legislation to implement MARPOL 73178, including the required
reguations. The likely need of outside assistance for these task forces will be
evaluated and discussed at the first legal workshop.
(k)   Training sessions for drafting of legislation. Training programs and/or problem
solving seminars, as and when appropriate, will be organized on a sub-regional basis
to assist legal draftsmen and others concerned in the enactment of legislation to solve



- 25 -
any problems they may encounter in developing this legislation for their respective
countries. To the extent possible, experts from the countries within the sub-regions
will be encouraged to assist each other by organizing such training and problem-
solving sessions or exchanging experts within the different language and legal system
areas. Such training sessions may be organized either in conjunction with the first
and second workshops or separately, according to which is determined to be the
most cost-effective option.
(O)    Training sessions for enforcement efforts. Training programs will be developed for
legal draftsmen, enforcement officers, port officials and others involved in the
enforcement processes, including surveyors and others operating the port State
inspection system introduced by MARPOL 73178.Outputs
11.   The Legal Consultant will provide brief (2 to 3 pages) quarterly reports on the progress of
all activities relating to his/her scope of work based on a pre-agreed schedule of activities. These
will be submitted to the project Coordinator for consolidation with other progress reports to be
submitted to the IMO/.
Other specific outputs will be as follows:
12.   Stage l.
I.    Legal Inventory.
A report will be published before the first legal workshop contining the following
elements:
-     an inventory and analysis of existing legislation for the implementation of
MARPOL 73/78 in all the developing countries in the WCR;
-     proposals for r :odel legislation as appropriate for the different language and
legal system areas (French, English, Dutch and Spanish) in the developing
countries of the WCR;
-     an analysis of reasons why MARPOL 73/78 and/or its optional Annexes have
not been ratified (where appropriate);
-     a strategy to increase ratification of MARPOL 73/78 and its optional
Annexes.



- 26 -
H.   First Lenal Workshop.
The first Legal Workshop will be held at the end of the first year after the
commencement of the contract. This workshop will discuss the Legal Inventory (see
1) and should result in:
-     the identification of countries that require assistance in order to develop the
necessary national legislation,
a strategy to increase the level of ratification of MARPOL 73/78, and
a strategy for the enforcement of and compliance with the provisions of
MARPOL 73/78.
13.  The Legal Consultant will prepare a report on the proceedings of the workshop identifying
all agreements reached.
14.  Stage 2 and 3.
m.   Enforcement and Compliance Report.
A report will be published before the second Legal Workshop containing an
evaluation of current enforcement efforts and a strategy to improve enforcement of
MARPOL 73/8.
IV.  Second Legal Workshop
The second Legal Workshop (to be held 1 year after the first workshop) will discuss
the Enforcement and Compliance Report and the status of MARPOL 73178
ratification (status of activities agreed during the first workshop) and should result
in:
an agreed strategy to improve the enforcement and ratification of MARPOL
73/78 in the WCR, and
proposals for the harmoniadon of enforcement efforts and of fines and other
penalties and sanctions throughout the WCR
The Legal Consultant will prare a report on tcc proceedings of the workshop
identifying the follow up plan of action.
15.  All the work to be covered under the WCISW initiative is expected to conclude within three
years from the date of finalization of the contractual agreements with the consultants.
Following the fftird technical workshop and the second legal workshop, the Project



- 27 -
Coordinator, assisted by the two consultants, is expected to produce the final WCISW
document at defines all the actvities and investments proposed for Phase II of the
initiative to be funded by donors, international and regional institutions and national
governments. This document will be tabled at the final workshop.



- 28 -
Wider Caribbean Initiative for
Ship-Generated Waste
Terms of Reference Project Coordinator



- 29 -
Action Program
The Project Coordinator's Task
1.   It is envisaged that the services of both legal and technical consultants, supported by the
Project Coordinx*wor, will be required to execute the Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-Generated
Wastes (WCISVv and that their services will be carried out, to the extent possible, in parallel.
2.    The services to be provided under the Terms of Reference of the WCISW involve the
completion of the following tsks to be carried out by a Project Coordinator in cooperation with the
Legal Consultant and the Technical Consultant.
(a)   To assist IMO in the selecdon of legal and technical consultants, in accordance with
guidelines, to carry out the tasks identified for the WCISW.
(b)   To liaise with the developing countries of the WCR in ox ',r to achieve optimal
effectiveness of the WCISW and to be involved in missions to visit Govenments of
these countries.
(c)   To develop cooperation with IMO's regional advisers including national, regional
and international institutions involved in the issues addressed by the WCISW and to
coordinate activities with the relevant ongoing activities of IMO's regional advisers
as well as national and regional insdtutions in order to achieve optimal effectiveness
of the various activities and initiatives and to avoid duplication or incompatibility of
efforts or both.
(d)   To liaise with the and to brief GEF Members, developing countries of the WCR,
potential donors, financng institutions and non-governmental organizations with
specific projects that might result from the WCISW.
(e)   To facilitate whatever special institutional arrangements are necessary to ensure that
appropriate mechanisms are established to facilitate adequate coordination between
the consultants and countnes, and intenational and regional organizations involved.
(1)   To undertak overal coordination and administraton of the WCISW and its Action
Program and provision of support to the legal and technical consultants.
(g)   To facilitate the execution of workshops, seminars and taining sessions to be
undertaken as part of the WCISW.
(h)   Together with the Technical Consultant, develop strategies for public awareness
programs and reach agreements with the countries of the Wider Caribbean region to
disseminate the programs within their national boundaries.



- 30 -
Qi)   Produce the final WCISW document, assisted by tLa Technical as well as the Legal
Consultant, that defines all die activities and investment proposed for Phase II of the
initiative to be funded by donors, international and regional institutions and national
governments. This document will be tabled at the final workshop.
Scope of Work
3.    The activities to be carried out by the consultants, coordinated closely with IMO and the,
will include the preparation of data inventories and reports, drafting of agreements and legislation,
the convening of legal and technical workshops, visits and high level missions to all the developing
countries of the WCR as and when possible.
Six workshops are envisaged in thfe WCISW:
two legal workshops, the first focusing on national legislation necessary for the
implementaton of MARPOL 73/78 and the second focusing on enforcement of and
compliance with MARPOL 73/78;
d t  technical workshops, the first focusing on the source reduction of wastes and
the existing provision for port reception of wastes in the region, the second focusing
on the strategy bluepnts for reception and associated waste management systems
and technical criteria for reception facilites, and the third on the country specific
key deficiencies identified, and possible mechanisms for addressing these
deficiencies; and
the sixh and final workshop to discuss the outcome of the WCISW, to discuss the
actions required to bring about full effectiveness of the special area designation of
the Caribbean under MARPOL, and to present these f.ndings to the interational
funding agencies.
4.   In recent years a considerable amount of work has already been undertkn on the review
and assessment of maritime legislation in the WCR (mosdy in relation to ship safety) and of solid
waste management systems by a varety of agencies including the IMO and regional bodies and
Governments. It is important hat any consultants involved in the WCISW avoid duplication of
effort by reviewing in detail all studies carried out to date and by making full use of the results of
the work that has already been carried out and by coordinating their activities with others already
active in similar fields of activity in the WCR, including the IMO Regional Martime Safiet
Adviser for the Caribbean and the Regional Consulant on Marine Pollution as indicaed in the
following paragraph.



- 31 -
S.    The following list of persons, initiatives and activities is not exhaustive and provides an
indication of other initiatives and activities with which some form of coordination or cooperation
might be useful for the WCISW:
-     Caribbean Action Plan and the Cartagena Convention;
-     the IMO/Norway Cooperation Program's Regional Maritime Safety Adviser for the
Caribbean;
-     the Regional Consultant on Marine Pollution, Port Safety and Security (WiLder
Caribbean) financed by USAID in conjunction with the US Coast Guard;
-     IMO Regional Coordinator on Marine Environment Protection for Latin America;
-     ROCRAM, ROCRAMICA;
-     LEGISMAR project executed by the IMO and UJNCTAD;
The OECS (Organization of Eastern Caribbean States) Waste Management Project;
and
the efforts by IMO's Marine Eiwironment Protection Committee MEPC) to develop
a Manual on Reception Facilities.
Furthermore, several regional and sub-regional o ins in the WCR may be active in areas
that are relevant to the objectives of the WCISW.
6.    The scope of work of the various activities of the Project Coordinat outlined in the
previous chapter will be as follows.
7.    Praoect Coordinator
(a)   Selection of consulls. The Project Coordinator will, in cooperation with the
IMO, assist in fte selecdon of the other long term consultants, one Legal Consultant
and one Technical Consultant
(b)   Cpration and coordination wjili States and Territories. Two small steering
committees, one lepl and one technical, composed by the Project Coordinator and
the appropriate Consultant, composed of high level rpresentatives from the countries
of the WCR's Spanish, English, Dutch, and French speaking countries will be
established to ensure progress of the WCISW, its Action Program and coordiation
with other initatives. The representatives should total as a maximum only five or six
persons. The Project Coordinator will also assist the Legal and Technical
Consultants in collectng data from Canbbean States and Teritories with regard to



- 32 -
the present situation regarding legislation, reception icilities and waste management
systems.
(c)   Coration and coordination with others involved. The two small steering
committees indicated under (b). will also be important to ensure coordination with
others such as international and regional organizations. The Project Coordinator will
be responsible for fostering regional cooperation through the project. It will be the
duty of the Project Coordinator to use the WCISW to encourage closer coordination
and tht establishment of as many common approaches and standards as possible. The
Project Coordinator, supported by the steering committee (or steerig committees),
will iiaise closely with international and regional organizations and others involved in
-work that might be relevant to the WCISW to ensure complementarily of WCISW
activities with those of others.
(d)   nI)wem-ent of necsa  institutional arrngements. The Project coordinator will
set up the coordinative and support mechanisms necessary to ensure that the
consultants are able to complete the project tasks in an efficient manner. In
particular, the Project Coordinator will assist in setting up a system of contact points
in each country which will enable the consultants to organize their activities in each
of these countries effectively.
(e)   Overall administration of the project. The Project Coordinator will be responsible
for all administraive and monitoring of project progress including financial
allocations and disbursements, to be reported on a quarterly based as part of the
Quarterly Reports.
(f    Organizafion of workshops. The Project Coordinator will, in discussion with the
legal and technical consultants (as appropriate), assist as necessary in the
development and organization of workshops and taining sessions.
(g)   Progress reporting and final evaluation of the WCISW project  The Project
Coordinator will provide a quarterly report to WB and IMO describing progress and
achievement information on his own tasks and incorporating consolidated information
taken from the reports submitted quarterly by the Technical and Legal Consultnts
The Coordinator will also prepare a report evaluating project achievement on the
completion of the Study.



- 33 -
Outputs
S.    The Project Coordinator will provide IMOI quarterly reports on the progress of al1 activities
relating to the WCISW project based on a pre-agreed work program.
Other specific outputs will be as follows:
I.    With the assistance of the technical and legal consultants, publish and disseminate on
a timely basis, throughout the Caribbean, all reports produced under the WCISW
project.
I.   Contribute to the public awareness strategy and reach agreement with the respective
countries on its dissemination in the region.
HI. Prepare and submit to IMO and the quarterly/annual progress reports on the
Project.
IV. Prepare the final WCISW report that defines aU the activities and investnents
proposed for Phase II of the initiative to be funded by donors, international and
regional institutions and national governments.
V.   Prepare the Charman's report on the proceedings of the sixth Workshop and
distribute it to all participants.
VI. Prepare the project evaluation document in accordance with guidelines for Project
Completion Reports.



- 34 -
MARPOL 73178
Country                         MARPOL Annexes
I f m 1V V
1.  AntiguaandBarbuda                x  x  x  x  x
2.  Aruba                            x  x  x        x
3.  Rahamas                          x  x  x        x
4.  Baitados
5. Weize
6.  Colombia                         x  xx     x x
7. Costa Rica
8.  Cuka                             x  x
9.  Dominica
10. Dominican Republic
11. Fren.ch Antilles and .flyaga     x  x  x  x  x
(Guadeloupe, Matinique,
St. Martin, St. Barthelemy,
French Guyana)
12. Grenda
13. Guamala
14. Gyana
15. 
16. Honduras
17. Jamaica                          x  x      xx
18. MPIco                            x   x
19. Nherlands Antilles               x  x  x        x
(Bonaire, Curacao, Saba,
St. Eustasius, St. Maarten)
20. Nkaraw
21.   amas  x   x  x x   x
22. St. Kitts and Nevis
23. St. Lu
24. St. Vincent and -the Grenadines   x  x  x  x  x
25. S     una                         x    c x   x x  x
26. Trinidad and Tobago
27. United Kingdom
Angwlla
British Virgin Islands
Caym  Islands                    x  x  K        x
Mont
Turks and Caicos Isands
28. United  tes  Ameca Ax  x  x                      x.
29. VYezuea



- 35 -
WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE FOR SHIP GENERATED WASTE
(WCISW)
World Bank
(Supervision)
I M O
(Supervision)
PROJECT COORDINATOR
{based in the region)
Legal Advisor                                                   Technical Advisor
Assisted by steering committee                                    Assisted by steering committee
Local Consultants                                                 Local Consultants



IBRD 26029R
\, i04                       U N  I T E D   S T A T E S                                                           so ,0                                    3E                                     64                                                                                32'
0  F   A M  E R I C A
THE WIDER CARIBBEAN AREA
4'                                                  --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'14-
M      1:    l  i         I
2A'
TrA, and                        /     1    1    A        N      7I
K  C                                      CaleeAlUK)
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(S
CamnIs.                                HAITI )DOMINICAN                        US) end (UK) 
C                                                                                      Cr(UmrK) 1&.                                  )    REPUBLIC                                     s-Sr. aralnr (FR
,  1                   Pser                  II       ANTIGOA end BARBUDA
Rko IUS      Sate NaSAl
-le                                                       N.           3EUZE                                                      JAMAICA                                                      Si. Knineiu. (Sal)          bdalcnip JFR
N,    BELIZE                                                                                                                 S.KTS       E         ~        dW,(R
MnisrreF iUKJI          , DOMINICA
. :MParilqua (FR1
S  GUATEMALA    *t                                                                                                                                                        ST. LUCIA
HONDURAS    .tl_r'                                                                                                                   ST. VINCENT          3ARBADOS
r1    *                                                                                                                                          D   RBNAEINBS
EL SALVADOR    .                                                                                           a
NICARAGUA                                                                          (Nnn C-q.  N.th)                                   GRENADA
TRINIDAD and
TOBAGO
cc;
'   I    t                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA 
RICA                        14 
-a '5 PA  N                                                                                  /V    E    N                                             E    Z                L   A
E  ':    .'    A  N                                           s                              ,>                         1,                                                             t.r'
?                                      ,J  %           r                  f FRENCH
VJ 'w  'f   l  SURINAME    K, GUIANA
° 100  290 290  490  590  69o 790  890 KILOMETERS                                                                                     \                                                                                         '1'                       k         C
o i6o  200 s60  46o  560 MILES                                                                                                    COLOMBIA                                    \                                                  '   "               .r
rhh-ylelaealSolarrljldhoirtfnr ndrsxmorlrprpirreel                                                         ,r >               's,Li                     E   R   A   Z   I  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R A   Z I 
L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6TO  6-  .   aae  api   <s.  7ae  f  6,-  SsB  '!'
K  -~~~~~~~~''  B  R   A      Z~~~~~~~~EPEmE 19



