Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19494
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES OF THE WIDER CARIBBEAN REGION
THE WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE ON
SHIP-GENERATED WASTE (WCISW) PROJECT
(GET GRANT NUMBER TF028653)
June 25, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 3
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = US$
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR OF GRANT RECIPIENT
January 1L - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCWCR -         Developing Countries of the WCR (includes the following Caribbean
countries with GDP per capita of less than US$4,000 in 1989): Antigua &
Barbuda; Belize; Colombia; Costa Rica; Cuba; Dominica; Dominican
Republic; Grenada; Guatemala; Guyana; Haiti; Honduras; Jamaica;
Mexico; Nicaragua; Panama; St. Kitts & Nevis; St. Lucia; St. Vincent &
the Grenadines; Suriname; Trinidad & Tobago; Venezuela
ENV   -         Environment Department
GEF  -          Global Environment Facility
GET  -          Global Environment Trust Fund
IMO   -         International Maritime Organization
LIB    -        Limited International Bidding
MARPOL 73/78 - International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973
as modified by the 1978 Protocol
MOE  -          Ministry of the Environment
MOF  -          Ministry of Finance
NGO   -         Non Governmental Organization
OECS  -         Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU   -         Project Coordination Unit
PPA   -         Project Preparation Advance
SDR   -         Special Drawing Rights
WCISW -         Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-generated Waste
WCR   -         Wider Caribbean Region (includes the above DCWCR countries plus the
following countries and territories: Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, British
Virgin Islands, French Antilles and Guyana, Netherlands Antilles, United
States, United States Virgin Islands)
Vice President:       Shahid Javed Burki, LCR
Country Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, LCC3C
Sector Manager:       Maria Donoso Clark, LCC3C
Task Team Leader:     Usamah Dabbagh, LCSFP



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE
TABLE OF CONTENTS   Page Nos.
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                            i - iV
PART I   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.           Statement/Evaluation of project objectives                          1
B.           Achievement of project objectives and components                    2
C.           Major factors affecting the project                                 2
D.           Project sustainability                                              4
E.           Bank performance                                                    4
F.           Grant recipient's performance                                       7
G.           Assessment of outcome                                               8
H.           Future operation                                                    8
I.            Key lessons learned                                                9
PART II      STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                                             12
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits                                         13
Table 3A     Project Timetable                                                  13
Table 3B:    Withdrawal Application Requests by IMO and Subsequent Bank Releases 14
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual         15
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                         16
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation                                17
Table 7A:    Studies Included in Project                                         18
Table 7B:    A listing of the reports prepared as part of the WCISW Project     19
Table 8A:    Project Costs                                                      21
Table 8B:    Project Financing.                                                 21
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                                        22
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                                          22
Table I 1:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                     22
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                       22
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                           22
Table 14:    Schedule of Outputs against Planned Completion Dates.              23
Table 15:    Status of IMO Marine Pollution Conventions                         26
APPENDIX:
A:           Grant recipient contribution to the ICR
B:           Feedback from beneficiary countries
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE ON
SHIP-GENERATED WASTE (WCISW) PROJECT
(GET GRANT NUMBER TF028653)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Wider Caribbean
Initiative on Ship-generated Waste Project in the 22 developing countries of the Wider
Caribbean Region for which Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement GET, Grant
Number TF028653 of August 1, 1994 in the amount of US$ 5.5 million/SDR 3.9 million
equivalent was approved on June 30, 1994 and made effective on September 1, 1994. The
Bank was trustee and the International Maritime Organization (IMO) was the recipient and
executing agency.
The Grant was closed on January 31, 1998, which was the original closing date. Final
disbursement took place in May 1998, at which time a balance of US$ 1.7 million was
cancelled. There was no cofinancing, though six countries (Canada, Costa Rica, Mexico,
Spain, Sweden and USA) provided experts for secondments during the project. The IMO
provided funding through the Technical Cooperation Fund for national seminars and a legal
expert during the project and for a workshop held after the project was closed.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Michel Audige, AFTT2 and Alan Harding
(consultant), with reference to a draft prepared by Mr. Usamah Dabbagh, Task Manager,
LCSFP and reviewed by Mrs. Maria Donoso Clark, Ms. Christine Kimes and Mr. Usamah
Dabbagh, also by Messrs. Carl Lundin ENV and Charles Di Leva, LEGEN. The grant
recipient (IMO) provided comments that are included in summary form as an Appendix to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in May
1997. It is based on material in the project file. The grant recipient contributed to preparation
of the ICR by preparing its own ICR with summary. These documents were reviewed with
senior IMO officers during a visit to London by the consultant in October 1998.
As the countries were not directly involved in the management of the project, but
clearly remain the beneficiaries of it, the Bank invited the 22 countries to provide their
feedback on a draft summary of the ICR in May 1999. The responses received (see Appendix),
endorsed the ICR's summary findings.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE ON
SHIP-GENERATED WASTE (WCISW) PROJECT
(GET GRANT NUMBER TF028653)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)   The Wider Caribbean initiative for Ship-generated Waste (WCISW) was
innovative: it was the first time that the Bank had been directly concerned with the
implementation of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
Ships (MARPOL 73/78) and the first time that the Bank had worked with the
International Maritime Organization, the UN agency responsible for promoting and
monitoring MARPOL 73/78 implementation. It was also the first time that a single Bank
project had involved all 22 developing countries of the Wider Caribbean Region. Under
the project the sum of $ 5.5 million was made available from the Global Environmental
Trust Fund, with the Bank as GEF Implementing Agency and the International Maritime
Organization (IMO) as Recipient and Executing Agency (ICR Part I, paragraphs 1 and 2).
Project Objectives
(ii)   The objective of the project was to provide a regional strategy for the ratification
of Annexes I, II and V of MARPOL 73/78 by the 22 DCWCR countries, by providing
governments with (i) inforrnation on the legal, technical and institutional measures
required and (ii) a forum for reaching a regional consensus on the actions to be taken.
Training was envisaged to assist in the implementation of the strategy. Such ratification
of MARPOL 73/78 by the 22 DCWCR countries would prohibit the discharge of oily,
noxious liquids and garbage within the Caribbean with significant environmental
benefits, including the protection of the environmental integrity of coastal and marine
systems and a reduction in public health threats by the strengthening of national waste
management systems throughout the Wider Caribbean Region (idem, paragraphs 3 and
4).
(iii)  The Grant Agreement, between the Bank and IMO included Covenants related to
procurements where Bank Guidelines were to be used "except as the Trustee shall
otherwise agree", for the preparation of action plans every 9 months, for progress reports
every three months and for the provision of periodic audit reports.  The Grant was to
cover a period of 3.5 years, unless extended by the Trustee.
(iv)   The project objectives were timely and important in the positive environmental
impact of a successful project. However, in the absence of a regional IMO office and



given that project included 22 countries., with two legal systems and four different
languages, and without a common institution, the period allowed for completion of the
project was optimiistic and important elements of the project were not completed before
the closing date. (idem, paragraphs 8, 12 and 19).
Implementation, Experience and Results
(v)    The major achievement of the project is that there is now an acceptance by the
DCWCR countries of the importance of a strategy for the implementation of MARPOL
73/78.  The Project Document identified. four monitoring indicators: (a) Actions in
support of proper waste management, (b) Ratification of the MARPOL 73/78
Convention,1 (c) Adoption of legislation in support of the MARPOL 73/78 Convention,
and (d) Dissemination of Public Awareness Programs, with target numbers of countries
for each. In each category, the target indicator was reached within the project period. For
the principal indicator, ratification of the MARPOL 73/78 Convention, eight countries
had ratified the Convention when the project was initiated, 6 more ratified the
Convention during the period of the project and another is in process of ratification.
There is no doubt that the project contributed to this important and satisfactory state of
affairs (idem, paragraph 30).
(vi)   The position is less satisfactory on the wider issues. What is still lacking is an
agreed regional strategy and the internalization of the procedures necessary for long-term
sustainability in the 22 countries, where technical and legal training is required, on the
basis of a continuing effort in the countries (idem, paragraph 29 and 31). The Bank's
OECS project, Solid and Ship-generated Waste Management, which was initiated
drawing on the WCISW project, will make a valuable contribution in this respect for the
six countries involved.
(vii)  Actual expenditures under the project were less than estimated because of the
incomplete items and about 30% of the project amount was cancelled. Slippage occurred
in all components of the project, initially relatively minor, in the establishment of the
Project Coordination Unit, then more substantial in the hiring of consultants for the
Public Awareness Campaign and the Legal and Technical Consultants. Some studies had
slippages of 30 mnonths. As a consequence of these and other factors, the planned
Workshops, where the results of the consultants' work was to be divulged to the
countries, were delayed and the Final Workshop did not take place within the project
(idem, paragraphs 10, 11 and 12).
(viii) The project would have experienced time over-runs under the best of
circumstances for the reasons referred to above in paragraph (iv). On top of this, the
inability of the Bank and IMO to establish a fluid long-term working relationship caused
additional delay, due largely to differences in procedures.  The Project Document
tThe MARPOL 73/78 Convention has a number of Annexes. For a country to be a Contracting Party to the
Convention, it must ratify Annex I (oil) and Annex 11 (noxious liquids). Annex V which was an
important element of the projects refers to garbage from ships. Other annexes in force or proposed refer to
harmful substances in packaged formn, sewage (normally covered under Port Regulations), emissions and
noise pollution.



- iii -
envisaged a "one on one" organization, with, as stated, "joint supervision" of project
activities by Bank and IMO. The IMO proved unable or unwilling to complying with
Bank procedures and to meet the agreed deadlines, set out in two Action Plans (1995 and
1997), and agreed with the Bank. IMO has its own way of working with responsibility
effectively shared between different directorates and this caused problems when
confronted with the task-oriented approach of the Bank. Unsatisfactory performance by
the legal advisor was a further source of delay (idem, paragraphs 10, 18, and 25-27).
(ix)   The decision of the Bank to close the project at the programmed date was made
despite a Declaration prepared by participants at the 2nd Legal Workshop and subsequent
requests for extension from several of the countries concerned (and IMO). The decision
to close was based on the Bank's judgement that this was a project where agreed
deadlines (benchmarks) were not achieved and in the face of what was considered by the
Bank to be the inability of IMO to follow agreed procedures and Action Plans. (idem,
paragraphs 22, 23 and 28).
(x)   The outcome of the project is difficult to assess. It was found to be positive, as
reflected in the feedback from the countries, in that the implementation of MARPOL
73/78 has been advanced and key indicators, as defined in the project document, have
been attained. However, a regional strategy was not developed and agreed among the 22
countries, and important elements including training were left incomplete when the
project was closed. On balance, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory
(idem paragraphs 30 and 31).
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
(xi)  The Project Document envisaged possible follow-on work, to consist of the
identification of donors for investments in port reception facilities, waste management
infrastructure and institutional training programs. Some of these aspects have been
included in other Bank projects and others form part of the on-going activities by IMO
towards the implementation of MARPOL 73/78; both efforts will contribute to the
sustainability of project objectives (idem, paragraph 29).
(xii) Key lessons as learned from the WCISW project are:
(a)   a project involving 22 countries with four languages and two different legal
systems is ambitious and the estimates made in the Project Document of the time
required to reach consensus, especially on the need for new legislation, were not
realistic. IMO had no regional office assigned to the project. A more thorough
preparation with greater country involvement would have contributed to the
timely implementation of the project. In these and other institutional aspects
referred to below, quality at entry impacted negatively on project implementation;
(b)   respective responsibilities for supervision and procurement should have been
better defined and agreed more precisely, prior to project signing, in order to
prevent an unreasonable expenditure of energy on coordination during the
execution of the project. A project with procurement issues should involve the



iv -
Bank's procurement advisors both at project definition and during project
execution, even when relatively small sums are involved, in order to achieve a
reasonable flexibility in project execution;
(c)   preparation would have been improved by more intensive involvement of the
Bank's legal and environmental specialists. Similarly, a team approach should be
adopted for project supervision;
(d)   the appointment of an external agency, IMO, as executing agency imposes a
barrier between the Bank and the beneficiary countries. There was in fact no
borrower (recipient) in the normal sense of the term. In these circumstances it is
vitally important during supervision. to establish an effective mechanism for feed-
back from the countries to the Bank., based on the acceptance and implementation
of project results;
(e)   as no suitable institution existed which embraced all countries involved in the
WCISW project, special attention should have been given to the involvement of
suitable subregional organizations. This is especially relevant when there exist
differences between project count:ries in language, legal traditions and other
aspects that may impact project success.  These aspects should have been
addressed in the Project Document;
(f)    Action Plans were prepared and agreed with the recipient in the course of the
project, though without a significant effect on project implementation. Where, as
in this case, the project represents a new area of work for the Bank (and the first
experience of Bank/IMO cooperation), a formal mid-term review should have
been included in the Project Document;
(g)   the decision to close was based on the Bank's judgement that this was a project
where agreed deadlines (benchmarks) were not achieved and in the face of what
was considered by the Bank to be the inability of IMO to follow agreed
procedures and Action. The decision to close the project on the originally
programmed date did not reflect the wishes of its member countries in the Region
at the time and has caused some delay in the implementation of MARPOL 73/78
in the DCWCR countries.
(h)   Action the Bank should continue to support the efforts of IMO and governments
to implement and sustain MARPOL 73/78 in the WCR, using existing and
planned projects (idem, paragraph 35).
Feedback receiveid from beneficiary countries
(xiii) A draft Evaluation Summary of the ICR was sent to beneficiary countries for
review by letter dated May 7, 1999. From the seven responses received (see appendix), it
has been generally agreed that the proposed draft Executive Summary was complete and
constituted a fair post-project evaluation (idem paragraph 36).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE ON
SHIP-GENERATED WASTE (WCISW) PROJECT
(GET GRANT NUMBER TF028653)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The Caribbean Sea forms a circular and partially closed system so that floating
garbage and other discharges from ships tend to accumulate on its beaches. This
pollution has serious environmental consequences and results in economic loss, made
worse by the dependence of the region on tourism. The position is critical on account of
the increasing number of ships, including cruise liners, which operate in the region. In
order to clean up and protect the Caribbean Sea, the Wider Caribbean Region was
designated a "Special Area" under Annex V of the MARPOL 73/78 Convention, ratified
in 1994. Under the terms of this Annex, ships are prohibited from discharging any waste
materials into the sea, except for food waste (and then only when more than 12 nautical
miles from land).
2.    At the time of the project, only 6 of the 22 Developing Countries of the Wider
Caribbean Region had ratified Annex V (with Annexes I and II) of the MARPOL
Convention and a further 3 had ratified only Annexes I and 112. A country that ratifies
Annex V has to provide adequate port reception facilities for receiving ship-generated
wastes, liquid and solid, and to implement national legislation, which will enable
enforcement of the Convention in its waters. These requirements are demanding in terms
of cost and their technical and legal/institutional implications, and the Project Document
attributed the poor record of ratification for these DCWCR countries to these factors. The
Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-generated Waste (WCISW) project was conceived in
the Project Document as a contribution to a longer term process, which would address
these issues and so contribute to the cleaning up of the Caribbean.
3.    The objective of the Project was to provide the technical and legal components of
a regional strategy for the ratification of MARPOL 73/78 by the 22 DCWCR countries,
by providing governments with (i) infornation on the legal, technical and institutional
measures required and (ii) a forum for reaching a regional consensus on the actions to be
taken.  The project consisted of technical assistance in legal and technical aspects of
compliance with MARPOL 73/78, together with workshops, training and a technical
awareness campaign and the briefing of potential donors. The International Maritime
Organization (IMO) had participated in project formulation and was made executing
2Annexes I (oil) and II (noxious liquids) are mandatory so that a country which ratifies Annex V
necessarily has to ratify Annexes I and 11. A country may however ratify Annexes I and II without
choosing to ratify Annex V.



-2-
Organization (IMO) had participated in project formulation and was made executing
agency for the project.  With successful completion of the first phase, the project
document envisaged a possible second phase, which could consist of investments in port
reception facilities., waste management infrastructure and institutional training programs.
4.    The commitment of the 22 countries concerned to the objective of the project had
been expressed through a Resolution agreed at a Workshop at IMO headquarters and
chaired by the Bank, in 1993. Nevertheless, the internalization of this commitment by the
governments concerned through the identification of the focal points was a lengthy
process. The Bank rightly took the view that the countries had to advance in unison and
this, and other factors discussed below, meant that the time required for the project, 3.5
years, was underestimated.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
5.    There is now acceptance by the DCWCR countries of the importance of a strategy
for the implementation of MARPOL 73/78, as shown by the agreement by 22 countries to
participate in the proposed IMO Forum, to have been held in October 19983. The
governments concerned are now fully aware of the implications of the implementation of
MARPOL 73/78 and, because of the project, have access to the information needed for
implementation. However there is still no explicit Regional Action Plan, with legal and
technical components, in part because of shortcomings in the work done during the
project and in part because of the absence of a suitable regional organization. The formal
training necessary for institution building and to support legal implementation has not
taken place.
6.    Full cost recovery for the collection, treatment and disposal of wastes under
MARPOL, as envisaged in the Project Document, has not been achieved, for reasons
discussed below (paragraph 15).
7.    The project contributed to raising the level of awareness of MARPOL in the
region and the Caribbean Sea is cleaner because of the project. Six additional DCWCR
countries have ratified the convention and a seventh has the matter in hand, but more
could have been accomplished, especially training aspects (see below, paragraphs 16 and
23).
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8.    The project included 22 countries, with two legal systems and four different
languages and without a common institution. The largest project country was Mexico,
with at the other end of the size spectrum, the smaller Caribbean islands. These factors
slowed project implementation. A possible institution to act as focus for the project was
UNEP, Jamaica, which had general responsibility for the Cartagena Convention4 but at
3The Forum, to have been held in Santo Domingo, was postponed because of Hurricane Georges. It was
finally held in February 1999.
4The Convention for the Protection and Development of the Marine Environment in the Wider Caribbean
Region, 1983, with subsequent protocols.



the time of project preparation, the UNEP requirement that the project be administered
out of Nairobi was not accepted by the Bank. UNEP was also reluctant to accept Bank
procurement procedures.
9.    The Bank was trustee for the project and the IMO was recipient. The Project
Document had envisaged joint supervision by the Bank and IMO of project activities but,
as described below, the two institutions were unable to establish a satisfactory long-term
working relationship. UNDP auditors provided quarterly audits of the PCU, with annual
audits by the UK General Audit Office (GAO), who are auditors for IMO. The Bank
requested an additional audit of PCU expenditure for locally hired consultants in
September 1997, but this request was not followed up. The GAO final audit of the
project finds its financial records to be satisfactory.
10.   The project envisaged three key personnel, the Project Coordinator, the Legal
Advisor and the Technical Advisor. The legal advisor, whose appointment was agreed by
IMO and the Bank, though very well qualified, turned out not to be the person for the job.
Replacement of the advisor was complicated by a number of factors and probably as
much as six months was lost to the project. Despite the Bank's advice to the contrary, the
advisor's contract was allowed to run its term, and supplemental resources were hired
(financed by IMO) to complete the legal documentation. The Bank had wished to hire a
firm to complete the work (and for IMO's legal department to take a stronger role at the
outset of the project).
11.   The procurement process was a source of continuing delay for the project, in
particular for the important Public Awareness Campaign, where possibly as much as 9
months were lost and for the hiring of the legal consultant. Procurement issues are
discussed below, under Bank Performance (paragraphs 20 and 26).
12.  The project was closed before it was complete, with two Workshops, training and
the Final Report still pending.  An extension had been requested by country
representatives present at the second Legal Workshop, supported by IMO, with follow-up
letters from a number of countries. These requests had a sympathetic reception by the
Bank but for reasons discussed below (paragraph 23), no extension past the original
programmed date was finally approved. This reduced the project impact and has delayed
fuller implementation of MARPOL 73/78 in the Region.



- 4 -
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.   The project's prospects for sustainability are reasonable though these would have
been improved by agreement on a regional strategy and, as noted above, by training.
Sustainability of project objectives requires ratification of MARPOL 73/78 by the
country concerned, and the provision of the appropriate legal and institutional framework
for its application, on a sound technical and economic basis. The project has matched the
monitoring targets of the Project Document though these are relatively modest, especially
for the adoption of legislation in support of MARPOL 73/78, where the target was for
adoption by just two countries (and two countries have in fact adopted legislation). The
legal requirement is documented under the project5 but a continuing effort is necessary to
get legislation in place in all the countries. This continuing effort depends on the efforts
(and budget) of IM[O, in the absence of a regional alternative.
14.   Similar considerations refer to the allocation of institutional responsibility for
MARPOL 73/78, which depends on the circumstances of each country, with a wide
variety of solutions and the ever-present risk that a new government will change
responsibility (and personnel). Responsibility in some countries is with the Ministry of
Finance or the Ministry of Agriculture, so that special arrangements (and training) will be
required in ship inspection procedures if enforcement is to be effective.
15.   Cost recovery is an important elernent in sustainability.  The concept of the
project document is of a stand-alone charge for Annex V wastes, though this may not
correspond to common commercial practice, in which these charges are often negotiated
between the port authority and the cruise line operator within the overall per capita tariff.
The port authority hires a contractor to do the work, so that the income from the charge
made has to be sufficient to pay the contractor. The technical report gives a discussion of
practice in the region (Vol. II, page 51, "Revenue Generation Alternatives").
16.   The technical work for the preparation of the regional strategy and Action Plan for
implementation was done by consultants who had been selected using agreed procedures.
Their work was subject to some criticism, though never in fact revised, for reasons
discussed below (paragraph 22) and IMO has produced a revised document, drawing on
the consultant's work. This document, together with the reports of the Legal Workshops,
provides a basis for the definition of a regional strategy.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   Project identification was innovative and fully consistent with the increasing
emphasis being given in the early 1990s to environmental protection in Bank projects.
However the project represented a new area of work for the Bank and a number of the
technical aspects of the Project Document are understandably imprecise. Thus the cost
5WCISW Report No. I "Rationale for the Legal Framework to Ratify and Implement MARPOL 73/78",
with Supplement entitled "Update on Existing Legislation in Countries of the WCR and their Compatibility
with MARPOL 73/78", with subsequent related documents provide a sound basis for the legal aspects. As
noted above, the Regional Action Plan based on an agreed strategy was not achieved.



-5-
estimates in the Project Document (Schedule A, table) show only five components,6
without any specific sum allocated to training activities, despite these being an integral
part of the project. Two Action Plans for the project were prepared and agreed with IMO
in 1995 and 1997, though without much effect on project implementation. A formal mid-
term review should have been included in the project, as defined by the Project
Document, to enable initial experience in its execution to be built on. In respect of the
aspects of the Project Document mentioned above and agreements reached at negotiations
with the Executing Agency, there is some doubt of the project's quality at entry.
18.   A substantial supervision effort was provided by the Bank, including valuable
support for the legal component from the Bank's legal department. Such legal input by
the Bank was not explicitly envisaged in the Project Document and a team approach to
supervision should have been envisaged from the start. The concept of joint supervision
of the project, "by both IMO and the Bank" as stated in paragraph 6 of the Project
Document did not contribute to clarification of the respective roles of the Bank as trustee
and IMO as recipient, especially as the Organization Chart for the project shows World
Bank (Supervision) above IMO (Supervision) (Project Document, page 35).
19.   The Project Document correctly identified the project's main risks to be those
"associated with the need for many countries to act in a coordinated manner and to enter
into timely agreements among themselves on regional waste management policy and
international waste management programs". Nevertheless, the Project Document does
not discuss the need for involvement of the countries concerned, apart from showing two
steering committees in the organization chart for the project, which were set up during
project execution.
20.   The Grant Agreement states that "Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement", i.e., according to Bank
Guidelines. The Bank as trustee did not otherwise agree and IMO continued to try to
apply its own procedures (see below, paragraph 26). A greater degree of flexibility might
have been shown by the Bank and IMO, based on advice from the Bank's procurement
specialists, who were not significantly involved in the project. The emergence of these
difficulties in coordination should have shown the need for a Mid-term review.
21.   Legal and technical work was required in each of the 22 countries, as well as the
overall legal and technical consultancy services. Individual consultants were hired for
these in-country tasks and in all more than 60 consultants were hired, with consequential
administrative load both for procurement, where the Bank insisted on the review and
approval of individual terms of reference, for coordination of their work and for the
evaluation of work done. The use of individual consultants rather than a much smaller
nurmber of firms, had been envisaged in the project Document as a way of increasing
countries' experience and the Bank gave its agreement during supervision, though
apparently with reservations.
6Technical Assistance, PCU, Administration and Supervision (IMO), Workshops and Public Awareness
Program.



- 6-
22.   Consultants were hired to prepare a Regional Waste Management Strategy under
what was the largest single contract of the project, contract value $404,000.  The
consultants submitted their final report in two volumes dated April 28 and May 16, 1997.
A preliminary review by the Bank detected certain weaknesses and instructions were
given that comments should be obtained on the reports' recommendations from the 22
countries. This was a slow process and by the time of the Second Technical Workshop in
September 1997, the IMO had taken the view that the consultants had complied with their
terms of reference and were initiating payment procedures.  Given the amount,
disbursement would be made by the Bank. The Bank took the view that there should be
no payment until assurances were received from participating countries "that the report
provides them with a clear strategy on how to proceed on the technical component to
implement MARPOL  73/78".  The report was subsequently reviewed both by a
consultant paid for by IMO, and internally by ENV. The ENV review commented that
"the technical report while far from perfect does a credible job in responding to the terms
of reference", and suggested that the consultants be invited to address the points that had
been flagged. This coincided closely with the view of the consultant hired by IMO.
Accordingly the IMO was informed on October 24, 1997 that disbursement had been
approved by the Bank. The opportunity to get the consultants to address the points that
had been identified had been lost and the episode resulted in the Bank losing confidence
in IMO capability to manage the project.
23.   Various options were considered within the Bank, including an extension of the
closing date to enable training to be completed but subject to agreement by IMO on the
replacement of the Project Coordinator and a revision of the remaining budget, or
alternatively to close the project at the programmed closing date of January 31, 1998,
canceling undisbursed funds7. The first alternative was unlikely to be acceptable to IMO
and given the late stage of the project was scarcely practical. The decision to close was
based on the Bank's judgement, based on earlier experience, that this was a project where
the agreed deadlines (benchmarks) of the 1997 Action Plan were not going to be
achieved. Closure meant accepting that the project was incomplete, leaving undone the
activities mentioned in paragraph 12 above. A fax informing IMO of the decision to
close the project on the programmed date was sent to IMO on Oct 31, 1997 and the
countries were formally advised by the Bank of the closing of the project by letter dated
February 3, 1998.
'Memo dated Oct 2, 1 997. The three options suggested were: (i) Recognize the inadequacy of IMO's
implementation of the project, but continue to toleraLte the situation, provided the coordinating team is
replaced and the budget for the remaining activities revised. Extend the closing date so that training can be
completed; (ii) Close the project at the closing date of January 31, 1998, and cancel undisbursed funds, or
(iii) Terminate the role of IMO as early as possible and substitute Bank execution for remaining activities
(mainly training).



- 7 -
F.    GRANT RECIPIENT'S PERFORMANCE
24.   The IMO was identified as recipient of the GEF grant and executing agency in the
original Project Document, on account of its position as the UN agency responsible for
promoting and monitoring MARPOL 73/78. Under the Grant Agreement, the IMO as
recipient was made responsible for the execution of the project, in accordance with Bank
procedures and for submitting periodic action plans, technical reports and audit reports.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was to be established by IMO with Bank approval of
its personnel.
25.   The IMO proved incapable of complying with Bank procedures and meeting the
agreed deadlines. IMO has its own way of working with responsibility effectively shared
between different directorates and this caused problems when confronted with the task-
oriented approach of the Bank. The supervision of the PCU was an IMO responsibility
and a senior officer (on secondment from US Coastguard) was assigned for this task.
There was a serious interruption to project continuity caused by the withdrawal of this
officer within the first year after the initiation of the project. As a result of this, both
Bank and IMO intervened in the work of the PCU, and in the absence of a lack of clear
definition in the Bank/IM0 relationship, the PCU lacked the authority to resolve
Bank/IMO difficulties.
26.   The Grant Agreement required IMO to agree all procurement matters with the
Bank unless an exception was previously agreed with the Bank (and as noted above, no
exceptions were made). IMO found this irksome. The minutes of the negotiations are
ambiguous in this respect, saying that IMO procedures shall be used but that Bank
procedures shall prevail.
27.   The IMO should not have signed the Agreement without fully accepting its terms.
In discussion, IMO commented that it had approached the possibility of a joint project with
the Bank with a great deal of enthusiasm and had signed the Grant Agreement knowing that
there were some unresolved issues, with the implicit assumption that these would be sorted
out later. However these issues, mainly procurement and supervision, continued to give
trouble, with, in the IMO's view, little flexibility being shown on the part of the Bank in its
application of Bank Guidelines.
28.   The IMO wrote to the Bank8 questioning the decision to close the project,
emphasizing the need to complete the work and drawing attention to support for this
position from the countries concerned, including the Technical Steering Committee
meeting held in St. Lucia in November 1997. The letter also drew the Bank's attention to
Sections 2.03 and 5.03 of the Grant Agreement: "The Closing Date shall be January 31,
1998 or such later date as the Trustee shall establish" (2.03) and "This Agreement shall
continue in effect until the GET Grant has been fully disbursed or the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder"(5.03). However, this aspect
was not taken further.
8Letter dated November 26, 1997.



-8-
29.   The IMO has continued to work on the preparation of the technical and legal
documents necessary for the implementation and maintenance of MARPOL 73/78 and
has organized the Forum planned for October 1998, which is in large part the Final
Workshop as envisaged in the Project Document.9 The project has assisted IMO in the
realization of these activities.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   The Project Document identified four monitoring indicators: (a) Actions in
support of proper waste management, (b) Ratification of MARPOL 73/78 Convention, (c)
Adoption of legislation in support of MARF'OL 73/78 Convention, and (d) Dissemination
of Public Awareness Programs, with target numbers of countries for each. In each
category, the target indicator was reached within the project period. There is no doubt
that the project contributed to this satisfactory state of affairs.
31.   The outcome of the project is difficult to assess. The principal achievement of the
project is that there is now an acceptance by the DCWCR countries of the importance of a
strategy for the implementation of MARPOL 73/78. The legal framework as defined by
the project is adequate for the countries to take legislative action. However what is still
lacking is the definition of a regional strategy, which should be based on the work done
by the consultants and subsequent work by IMO. The technical consultants' report
should have been revised in light of the comments of the Bank, IMO and countries. In
addition, the internalization of the procedures necessary for long-term sustainability in the
countries concerned has not been fully achieved and this is where training and a
continuing effort is required. The basic documentation required for such training now
exists but more could have been achieved within the project in these respects.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
32.   The Project Document envisaged possible follow-on work, to would have
consisted of the identification of donors for investments in port reception facilities, waste
management infrastructure and institutional training programs and this will not be
undertaken as envisaged. In its letter advising countries of the termination of the project,
the Bank undertook to engage in further bilateral discussions to "develop projects and
activities that will allow for the achievement of objectives not realized under the WCISW
project". Ongoing projects, in particular the OECS project, contribute to this objective
and Bank participation in the (postponed) IMO Forum will provide another opportunity
to identify the need for a further operation. Other Bankl environmental initiatives in the
Caribbean should also be used to further the objectives of the WCISW project.
9The Forum was postponed on account of Hurricane Georges and is now scheduled for February 1999.



-9-
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The WCISW project had as its prime objective to provide a regional strategy for
the ratification of MARPOL 73/78 by the 22 DCWCR countries, by providing
governments with (i) information on the legal, technical and institutional measures
required and (ii) a forum for reaching a regional consensus on the actions to be taken.
The project was funded through GET Fund Grant Agreement No. TF028653 in the
amount of $ 5.5 million with Bank as Trustee and IMO as recipient and Executing
Agency. The project was closed at its programmed date, with $ 1.7 million undisbursed.
34.   The project has been successful in advancing regional awareness of MARPOL as
well as the ratification of MARPOL 73/78 by the DCWCR countries. The monitoring
indicators of the Project Document have been achieved and the project has made a
significant contribution to the environmental aims of the Cartagena Convention.
However the project did not complete a number of the planned activities, including two
Workshops, training and the Final Report and to that extent did not accomplish what was
envisaged in terms of institution building. A second phase program, as envisaged in the
Project Document, will not take place and the Bank will address the corresponding topics
on subregional or bilateral basis.
35.   Key lessons as learned from the WCISW project are:
(a)   a project involving 22 countries with four languages and two different legal
systems is ambitious and the estimates made in the Project Document of the time
required to reach consensus, especially on the need for new legislation, were not
realistic. IMO had no regional office assigned to the project. A more thorough
preparation with greater country involvement would have contributed to the
timely implementation of the project. In these and other institutional aspects
referred to below, quality at entry impacted negatively on project implementation;
(b)   respective responsibilities for supervision and procurement should have been
better defined and agreed more precisely, prior to project signing, in order to
prevent an unreasonable expenditure of energy on coordination during the
execution of the project. A project with procurement issues should involve the
Bank's procurement advisors both at project definition and during project
execution, even when relatively small sums are involved, in order to achieve a
reasonable flexibility in project execution;
(c)   preparation would have been improved by more intensive involvement of the
Bank's legal and environmental specialists. Similarly, a team approach should be
adopted for project supervision;
(d)  the appointment of an external agency, IMO, as executing agency imposes a
barrier between the Bank and the beneficiary countries. There was in fact no
borrower (recipient) in the normal sense of the term. In these circumstances it is
vitally important during supervision to establish an effective mechanism for feed-



- 10-
back from ithe countries to the Bank, based on the acceptance and implementation
of project results;
(e)   as no suitable institution existed which embraced all countries involved in the
WCISW project, special attention should have been given to the involvement of
suitable subregional organizations. This is especially relevant when there exist
differences between project countries in language, legal traditions and other
aspects that may impact project success.  These aspects should have been
addressed in the Project Document;
(f)   Action Plans were prepared and agreed with the recipient in the course of the
project, though without a significant effect on project implementation. Where, as
in this case, the project represents a new area of work for the Bank (and the first
experience of Bank/IMO cooperation), a formal mid-term review should have
been included in the Project Document;
(g)   the decision to close was based on the Bank's judgement that this was a project
where agreed deadlines (benchmarks) were not achieved and in the face of what
was considered by the Bank to be the inability of IMO to follow agreed
procedures and Action. The decision to close the project on the originally
programmed date did not reflect the wishes of its member countries in the Region
at the time and has caused some delay in the implementation of MARPOL 73/78
in the DCWVCR countries.
(h)   the Bank should continue to support the efforts of IMO and governments to
implement and sustain MARPOL 73/78 in the WCR, using existing and planned
proj ects.
36.   A draft Evaluation Summary of the ICR was sent to beneficiary countries for
review by letter dated May 7, 1999. From the seven responses received (see appendix), it
has been generally agreed that the proposed draft Executive Summary was complete and
constituted a fair post-project evaluation



- l l -
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments.
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3A:    Project Timetable
Table 3B     Withdrawal Application Requests by IMO and Subsequent Bank Releases
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation.
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7A:    Studies Included in Project
Table 7B:    A listing of the reports prepared as part of the WCISW Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing.
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
T'able 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
'Fablc 14:    Schedule of Outputs against Planned Completion Dates.
T'able 15:    Status of IMO Marine Pollution Conventions



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                        El               0E                                  El
Sector Policies                       E                                 El                 0
Financial Objectives                  El               0                  l                E
Institutional Development             El               0E                                  El
Physical Objectives                   E]               El               El                 0
Poverty Reduction                     El               El               El 
Gender Issues                         El               EEl
Other Social Objectives               El               :1 
Environmental Objectives              0                El               E                  E
Public Sector Management              a                0                E                  E
Private Sector Development            El               El               E
Other (specify)                                       1713g  
Regiona co-operation
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
0                 ~~~~~~~El                   El
C. Bank Performance                      Highly
satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                       E]                        E                          El
Preparation Assistance                                         El                         El
Appraisal                              l                       E                          0
Supervision                          EEl                                                  0
D.  Borrower Performance                 Highly
satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                          El                                                   El
Implementation                       :1                        El                         E0
Covenant Compliance                   l                        El                         El
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
El              0                 El 0              0 



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose         Year of approval           Status
Preceeding Operations:    To have ship-               1995         Preliminary studies
N/A                       generated wastes                         have been done and
addressed as part of                     implementation is
Following Operations:     national solid waste                     proceeding following a
OECS Ship-Generated       management projects                      mid-term review.
Waste Management Project
Table 3A: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project                                        1990
Summary)                            l
Preparation (done under ERL study)             1991                      1991
Appraisal                                  October 1993              October 1993
Negotiations                               25 May 1994               25 May 1994
Letter of development policy (if                n/a                       n/a
applicable)                              _
Board presentation                        August 1, 1994            August 1, 1994
Signing of Agreement                      August 1, 1994            August 1, 1994
Effectiveness                            September 1, 1994         September 1, 1994
First payment                          requested September 1,       7 October 1994
1994
Progress reviews                     December 1994, December March 1995, December
1995, December 1996,   1995. April 1996,
December 1997.       December 1996, and May
1997.
Second (and subsequent) payments     See Table 3B.
releases
Project completion                   Field operations originally  31 January 1998 at decision
to terminate 31 August    of the World Bank.
1997 and then proposed for
October 1998.
Grant closing                             31 January 1998      31 January 1998 and all
accounts settled by
May 1998.



- 14 -
Table 3B - Withdrawal Application Requests by IMO and Subsequent Bank Releases
Withdrawal Application          Date of Request            Date of Release
Number and Amount
No. 1 $250,000.00 (Special Account)   1 September 1994            7 October 1994
No. 2 $97,435.46                       20 April 1995                8 June 1995
No. 3 $122,208.97                     11 October 1995           27 November 1995
No. 4 $169,571.95                      10 January 1996           5 February 1996
No. 5 $170,778.96                      6 March 1996                1 April 1996
No. 6 $331,286.38                      27 March 1996               2 April 1996
No. 7 $218,602.10                      29 April 1996               17 May 1996
No. 8 $153,876.25                       9 July 1996               9 August 1996
No. 9  $112,398.25                 7 August 1996, amended         23 August 1996
21 August 1996
No. 10 $152,291.95                    2 December 1996           31 December 1996
No. 11 $83,638.40                     9 December 1996            13 January 1997
No. 12 $163,287.50                    7 February 1997            27 February 1997
No. 13 $62,006.07                     13 F ebruary 1997           13 March 1997
No. 14  $164,846.88                    25 March 1997               17 April 1997
No. 14A $10,279.00                      13 May 1997                19 May 1997
No. 15 $158,323.59                      13 May 1997                9 June 1997
No. 15A $61,003.00                      18 June 1997              19 August 1997
No. 16 $163,287.50                    29 October 1997            4 November 1997
No. 17 $257,529.60                    27 October 1997           20 November 1997
No. 17A $43,860.17                     8 January 1998            4 February 1998
No. 18 $200,625.80                    28 January 1998                See note
No. 19 $15,000.00                     5 February 1998            19 February 1998
No. 20 $573,663.25                     17 March 1998                April 1998
No. 20A $106,281.00                                                April 1998
No. 20B $13,315.38                                                  April 1998
No. 21 $88,269.49                      28 April 1998                May 1998
No. 22 $46,750.94                      28 April 1998                 See note
No. 23 $67,776.92                      28 April 1998                May 1998
No. 23A $2,623.26                                                    See note
No. 24 $4,685.39                       28 April 1998                May 1998
Total $3,815,503.32
Note: these three applications, totalling $250,000 balance the Special Account, deposited at the
start of the project



- 15 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
CY 94    CY 1995    CY 1996    CY 1997           CY 1998      TOTAL
Appraisal       290        2,100        2,300          810          0           5,500
estimate
Actual           79          391         1,309         1,124       913         3,816
Cumulative      27%        20%          38%          53%          69%          69%
as % of
estimate
Date of final  May 18, 998
disbursement



- 16 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in Project Report     Estimated         Actual
1. Actions in support of proper waste management.    Action by 14     Action by 16
courtries        countries
2. Ratification of MARPOL 73/78 Convention*          Ratification by   Ratification by 6
*8 DCWCR were parties to the MARPOL 73/78             6 countries       countries
Convention prior to June 1994.
3. Adoption of legislation in support of MARPOL 73/78  Action by 2     Action by 2
Convention                                             countries        countries
4. Dissemination of Pulblic Awareness Programs        Action by 20     Action by all
countries      22 countries
II. Other indicators (if applicable)                     N/A              N/A
See the studies shown in Table 7A.
Achiievement of Project Monitoring Indicators
Actions Planned! Actual achievement          Comment /
Indicator                                                             Status
1995             1996             1997
Actions in support    4 Countries /  4 Countries /    6 Countries /    Surpassed target
of proper waste    6 Countries      5 Countries      5 Countries     by 2 Countries,
management            _                                             more expected
Ratification of     None /         2 Countries /    4 Countries /    Target met and
MARPOL 73/78       2 Countries         None           4 Countries    more ratifications
Convention*             .                                             anticipated
Adoption of         None             None          2 Countries /    Target met and
legislation in                                      2 Countries    more anticipated
support of
MARPOL 73/78
Convention
Dissemination of    4 Countries /   10 Countries /   6 Countries /    All 22 Countries
Public Awareness      None             None           22 Countries    have participated
Programs    _II _
*8 DCWCR were parties to the MARPOL 73/78 Convention prior to June 1994. The 22
DCWCR recipient coumtries have all made commitments to ratify and implement MARPOL
73/78 including Annex V. At present 14 of the 22 DCWCR have ratified MARPOL, an increase
of 6 since the beginni.ng of the project. The Dominican Republic while passing the required
national legislation in December 1997 has yet to deposit its instrument of accession with the IMO.
This means shortly 21 of the 29 WCR countries will have ratified MARPOL. It is anticipated
within the next 3 years all countries will have acceded to the Convention.



- 17 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



- 18 -
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                at appraisal/redefined      Status              Impact of study
I) Guide to Ports and Private  An inventory of ports and    Completed    Showed most port wastes lacked
Marinas requiring Waste        marinas requiring reception   February   proper management and control
Reception Facilities            facilities                 1996
2) Report on the Adequacy ol    Provides information en the   Completed    WCR waste management systems
existing waste management       adequacy of existing waste   February   lack human and other resources to
systems to handle MARPOL       management systems in the   1996         properly dispose of solid wastes. Led
73/78 waste                     developing countries of the             to another study - Maritime Traffic
WCR                                     Patterns in the Wider Caribbean
Region - Map
3) Report on source reduction   An examination of the      Completed    Demonstrated an integrated approach
recycling and recovery programs   issues and opportunities  February    of source reduction and recycling of
related to minimising      1996         ship and land-generated waste has to
discharges of ship-generated            be considered
wastes through source
reduction and recycling
4) Report on Regional Waste     Develop a generic strategy    Completed    Caused countries to realise they had
Management Strategy including    for country use and provided  December    to do more at the local level to find
technical criteria for waste   technical and economic      1997         correct solutions. Contributed to
reception facilities at ports,  criteria for reception                  increased friction between the WB
harbours and marinas            facilities                              and IMO. Led to other studies -
Guidelines for Environmental Impact
Assessment for the Construction and
Operation of Port Reception
Facilities for Ship-Generated Waste;
An Environmental Guide for Marina
and Boatyards; Code of Conduct for
the Prevention of Pollution from
Small Ships in Marinas and
Anchorages in the Caribbean Region.
5) Report on System deficiencies   Identified the key      Completed    Report distributed to participating
and potential remedial projecits    deficiencies to the physical   January  countries but no follow-up occurred
and programs                    infrastructure and         1998         due to project closure.
institutional arrangements
for getting port reception
facilities in place
6) Report to provide the rationale   An inventory and analysis of Completed    Identified the amount of legislative
for a legal framework to ratify and  existing legislation  November    and regulatory work required in the
implement MARPOL 73/78         regarding the               1997         WCR to bring into effect proper
convention                      implementation of                       enforcement and compliance of
MARPOL 73/78                            MARPOL 73/78
7) Report on current and proposed  An evaluation of current  Completed    Identified the legal and technical
alternatives to enforcing      enforcement efforts and a   December    constraints to enforcement and
MARPOI 73/78 in the WCR.       strategy for improving it   1997         proposes a strategy for the WCR
8) Final Project Report        A summary of the entire    Not           Project terminated and staff released
first phase activities carried   completed    prior to undertaking this report.
out under the WCISW
Project
9) Additional studies/reports   See Table 7B.
included in Project



- 19 -
Table 7B: A listing of the reports prepared as part of the WCISW Project follows:
1. WCISW Report No. 1 Rationale for a Legal Framework to Ratify and Implement MARPOL
73/78.
2. Supplement to WCISW Report No. 1 entitled "Update on Existing Legislation in Countries of
the WCR and their Compatibility with MARPOL 73/78".
3. WCISW Report No. 2 Summary Report - First Legal Workshop, Havana, Cuba, November
1995.
4. WCISW Report No. 3 Guide to Ports and Marinas requiring Waste Reception Facilities.
5. WCISW Report No. 4 Strategy and Action Plan for Source Reduction, Recycling and Recovery
of Ship-Generated Waste.
6. WCISW Report No. 5 Report on the Adequacy of Existing Waste Management Systems to
Handle MARPOL 73/78 Waste.
7. WCISW Report No. 6 Summary Report - First Technical Workshop, Cartagena, Colombia,
March 1996.
8. WCISW Report No. 7 Volume I Regional Waste Management Strategy for Port Reception
Facilities in the Wider Caribbean.
9. WCISW Reports No. 7 Volume II Technical and Economic Guidelines for Port Reception
Facilities in the Wider Caribbean .
10. WCISW Report No. 8 MARPOL 73/78: Enforcement and Compliance in the Wider
Caribbean Region. The title in Spanish is: Cumplimento en la Regi6n del Gran Caribe
11. WCISW Report No. 9 Summary Report - Second Teclnical Workshop, Mexico City, Mexico
September 1997.
12. WCISW Report No. 10 Summary Report - Second Legal Workshop, Tobago, Trinidad and
Tobago, December 1997. A numbering error occurred. No. 10 is correct in Spanish but in
English the report was erroneously assigned No. 11.
13. WCISW Report No. 11 Report on System Limitations and Potential Approaches for
Implementation of WCISW's Regional Waste Management Strategy.
14. WCISW unnumbered report: An Environmental Guide for Marina and Boatyards.
15. Code of Conduct for the Prevention of Pollution from Small Ships in Marinas and Anchorages
in the Caribbean Region. Partially supported by the WCISW Project.
16. Report of the Port Waste Management Workshop. Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, July
1996. Partially supported by the WCISW Project.



-20 -
Table 7B: A listing of the reports prepared as part of the WCISW Project follows (Contd...)
17. WCISW unnumbered report: Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment for the
Construction and Operation of Port Reception Facilities for Ship-Generated Waste.
18. Final Report - Forum '96 First Conference of the Prevention of Pollution from Small Ships in
Marinas and Anchorages in the Caribbean Region.
19. WCISW unnumbered report: Vessel Movements in the Wider Caribbean Region
20. The Performance Review Report of the Wider Caribbean Initiative on Ship-generated Waste
(WCISW) Project - Analysis conducted in September 1996.
21. WCISW Public Awareness Campaign Implementation Kit - brochures, leaflets, video, public
service TV and radio anmouncements.
22. Seminario nacional sobre prevencion de contamination marina por los buques (MARPOL
73/78), Honduras, January 1996. Partially supported by the WCISW Project.
23. Seminario nacional sobre prevencion de contamination marina por los buques (MARPOL
73/78), Guatemala, March 1996. Partially supported by the WCISW Project.
24. Seminario nacional sobre prevencion de contamination marina por los buques (MARPOL
73/78), Dominican Republic, October 1996. Partially supported by the WCISW Project.
25. Seminario nacional sobre el cumplimiento a las exigencias del MARPOL 73/78 por la flota de
la industria petrolera de Venezuela, January 1997. Partially supported by the WCISW Project.
26. Manual "MARPOL - How to Enforce It". Partially supported by the WCISW Project.



- 21 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item         Appraisal Estimates (US$'000s)          Actuals (US$'000s)
Local      Foreign     Total     Local        Foreign     Total
I Tech'I Assistance    2,450    1,503      3,953     1,669.0      1,154.8    2,823.8
(cost of PCU)       (130)        (45)      (175 )   (168.9)        (29.3)    (198.2)
2 Administration                 357        357        Nil         258.0       258.0
and Supervision
3 Workshops          50          400        450       277.6        208.0       485.6
4 Public                         250        250       107.2        140.9       248.1
Awareness
Programn
5 Contingency and                490        490        Nil         1,684.5    1,684.5
Unallocated
TOTAL               2,500        3,000      5,500    2,053.8       3,446.2    5,500.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source      Appraisal Estimates (USS'000s)            Actuals (US$'000s)
Local      Foreign     Total    Local        Foreign        Total
GEF             2,500        3,000      5,500    2,053.8      1,761.7      3,815.5
Cofinancing
institutions
Other external            Contributions to project objectives were made by the
sources                   following assisting countries - USA, Canada, Sweden,
Spain, Mexico and Trinidad.
Domestic
contribution
TOTAL           2,500        3,000      5,500    2,053.8      1,761.7      3,815.5



- 22 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No estimate of benefits has been made for this project.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
There were no specific Legal Covenants. Articles III and IV of the grant Agreement, Execution
of the Project and Financial Covenants, were complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Incompatibilities between the MIS of the Bank and of the GEF have prevented an estimate
being made of Staff Inputs.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
See comment on previous table.



- 23 -
Table 14: Schedule of Outputs against Planned Completion Dates
All costs based on Withdrawal Application No. 24 Summary Details - 30 April 1998.
Responsibility           Activity               Date         Date       Comments/   Estimated       Final
Planned *   Implemented     Status     Completion     Cost
Date       (US$)
A              a- Guide to Ports and Private  9 months    15 months    6 month       February      327,600
Technical      Marinas requiring Waste                                 slippage      1996
Consultant     Reception Facilities
b- Report on the Adequacy of    9 months    15 month    6 month      February       80,100
existing waste management                               slippage      1996
systems to handle MARPOL
73/78 waste
c- Report on source reduction    9 months    15 months    6 month    February       42,000
recycling and recovery                                  slippage      1996
programs
d- First Technical Workshop   12 months   17 months    5 month       March 1996    106,000
Cartagena, Colombia                                     slippage
e- Report on Regional Waste    21 months   36 months    15 month     December       472,100
Management Strategy including                           slippage      1997
technical criteria for waste
reception facilities at ports
harbours and marinas
f- Second Technical Workshop   24 months   37 months    13 month     September      97,700
Mexico City, Mexico                                     slippage      1997
g- Report on System           26 months   31 months    5 month       January        54,300
deficiencies and potential                              slippage      1998
remedial projects and
programs
h- Third Technical Workshop    30 months   Yet to be    Planned at   January       No funds
held         41 months    1998          expended
(11 month
. ____________    slippage)
i- Public awareness program   24 months   34 months    10 month      September    248,100
using multimedia (TV, radio                             slippage      1997
etc.) in support of MARPOL
73/78 Convention
Technical Training **                                                May 1998    Funds
not
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   av ailab le
*  Date of effectiveness was 1 August 1994 thus the elapsed times are as follows: 1 January 1995 is
5 months; 1 January 1996 is 17 months; 1 January 1997 is 29 months; and 1 January 1998 is 41
months.
* * Plan for training activities were to be finalised following the workshops.



- 24 -
Table 14: Schedule of Outputs against Planned Completion Dates (Contd...)
Responsibility            Activity                Date         Date       Comments/    Estimated       Final
Planned *   Implemented      Status     Completion     Cost
Date       (US$)
B              a- Report to provide the rationale  9 months    10 months    Partial Report  November   1,665,000
Legal          for a legal framework to ratify                           by 13 months,  1997
Consultant     and implement MARPOL 73/78                                30 month
convention                                               slippage
b- First Legal Workshop        12 months   15 months    3 month         November       96,600
Havana, Cuba                                             slippage       1995
c- Report on current and       21 months   36 months    15 month        December    23 1,000
proposed                                                 slippage       1997
alternatives to enforcing
MARPOL 73/78 in the WCR
d- Second Legal Workshop       24 months   40 months    16 month        December    100,400
Tobago, Trinidad and Tobago                               slippage      1997
Legal training**                                                        May 1998    Funds not
available
C              a- Progress reports             every 3                   13 reports
Project                                        months                    submitted to
Coordinator                                                              January 1998
b- WCISW Final Report          33 months   not prepared  Planned at 43   Not being
as project    months (10    prepared
terminated    month
prematurely  slippage)
c- Final Workshop              36 months   will not       Planned at 48
occur        months
d- Chairman's report           38 months   no longer     Planned at 51
required     months
e- Project Completion Report                August 1997  Planned at 52  April 1998
months
Responsibility         Activity             Date          Date      Comments/   Estimated        Estimated
Planned *   Implemented     Status    Completion         cost
Date
D              a- Cost of Activities                                                              2,762,700
IMO              (excluding training)
Refer to back-up sheets for details.
b- Estimated available for                                                        1,434,500
(training) unallocated                                                         Not utilised
c- Administrative costs                                                           1,302,800
(budgeted)
TOTAL COST                                                                        5,500,000
* Date of effectiveness was 1 August 1994 thus the elapsed time at 1 January 1998 is 41 months.
** Plan for training activities were to be finalised -following the workshops.
*** Includes cost for administration, long term consultants, steering committees, PCU and
logistics.



-25 -
Back-up sheet to explain the projected costs, timetable and other factors affecting the project -
based on Withdrawal Application No. 24 Summary Details - 30 April 1998.
A.    The status of the above items for the Technical Consultant work activities as of 31 January
1998, the project closing date, based upon inforrnation available at the end of April 1998 is as
follows:
TC items a, b, c, and d -    The final costs for items a, b and c reflect the agreement to include
costs of international consultants who were involved in the First
Technical Workshop. For item d the costs reflect the agreement to
exclude costs of international consultants who were involved in the
First Technical Workshop.
TC items e, f, g, h and i are the final costs recorded for the project.
B.    The status of the above items for the Legal Consultant work activities is as follows:
LC a - The final cost of $166.5K represents all expenditures on this item including the costs of all
work on the inventories carried out in 1997.
LC b - The final cost reflects the agreement to exclude costs of international consultants who were
involved in the First Technical Workshop.
LC c - This cost includes all work on the inventories since 1996 and the enforcement report.
LC d- This is the final cost for this item.
C.    The status of the above items for the Project Coordinator work activities is as follows:
PC a - The quarterly reports costs are included in the administrative costs given below.
PC b - The final report is not being prepared as project staff were all released on 31 January 1998.
PC c - This workshop will not take place.
D.    The status of the above items for the IMO activities is as follows:
IMO a -      The Cost of Activities is the summary of the costs associated with items TC, LC and
PC above and does not include any of the costs for the training or administrative costs
which follow. Please note that as items were finalized, the commitments were
adjusted so that all variances went into (training) unallocated.
IMO b-       The cost shown represents the unexpended balance of funds in the project budget.
IMO c -      As noted in the footnote at the bottom of the table, this administrative cost includes
the costs for long term consultants (628.1), steering committees (69.5), PCU (198.2)
and logistics (149.0) and IMO overhead (258.0) to closure of the project.



- 26 -
Table 15: Status of IMO Marine Pollution Conventions
Status of pollution instrument ratification for the Wider Caribbean at 4 September 1998.
|   MARPOL 73/78                                                     CARTAGENA
IOPC      CONV'N &          OR
COUNTRY                                     LC             CLC               FUND    OIL  S              OPRC
PROTOCOL
_&II  III  IV   V   72    69          76    - 92    71       92                        90
_ _ _PROT   PROT              PROT
ANTIGUA AND          x     x    x   x   x       x        x              x                    x
BARBUDA**
BAHAMAS*"                    x     x         x           d       x        x      d      x
BARBADOS*                    x     x         x   x       x       x        x     x       x            x
BELIZE"*                                        x        x~ 
COLOMBIA**           x     x    x   x           x        x              x                    x
COSTA RICA**         +               +   x      x        x                                   x
CUBA**               x               +   x                                                   x
DOMINICA**           +               +                                                       x
DOMINICAN           x               .       x  , x _
REPUBLIC**
FRANCE**                     x     x    x   x   x        d       x        x     d       x             x           x
1'rencih Guyana         a    a    a   a   a        a1       a        a    a        a            a            a
Guadeloupe            a    a    a   a   a         a       a         a    a        a            a            a
lartinique            a    a    a   a   a        a        a        a     a       a            a            a
St. Bartlhclemerrv     il    a    a   a   a        a        a        a     a       a            a            a
Nsta,I rrtin         a     a    a   a   a        a       a         a     a       a            a            a
GRENADA              +               +                            x             x
GUATEMALA*"*   ,*    s           *  x*  x                                                    x
GUYANA**            x      x*   xx x*           x   _                                                     x
HAITI**             +                +   x
HONDURAS**          +                +   x
JAMAICA**            N     x    x   x   x    _                           x            x
MEXICO**            x                     x     ci       x        x     d       x            x            x
NETHERLANDS**                x     x         x   x       cd      x        x     d       x            x            x
Aruba               s    s          s   s                                                             _
NETHERLANDS
ANTILLES                   _ _____
Bonaire              s    s          s   s                                                   s
Curacao              s    s          s   s                                                   s



- 27 -
Table 15: Status of IMO Marine Pollution Conventions (Contd...)
MARPOL 73/78                                       CARTAGENA
COUNTRY                            LC          CLC           IOPC    CONV'N &      OPRC
ANNEX                                  FUND    OIL SPILL
PROTOCOL
I & f  fIt IV  V  72  69    76    92   71  929
PROT  PROT        PROT
Saba           s    s        s   s                                       s
St. Eustasius     s    s       s   s                                       s
St. Maarten       s    s       s   s                                       s
a: ratification automatically extends to French Departments & U.S. territories.
d: denunciation
s: separate action necessary to have ratification extended to each of the British dependent
territories, and separate ratification action necessary by the self-governing territories of
Aruba & the Netherlands Antilles.
*: ratified since the project was approved in June 1994.
+: indicates a likelihood of ratification by end of 2000.
DCWCR States
**: IMO Member States
Excepting the IMO and Cartagena Conventions and Oil Spill Protocol, percentages for the Wider
Caribbean shown in this table factor in the 33 states and territories in the Region requiring
separate international pollution instrument ratification action - 28 states in the UN system,
adjusted to 33 to account for separate action required as regards Aruba, the Netherlands Antilles
and the 5 British dependent territories. "Global Maritime" comprises the 156 countries
worldwide that have ratified at least one IMO instrument



Table 15: Status of IMO Marine Pollution Conventions (Contd...)
MARPOL 73/78                                              CARTAG ENA
COUNTRY                                  LC           CLC             FUND      CONV'N &        OPRC
ANNEX                                        FUND      OIL SPILL
PROTOCOL
I& it  III  IV   V    72   69    76       92    71    92                       90
PROT  PROT          PROT
NICARAGUA**        +               _          x      x
PANAMA**           x     N   N   x    x    x                =
STF KITTS AND    iZ. k   X*  x*  x*1,         N x
NEVIS           |___-
STLUCIA**                          +    x                                             x
ST VINCEN'I'       x     x   x                x
AND GRENADINES**
SURINAME*          x     x   x    x    x
TRINIDAD AND       +                          _
TOBAGO* *
UNITED KINGDOM**           x     x   N           x    d      x       x     dI                x           x
Anguilla                                      s      s             s
British Virgin Islands                        s    s      s             s                 s
Cavman Islandls       s    s          s    s    s      s              s                 s
Alontserrat                              s    s      s       s      s     s
7Tr-ksv acnd( Caicos Islands                   s    s      s             s                  s
UNITED STAT'FS 01         x     x         x    x                                            x           x
AMERICA*"*
Puerto Rico         a     a         a    a                                            a           a
UtS. irgin Islands     a        .           a                                            a           a
VENEZUELA**        X! -                       N x            N       x               N X
a: ratification automatically extends to French Departments & U.S. territories.
d: denunciation
s:  separate action necessary to have ratification extended to each of the British dependent
territories, and separate ratification action necessary by the self-governing territories of
Aruba & the Netherlands Antilles.
*: ratified since the project was approved in June 1994.
+: indicates a likelihood of ratification by the en.d of 2000.
0: DCWCR States
**: IMO Member States



- 29 -
Excepting the IMO and Cartagena Conventions and Oil Spill Protocol, percentages for the Wider
Caribbean shown in this table factor in the 33 states and territories in the Region requiring
separate international pollution instrument ratification action - 28 states in the UN system,
adjusted to 33 to account for separate action required as regards
Aruba, the Netherlands Antilles and the 5 British dependent territories. "Global Maritime"
comprises the 156 countries worldwide that have ratified at least one IMO instrument.
Conventions under Consideration
MARPOL 73/78 -           Protocol of 1978 relating to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as amended
LC 1992        -         London Convention
CLC 1969/1976  -         International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution
Damage, 1969/1976
CLC 1992 PROT -          Protocol of 1992 to amend the International Convention on Civil
Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969
IOPC FUND 1971           International Convention on the Establishment of an International
Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, 1971
IOPC FUND PROT '92       Protocol of 1992 to amend the International Convention on the
Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil
Pollution Damage, 1971
OPRC 1990      -         International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response
and Co-operation, 1990



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES OF THE WIDER CARIBBEAN REGION
(Antigua & Barbuda; Belize; Colombia; Costa Rica; Cuba; Dominica; Dominican Republic;
Grenada; Guatemala; Guyana; Haiti; Honduras; Jamaica; Mexico; Nicaragua; Panama; St.Kitts
& Nevis; St.Lucia; St.Vincent & the Grenadines; Suriname; Trinidad & Tobago; Venezuela.)
THE WIDER CARIBBEAN INITIATIVE ON
SHIP-GENERATED WASTE (WCISW) PROJECT
(GET GRANT NUMBER TF02863)
APPENDIX



Appendix A
Grant Recipient contribution to the ICR
The Wider Caribbean Initiative on Ship-generated Waste (WCISW) Project
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement
GET Grant Number TF028653 dated 1 August 1994
Introduction
I     'The Project was developed by IMO as a response to the request from the WCR to be declared
a Special Area under Annex V, submitted by a Regional Workshop in Caracas, 1990. IMO's Marine
Environment Protection Committee decided the Wider Caribbean should be designated a Special
Area under MARPOL, Annex V as from 4 April 1994 (Resolution MEPC 48/3 1). The relevant prior
Bank involvement in the sector and region is based upon three initiatives, namely the funding of a
study carried out by Elnvironmental Resources 'Limited for the International Maritime Organization
and the World Bank in 1991 to produce the report "Port Reception and Disposal Facilities for
Garbage in the Wider Caribbean" which represented a starting point for national officials for
determining the actions they might take, the sponsoring in October 1993 by the  International
Maritime Organizatio:n and the World Bank of the first Workshop on the Wider Caribbean Initiative
for Ship-Generated Waste which formed the basis for the World Bank developed and Global
Environment Facility funded WCISW Project and management of the GEF funded Organisation of
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) Ship-Generated Waste Management Project whereby the problems
of ship-generated waste are addressed as a component of national solid waste management projects.
The WCISW project was the Bank's first experience with an international waters project benefiting a
large number of countries. This project was the Bank's first experience with an international waters
project benefiting a large number of countries.
Project Implementation Arrangement
2     IMO's Marine Environment Division had overall responsibility for the management of the
project under the direction of its Technical Co-operation Sub-programme. With a strong regional
focus in mind, IMO established the WCISW Project Co-ordinating Unit (PCU) in Trinidad and
Tobago to facilitate the execution of the project. The PCU was staffed by a full time Project Co-
ordinator with on-site administrative support. In addition to the operational management of the
project, the Project Co-ordinator was responsible for maintaining an ongoing dialogue with National
Focal Points (NFPs) designated by each of the Governments of the region.
3     Recognizing the distinctive technical and legal aspects of the project, a full time Technical
Consultant and Legal Consultant were also engaged to organize necessary project activities within
their respective areas of expertise, under the leadership of the Project Co-ordinator.
4     To provide regular regional input to the project direction a small technical steering committee
consisting of the Project Co-ordinator, Technical Consultant and five or six high level representatives
from regional governments was established. This steering committee ensured project progress
through the development and co-ordination incremental Action Programmes and other initiatives. A
small legal steering committee was also established with the type of composition and purpose,



targeting legal aspects of the project. The Technical Steering Committee met 6 times and the Legal
steering Committee 3 times during the project.
5     Project outputs were reviewed and validated at the regional level through a series of regional
technical and legal workshops convened periodically throughout the life of the WCISW. Through
these workshops regional governments were formally informed of project progress and invited to
provide relevant national inputs in a concerted effort to achieve the ultimate regional strategies
envisaged. The legal component issues addressed in the project were reviewed at the First Legal
Workshop in November 1995 in Havana, Cuba and the final examination of legal items was covered
in the Second Legal Workshop in Scarborough, Tobago in December 1997.  The technical
component issues of the project were reviewed at the First Technical Workshop in March 1996 in
Cartagena, Colombia and the final examination of technical items was covered in the Second
Technical Workshop in Mexico City, Mexico in September 1997.  While the studies and
documentation for the Third Technical Workshop was prepared for presentation tentatively
scheduled for Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic in February 1998, it was cancelled due to the
closure of the project.
WCISW Project Strategies and Objectives
6     The WCISW was conceived as the first phase in the long term process of cleaning up and
protecting the seas of the Wider Caribbean Region. The objective of this first phase was to provide
the basis for ratification and implementation of MARPOL 73/78 by the developing countries of the
WCR. Assuming success in this regard, the countries are expected to then build upon the WCISW
project outputs to move toward a second phase programme of investment projects, supported by the
international donor community and financial institutions, to expand port reception facilities, waste
management infrastructure and institutional training programmes to ensure full implementation and
enforcement of the Convention.
7     Over the three and one half year period (September 1994 - January 1998), the Project
provided the developing countries of the WCR with technical assistance to carry out studies and
support the co-ordination of activities with the aim of producing a regional strategy to promote and
realize the widest possible ratification and implementation of MARPOL 73/78. The strategy
included a regional legal framework, regional waste management programmes, regional public
awareness programmes, training and the identification of national projects for reception and disposal
facilities.
8     While the WCISW was directed toward assisting the developing countries of the region, it
recognized the integral role to be played by the developed countries with regard to the agreement of
viable regional strategies.  Therefore, the developed countries (Bahamas, Barbados, and the
metropolitan and insular governments of France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the
United States) were invited to participate in all project activities.
Project Activities
9     The WCISW financed consultant services, regional workshops and logistical support to:
a) assess within the region existing legislation and regulations covering Annex I, II and V
wastes;
-this aspect of the work was fully addressed as part of the work carried out by
the Legal Consultant and the results are contained in the Supplement to
WCISW Report No.1 Rationale for a Legal Framework to Ratify and
Implement MARPOL 73/78 entitled "Update on Existing Legislation in



Countries of the WCR and their Compatibility with MARPOL 73/78".
b) identify legal remedies available under international agreements or appropriate
alterative strategies for promoting compliance with the Special Area designation of the
WCR;
-this work was fully addressed and the results are contained in the WCISW
Report No. 8 Enforcement and Compliance in the Wider Caribbean Region.
c) assess existing waste management systems in the region, including institutional
arrangements;
-this aspect of the work was fully addressed as part of the work carried out by
the Technical Consultant and the results are contained in the WCISW Report
No. 5 Report on the Adequacy of Existing Waste Management Systems to
Handle MARPOL 73/78 Waste.
d) formulate regional engineering criteria for waste reception facilities at ports;
-this work was fully addressed and the results are contained in the WCISW
Reports No. 3 Guide to Ports and Marinas requiring Waste Reception
Facilities and No. 7 Volume 11 Technical and Economic Guidelines for Port
Reception Facilities in the Wider Caribbean .
e) co-ordinate discussions with shipping and cruise lines on reducing waste at the source
and recycling of Annex 1, 11 and V wastes;
-this work was fully addressed and the results are contained in the WCISW
Report No. 4 Strategy and Action Plan for Source Reduction, Recycling and
Recovery of Ship-Genera,ted Waste.
t) develop integrated regional wastz management alternatives, including identification
and evaluation of specific proposals;
-this work was fully addressed and the results are contained in the WCISW
Report No. 7 Regional Waste Management Strategy for Port Reception
Facilities in the Wider Caribbean and WCISW Report No. 11 Report on
System Limitations and Potential Approaches for Implementation of
WCISW's Regional Waste Management Strategy.
g) develop strategies for the integration of collection, treatment and disposal of ship-
generated wastes with associated existing national collection, treatment and disposal
systems;
-this work was fully addressed and the results are contained in several of the
WCISW Reports, see No.s 4, 7 and 11.
h) assist ports in defining the appropriate tariffs for receiving ship-generated wastes,
including cost recovery for waste management systems;
-this work was addressed and the results are contained in the WCISW Report
No. 7 and I1.
i) develop proposals to ensure that countries achieve full cost recovery of the collection,
treatment and disposal costs associated with the reception of Annex 1, II and V wastes;
-this work was addressed and the results are contained in the WCISW Report
No. 11.
j) assist countries in implementing new waste management alternatives, including the



-4 -
training of local personnel;
-this work was not fully addressed as the project terminated prior to training
being undertaken.
k) develop strategies for public awareness programmes to support the project on a
national as well as regional basis;
-this aspect of the work was fully addressed as part of the work carried out by
the Public Awareness Campaign contract and the results are contained in the
materials produced which included an implementation kit for use by national
entities.
1) brief potential donors, financing institutions and NGOs on the status of MARPOL
73/78 in the region; and
-this work was not addressed as the project terminated prior to the Final
Workshop being undertaken.
m) based on the foregoing, developed a comprehensive strategy for dealing with Annex I,
II and V ship-generated wastes in the region, including viable investment proposals that
could be supported by regional governments and the international donor community.
-this work was fully addressed by the Technical Consultant assisted by
several consultants and the results are contained in the WCISW Reports No. 7
Regional Waste Management Strategy for Port Reception Facilities in the
Wider Caribbean and No. 11 Report on System Limitations and Potential
Approaches for Implementation of WCISW's Regional Waste Management
Strategy.
10       Project activities were carried out by consultants engaged by IMO ( over 70 consultants
were used with most of them coming from DCWCR countries) and supervised by both IMO and the
World Bank. Consultants worked closely with national and regional organisations, and a special
effort was made to involve all the targeted countries in the process. A key part of the use of local
consultants was to assist in developing the national capabilities of the countries and their national
maritime administrations.
Implementation Experience and Results
11       The 22 DCWCR recipient countries have all made commitments to ratify and implement
MARPOL 73/78 including Annex V. This commitment was not a solid one when the project
commenced. It has occurred as a direct result of the efforts of project staff at various meetings held
at the national, sub-regional and regional levels and took almost three years to be realised. At present
14 of the 22 DCWCR have ratified MARPOL, an increase of 6 since the beginning of the project.
The Dominican Republic while passing the required national legislation in December 1997 has yet to
deposit its instrument of accession with the IMO. This means shortly, 21 of the 29 WCR countries
will have ratified MARPOL. It is anticipated within the next 3 years all countries will have acceded
to the Convention.
12       This acceptance of MARPOL 73/78 by the WCR countries will require continued support
from IMO, donor countries and financial lending agencies for training to effect proper
implementation and operation of the needed facilities. Therefore the probability that the project will
maintain the achievements generated in relation to its major objectives is very likely. IMO through
its regular program activities and its Integrated Technical Co-operation Programme and regional
operations is committed to supporting these countries in achieving MARPOL Annex V Special Area
status. While maritime issues are not the highest legislative or political priority in most of the
countries, the project has brought the importance of protecting the marine environment and



MARPOL 73/78 to the attention of a wide range of decision makers in different governmental
agencies.
13        The DCWCR and other WCR participants are now all sensitive to the issues of ship-
generated waste and marine pollution concerns to want to realise and sustain the project objectives.
Considerable progress has been achieved in under four years to create and enhance the maritime
pollution prevention policy environment and upgrade institutional/management effectiveness. With
additional training of national governmental and private sector maritime and waste management
staff, the work initiated by this project will remain viable. The legal, technical and public awareness
activities undertaken have contributed to achieving good local participation. Sustainability will
definitely be positively affected by a second phase follow-on project that funds the construction of
the required reception facilities to further expand the activities in the project under review.
14        There were five key factors which affected the achievement of the objectives. The first
was the overly ambitious timetable for mobilising the project and the unclear expectations of the
participants. The task consisted of getting 22 countries of four language groups of very different size
to focus on a commron issue. The project team did a very commendable job of achieving this but it
took nearly a year longer than originally ant:icipated. However there definitely seemed to be an
absence of a feeling; of 'ownership' of many of the countries involved in the project. A complication
was the insistence of the Bank on always having to deliver the work at the regional or sub-regional
level rather than working directly with the individual countries. Also the absence of 'pilot' or
'demonstration' projects prevented obtaining earlier involvement of many countries as they were not
clear on what was really required of them and what could be achieved fairly readily.
15        The recruitment of project staff and consultants resulted in many excellent people being
brought together to work on this project. However the PCUJ staff had one member who had serious
weaknesses which were not apparent until most of the first year had passed. This personnel problem
adversely affected the delivery of the legal component by delaying the project.
16        The third factor which affected the project delivery was the administrative arrangements
stipulated in the Grant Agreement. A misunderstanding of whose procurement procedures were to be
used and how the various stages of procurement were to be accepted resulted in bad feelings amongst
the parties and  this led to considerable delays. When the administration of the work activities
differed from perceived correct procedures and precise guidance did not exist in the Grant
Agreement then the resolution of issues and agreement on solutions proved difficult.
1 7       A fourth factor which has been an issue throughout the project has been the manner in
which the Bank has operated as trustee. The executing agency has always found the Bank to be
overly interested in the day to day project activities rather than monitoring the project process and
milestones.  IMO has regularly executed technical cooperation projects for UNDP and donor
countries and never experienced the difficulties encountered on this project. This breakdown in role
responsibilities was a constant irritant for the executing agency. The Bank for its part had the
challenge of getting to know and work with a new entity.
1 8       The fifth and most significant reason for all of the objectives not being met was the
termination of the project on the close date established in 1994 in spite of numerous requests from
the DCWCR recipients to keep it going. This decision has been a difficult one to comprehend,
especially as there were funds remaining to complete the project and the logical end point was only a
few months away.
19        The recipient countries were very pleased with the project concept and objectives
developed by the World Bank and entrustecl to IMO for execution as verified by the responses



- 6 -
received and documented in "The Performance Review Report of the Wider Caribbean Initiative on
Ship-Generated Waste (WCISW) Project", an analysis conducted in September 1996.  This
satisfaction was strongly restated by many of the recipient countries in late 1997 and early 1998
when they wrote to the Secretary-General of IMO requesting the project be extended in order to
complete the outstanding training and national project proposals. Also many of the DCWCR
countries in their letters stated how satisfied they were with the manner in which the project was
being delivered and proving so useful and important to them. They have indicated the ratification
and implementation of MARPOL 73/78 involve complex and lengthy legislative processes, and
significant upgrade and development in the administrative and technical capacity of States. Based on
the jurisprudence, parliamentary structure and state of administrations of the developing countries of
the WCR, it has been difficult to realize the objectives within the three year time frame. However, it
is clear that there has been considerable progress among States both in terms of the preparation of
legislative procedures for implementing MARPOL 73/78, and in the precise definition of the
technical and infrastructure requirements to be instituted to implement the Convention.  There are
several areas that will require the continued support, namely the training of personnel in ship
inspection and surveying for the enforcement of the Convention, upgrading of legal personnel in
enforcement proceedings, and technical staff in investigation procedures, evidence testing, and
environmental monitoring.
20        As indicated above, this project was the Bank's first one dealing with international waters
and IMO. It can be said that the approach and attitude of the two organisations to client countries is
very different. This could be part of the reason for the operational difficulties which developed
between the two organisations. There is no doubt the strained working relations led to closure of the
project in advance of all tasks being finalised.
21        The ICR assesses the project's outcome as satisfactory. The project overall achieved
most of its major objectives, all expected project performance indicators, and has achieved or is
expected to achieve satisfactory development results with only a few short-comings. For several
countries it can be said the project was highly satisfactory as the project achieved or exceeded all its
major objectives and has achieved or is highly likely to achieve substantial development results,
without major shortcomings. However it is also possible to say the project was unsatisfactory as it
has had significant shortcomings in the way the in which the Bank and the grant recipient failed to
arrive at a professional working relationship in which each other's respective roles and
responsibilities were understood, respected and perforned. This was the major reason for the Bank
insisting on the project terminating on the closing date rather than a few months later. However the
grant recipient was never apprised of the reason for the closure of the project just a few months prior
to realising virtually all of the project objectives other than being informed "that the Bank is taking a
very rigorous position concerning project extensions and a decision has been made that this project
will not be extended beyond the legal completion date". This unfortunate situation has adversely
affected the recipient countries by delaying the full realisation of all of the project objectives for
them by many months when only a few months (6 to 8) were needed to complete the work of this
project involving training of national staff and preparing costed national project proposals for the
required Annex V infrastructure for review and discussion with multi- and bilateral funding agencies.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
22        This project has provided the countries of the Wider Caribbean Region with an excellent
appreciation of the marine pollution issues and the support they can gain through the implementation
of the MARPOL 73/78 Convention.  Legal assistance has been made available through the
development of model legislation in both English and Spanish. For the first time countries have an
understanding of the total maritime traffic by types and the volumes of wastes these vessels can
generate. They are also aware of the types of waste reception facilities that are necessary for



- 7 -
handling various quantities of waste and have an overall strategy available to analyze and determine
solutions to suit their national needs. All countries have gained the basic tools for carrying out a
public awareness campaign to sensitise various sectors within their countries to the importance of
proper marine environment practises.  The successes achieved have not come easily and the
following
items could prove important for contributing to the positive delivery of future initiatives.
23        The most critical element for a project of this type is the identification of the correct
people in four areas, namely 1) the trustee administrator - World Bank Task Manager, 2) the
executing agency - IMO, 3) the IMO Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU) staff composed of the
Project Co-ordinator and Legal and Technical Consultants, and 4) influential and committed National
Focal Points. These people have to come together to reach common understandings of their
respective roles and responsibilities and develop a rapport and trust for achieving the project goals.
Good communications are a prerequisite and at times in this project these were poorly established or
failed.
24        Other irnportant findings include: a) the need for flexibility to permit those items having
the potential to reap early benefits to be used to sustain input from participants, this flexibility may
justify the use of demonstration projects; b) the need for bilingual PCU staff to work with all of the
countries; c) the need for periodic senior governmental (ministerial) review to ensure national
concurrence with the project's objectives and commitment is sustained; and the need to refocus and
re-phase project activity (funds) to benefit from experience and perceived need of participating
countries. The executing agency must be able to use its best judgement/expertise in re-phasing
project funds for "demonstration sites" and more direct national assistance. Capacity building is best
achieved at the national level, and the regional approach should not prevent delivery of national
capacity building within the regional context.
25        As the project has been brought to closure in an untimely way, the World Bank has stated
that as "all the countries benefiting from the WCISW project are members of the Bank it may
incorporate some aspects of the remaining WCISW activities in future projects". IMO intends to
have a meeting of all WCISW project participants in late 1998 to discuss the final technical report
findings so that steps can be taken to ensure all WCR governments move towards ratification of
MARPOL 73/78 and undertake to deal with ship-generated wastes. The issue of sustainability has
been discussed above.
26        An important consideration for undertaking projects of a regional nature of this type
having a common goal of acceding to the same international convention and meeting the same
implementation requirements is that the regional grouping of countries has to respect common
language, in this instance (Spanish and English predominate), stage of development relative to the
project objectives, in this project the Latin American countries were further advanced at the outset
than the others and the relative size of the countries involved, here we dealt with countries differing
in population by a factor of 1000 which seriously affected the approaches to be followed.
27        The various organisation, agencies, and national government departments need to address
the results of this project and the reasons for them. This report has highllighted a number of the
reasons for the goocl results achieved and importantly has indicated areas where improvements could
be made. As future work in this field will make it necessary for all parties to be involved together
again, it is important to build on the good points and address those where improvements can be
made.



Appendix B
Feedback from beneficiary countries
The Wider Caribbean Initiative on Ship-generated Waste (WCISW) Project
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement
GET Grant Number TF028653 dated 1 August 1994
(Colombia; Costa Rica; Grenada; Guatemala; Jamaica; St.Lucia; St.Vincent & the Grenadines)



FUjrNA99  01:43PM WB/LP3C2         PHONE NO. : 2226                3)H. 0Z2 IE?<:20R
MINISTERIO DE DEFENSA N4ACJONAL
ArMADA NACIONAL
DIRECCION GENERAL MARITIMA
Santafe de Bogota D.C., 31 de mayo de 1999
No. 31171 1 R    DIMAR-OlLEM-OFASI-536
ASUNTO           Comentarios Informe Final Implementacion WCISW
AL               Seficra
Orsalia Kaian=opoullos
Unidad de Manejo pars Latinoamerica y el Caribe
Banco Mundial
Washington D. C., U.S.A.
Aprecada Seniora Kaiar=opculos:
En respuesta a su mensaje Nc. 362 del 07 de mayo de 1999, el cual Irata sobre la
enc;.iesta realizada a os punos focales de Ics paises beneficiarios del Proyeao
lnijcatva del Gran Oaribe para el Mar,q   de Desecnos producidos par Buques
(WCISW). [a Direcc'n General Maritima( en trabafo conjunto con las autoridades
de transporte, porttaras y ambientales nacionales, elabor6 la siguiente
respuesta, al cuestoriano formulado.
1.    . Basado en su experiencia de la Implementacion del Proysc'o WCISW, el
resumen del infcrm,e final de Implernentacian (ICR) provee una evafuacion
justa y cornpleta del Proyecto?
Respuesta
El informe f7nal de Implementaci6n (ICR) no presenta una evatuaci6n conmpleta del
proyecto WCISW. Las opiniones expresadas en el anexo a su Fax ( literales v al
xi) se basan principalmente en las dificultades procedimentales que existieron
entre la Organizacidn Marftima lntemacional (OMI) y.el Banco Mundial. Esas
dificultades afectaron los resultados 6ptimos planeados pero no afteraron
resultados espec;ficos obtanidos y no inctuidos en el (ICR), tales como-



JUN 23 '99  01: 43PM WB/Lq3C2   pR>C- NO.   2222036              * 0. 02I
F.ROM :,DIMAR
a)    Par-a a Re2idn de( Gran Caibe: Un (1) nuevo pais miembro de la OMI, seis
(6) nuevas adhesiones al Convenio MARPOL 73178, una (1) nueva
aceptacion del Anexo V del Convenio, MARPOL, dos (2) regfamentaciones
nacionales aprobadas del Convenic MARPOL. producc6in de un (1)
manual de cumplimiento para instafaciones portuanas de receocidn con
criterios ticr icos, eccr.6micos y ambientales, una (1) :ampa6a de
concientizac:n publica para [a protecci6n del medio marino y la realiza=cn
de varios talleres t6cniccs y legales sobre el Proyecto WCISW_
b)    Para Colombia como cais bene1ciario del Provecto WC SW: un proyecto
de reglamentacidn del Convenio MARPOL 73/78 en proceso de aprobaci6n
racionail; la c=fforrnackn del Grupo Nacional de Trabajo para tratar estos
temas (Minister;o de Transporte. Ministerro dei Medco Ambiente,
Superintendencia de Puertos, Carision Colombiana de Oceanografia y
Direccion General Marftima) y un proceso de aprobaci6n Politica de ia
Estrategia Nacional para implementar ei P!an Nacional de Ccbertur3 :le
Instalaciones de Recepcidn de Residucs de Buques (documerto prcducida
por el Proyectc para Colombia).
4 Desde su punto de vista, c=iles aon las lecciones claves Cel Proyecto
WCISW para futuros proyectos?
Respuesta:
DiMAR esta ce acuerdo =n las lecziones aprendidas plarteadas -or el
Banco Muncia, ademras se sug:ereq las siguientes:
a)    A traves de la Implementacion del WCISW, se ha detectado la necesidad
de buscar una mayor integracj&a intemacional para elaborar estrategias
regionales para la proteccion del medio marino con el apoyo de organismos
financieros rnutilaterales y regionales.
b)    En los casos an que el Banco Mundial quiera desarroUlar proyactos
regionales enfocados a la protecci6n del medio marir.o debena
establecerlos a mediano plazo, con etapas de evaluaci6n reaiizadas por el
mismo Banco y agrupando los paises ma-s homogeneos en aspectos
culturales, legales y economicos, para garantizar que su ejecuLci6n sea mas
eficiente.
c)    Ef Sanco Mundial deberfa contar con  ef apoyo y la asesoria de
arganizaciones internacionales especializadas esiel terna ambientl y en el
terna marftimo para que los resultados sean 6ptimos econmicamente y
eficaces tcicnicmente.



M:R    -,J9  01:43PT1 W13          PON   C.O :NO.  222263G         YlN. 02
d)   Es necesario identificar un mnecanismo regional de coordinacidn de las
actividades desarroliadas por la parte financiera (v gr. 8anco Mundial),
tecnica (v gr. OMI) y fos paises beneficianos (v.gr angloparlantes e
hispanoparlantes).
a)    Con el proposito da eviar dobles esfuerzos es necsario que un organismo
internacionai estudie y coordine las actividades que estrn realizando
organismos regionales en la Region def Gran Caribe con respecto ai medio
rnarino, pcr ejerrmplo las actividades de las Secretarias del Convenic de
Cartagena y la Asociaci6n Estados del Caribe (AEC).
3.    ,Cual ns 12 situac!6n actual ce cumnplimiernto por parte ce su pa[s con
relacidn a In ratificacdin e Implementaci6n de los Anexos I, iJ y V del
Convenio MARPOL 73/78?
Respuesta:
Colombia aprc=6 el Convenho intemacional para prevenir la onzaminaci6n por
buques de 1973 y su Protocolo de 1978 (MARPOL 73/78) jcnto cn las cinco (5)
Anexos, por la Ley 12 de 4191.
En la actualidad, la Dir2czidr General Maritma (DIMAR) como autcr-Kdad marftima
nacicnal, aplica el Corvenio 'MARPOL a los buques de bandera colombiana que
cmrnplen con las caracterfsticas del Convenio y esta en proceso de aprobaci6n el
reglamento de protec:idn del medio rrajno para aqueilos buques peque6os y de
cabotaje que no pueden cumplir con la t alidad de las normas de este Convenio.
En cuanto a los buques de bandera extranjera que flegan a puertcs =olombianos
DIMAR, a trav4s de! Acuerdo de Vina del Mar exige el cumplimienta del Convenio
MARPOL
Para los anexos I y 11 del Convenio, esta aprobado oficialmente el Plan Nacronai
de Contingencia cortra Derrames de Hidrocarburos, Derivados y Sustancias
Nocivas en Aguas Marinas, Fluviales y Lacustres. Asf mismo en cuanto a
instalacione-s de recepci6n en puerto existe en tramite de aprobacion de
,uncicnamiento, en los puertos de Santa Marta, Covehias y Cartagena de indias-
En este ultimo, por ejemplo, son siete (07) (as solicitudes para la construcci6n de
esta infraestructura, que le darfan al puLerto una amplia capacidad de recepci6n y
maneic de dese:hos proverientes de buques.
Sin embargo. estas actividades estin en un proceso de implementacion, el cual
requiere de apoyo financiero para cpacitaci6n  e infraestructura de las
autoridades maritima, portuaria y ambiental.



JUN 23 '99  01:44PM WB/LA3C2                                             P. 5/5
FROlrf :DIMIR                       PHONE NO. : 2222636             JWU. 132 09 09:.gA
4.    4Que continuaria del Proyecto que sea de utilidad para su pais en procura
de proteger el medio marina ?
Respuesta:
a)    Es necesari coritinuar en forrna sostenida can el apoyc a los Gr.pos
Nacionales de Trabaic, creados a partir del Proyecto, a taves de la
capacdtaci45n y suministfr de recursos a las instituciones nacionales
encargadas del tema Por ejemplo para lograr que estos elaboren a
implementen estrategias maribmas para prevenir la contaminaa6n marina
proveniente de buques y estrategias portuarias en lo concemiente a las
instalaciQnes de recepci6n, que permitan el eficaz cumplimiento del
Convenio MARPOL.
b)    Las cmparnas de concientizacdn publica para la protecci6n del medio
marino enfocadas a un pafs especffico O grupo de parses homog6neos
para que la informacidn sea mas fdcil de divulgar.
c)    Continuar con el firme prop&sito de elaborar una o vanas sstrate0ias
regionales para hacer efectiva la declaratoria del Mar Caribe como Area
Especial de acuerdo al Anexo V (Basuras) del Convenio MARPOL
4*
Atentanente,
rante AIfonso Calero Espinosa
~~~~~Director Goneral Marffimo
cc. - Sr. 0. Khalimonov. Qirecor Divisi6n del Medio Marino. OMI
- Sr. Anders Alm. Coordinador del Proyecto WCTSW
- Sr. CN- Edgar Cely Nu9iez Representante Permanents de Colombia ante la OMI



990479
San Jose, Costa. Rica, May 26, 1999
Mr. Or3alia Xal1ntzopoulos
Director Caribbean Country Management Unit
Ladn America and the Caribbe2n Regio-s
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.                              Ref. ICR's Comments ans recommendaiions
Dear Mr. Kalantzopouics:
Despite of all tae dfe.-rnces, probiems and difncultiEs between The World 3ank and NMo
mentioaed in {he TCR and even though these mattars do not concern directly :o te counmies
invoived in the WCISW -projec; I can poiar our sorne important aspect for Cotar Rica as a resuk
or the WCISW project:
1. Tnhe irt pbase objezves were well accomnlshed in the case of Costa Rica s;ce t- basis
,.or ratrfication of  fARUOL 73178 were  stablished, i:clusiveiy the Convention is in this
mornent at the Pari;arnt and is about to b.e razified.
2. Costa PUca received ve,- valuable information and documentation throuLh the dif5ere=
ways the project allowed it ( workshops, re.porrs,contacts With people ail over .be Canbbean,
40on>rances )
3  The establishzent o. .e a nter,ns=tu.onal and interdiciplinary National Wcriing GroLan was
a g;reaa success and i: ,s possibie that iT conzinuas iTs work in fut.re.
4. The   ARPC L 7 ,'-8 Conve.tion becomes popular among  private and aubi.c sectors
and as a result there was much bce=r n*onal awareness regarding    hcw to deal
with wastes aenerated bY snips.
However, as it is mentioned in the ICR, there were. some aspets wher the project was aegiectful
mainly about airning and support to L-nplement the MAIR?O1. 73/78 Convenaton.
I re  r that the relationship World Bank-NMO was not as good as I could have wished, and I
regret also that this situaton takes the financing body to the decision of cancellia' rhe 7rnjeer
bur I undertand the reasons the Worfd Bank remarks. In this sense, I agreed with rhe stens to be
taken for firure s;r-:ilar inicia:ives.
Yours tusE- ,                cz < >                 , //  t-
Ing.Jorge Hen4ndezChavaria             7>eNS7
Director Generl ransporte Maritimo  .          c
Ministerio de Obr3s uiblicas y Trarsporte s
cc: nag. Rodoifo ly[ezdez MarL NMi io de obrs PibLicas y Transportes



AlEF:P195.10                   ih  C                                                            A
IIl  -   _                             rz~~~~~~TE CAAG.NAGrz.
BG>                                 ~~~~~~~sT. Oc4a.ta
PhIon-: (809) 440.3013                           20   May. t999                                 GRENOA   W'.l.
.bb
Orsalia .Kiaanecoulos,
Dir---or 5'
Canbbe=n Cour.c: Miaragemnent Unic.
Lain x3erca rd:h Canbden Re,-on.                           .        -c
The Worfd Bank. 6A .R                                                 UC
wVwsi:zigton 3 C Y'0k33.
U SA
Deer Si:.
WCISW PROJECT - [CR FEED BACK(
u: e-  r        ,     I !av y  S999. .e,re-d.
'9' 1C'."; '-,'.'. Oveuii. we succor- rhe conc;usions          ~ '-e:-o  f ot he
L:)er_e-.z ron. wz.:ie!:on R-cor. :-oweveer we are o  he *t ev     -_  e b ?.ojec:
M.al/ Za;e s- - illn'!C     Me ir--?or-anct  'L' .S_0  L.O ver - :7. ~-as        ~~ bee-
'C~~OE'*~~'-'   ~  --S '- ?rvdin  pan-Cipac:ncr COU?.:r.: ':::  _1Vr.e.:VIl=:L
ne-lssa3-:'  :c       -rCvs;;cr.s o '-e Cor:ern:or.. I' n's -:c.
reco       :      z ca *     -      iLRDr have hem    - c  _i'Z 
:- -^~::or -o  -s;e =iAqcca ar.c r.-a  ...r.   ' t-ac z-rnx :-4: -_r
&- =~co: ~z~c.~;  .:: _-.e c. essed sc-me;   -!:Calsstes: :his . ;.
: - r : e :roiez: wvas _ser.  bu :    _ - -- r.:-  o be
_cr-:Z-S-z-  -.cc:rr.:-g:s.an:o . Ls i.  :tace :0    res::-: :;z. ':': nad
c-- :-..::- sUSi: g l. - ;vas nezessar.
;'--.c  _-  cx. .    e    or; I    c:  *vas cone  o:                    ard
orcrnr.Qo1- .-av1-; hwowdever. descie  ..  ex:scence OL rc~           ::.c_ OCts. no
prov;sions '.-      :c .'.=ce -.asa  -:szr.-ucon ar tocai leveL.
:r.aIl'.'. we Wo aoc -ecail be:r.z  ar-. co rhe Dec!araticn  :i;c iOu-z- txt.sion or
con.i_tez .c     .     e-.:; cr :he ?-oiec: - in: amn. Sucan ar n         .    *c.ziu seemed
:o aav:' :-a  ir e 'ztmsanct or Oro!ec- obTec:; wes.
'ours .aa-r....
GREN A-DA PORT S _    HOR-r'I
m-nbrose ?!iii.
*  -erat  tanag-r.
kP/ab



COMISION NACIONAL DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE
PRESIDENCIA MEIA  REPUSUCA
~ W          7 J4                   GLIA-TMALA
494-99/A]P/Tdcgv.
M=o 25 de 1999.
;     Cbbo no
' - :K219i= 0UiCS
-iz- ra. sos Car:bbea- Cc=-,
-M .   . .              Ame:ocm md
: =agc  =       it:, Lzaszg -  -             U
* E~daseioz        rznor os:
En e         a su       No. 368 de fec;a 19 de mavo, pre-no a rewsomd. los c6vics que
2eZ' ~.foc~ en si. -  ica:, nos peoS CO==    I' qe               I'   & i-
The WIde: Car-bb= !=-LaLe, on Smgted Wase (WCISW) Projec-l razific6
e =pie    6 e1 Cel   v:o !NLAOL 73/t7;on aceptable 6cro, sobre zco _ lo Ice aI l'
de-=ues=o Caiibe s. =a-e. ESB  Co-6- icabi6 de los coordinadorrs d  or,vec=c v de las
Auzozdadmdec la DtL<ac6n Manr, I   a          fozi -041fI- suficenze   ai3=70,  4 S=do
de 0 0Sta=S en . p.oczso dc  -c;con (de las instalacones de rece-n e= e. A este
respecro vale la p=  comenr ;que &cih     s -iIaciones fon  p l  d- la in  a 
F='7=1 pues suVccr3 c3 t-sas que con mv=n. prop;a dcofll         n e :   G- cnla I
*ySi05n de xecoIecl: de id&-ocrbaros Dic  lo anor respodeos s-s c6picos   la
' ' genOf!Tl
Senros que ci prsoyeO WCaW  coI2duvo  premnrix-I re, Oues la fse de
mlIemcaci6--_e dc  r e       s  7a no se di6, y -to las Auzoddes A.bi=mles
COMo Ias em0rsas ponunas y los invcrse asms p=vridos resixon la  la de
cootiauidad e ci proyecto, porqme  =Sh= de nues=s acciones mn.-2on que set
to=adu por zasotr  mznaos, card=id    a la feci. de un aL= cad-21 dc
cotgc&cia   m Tl sido.      -
. r . ' . :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



:blb
COMISION NACIONAL. DEL MEDIO AMtENTE
PRESIDENCIA.: DE'.LA REPUBUCA
GUAT-EMALA
CZrecnos que =2 dc las Iecc='cs i2s rmpor==re  I ==c de lo =~r es cuc los
fLL=os provec=cs co-ndur; tat y co=o fuon dise:ados 12ci,p=~sta qua
=t nosoi=s como p=~to rbo~i co=o 1 ls est=tes z=odad~~ dez a    ns6
p:ibEm de- los case a. los que se                                                   ,.vohn3, =l ci cs  de cx=sz  -  y
-ccind#jo =2 la fiaaizaci6a de sm aoones.
Guat=aIa al =        MAR.NLlOL 73/78. la hizo sobre; odos stz =:r-s 7~ =t
es-a  oesvea     -cuc se disrcowva as codicines de rafcao  zci M=Vo         
Rds cao 2 a ]  i     6     dei Ccov io MARPOL 73/78 t=                       la
amo  =4&ao  dcl- ze-c:o dei =:so  --=.~se co3acii.zy e Gu=,e--aia  =~sovo cde los
,ersonczos de: P-ov,-co WCISW, pc-o qpzem =ne la ccndiasi6n ao      ei c pyecmo,
=30 =3e==73 ild6-  = r-os                del nit   - . Tt s~oor:C-   cz'es
Ob=s NbZ= '. Viviemia de Giuarenaia.
C-oj=o nos zeiii-cs -- el -      1lueg  cde La =fc2cix5n del C--v-o 2MA2K'-7L
73/73 c=r=t=o           sLdea=a.      c  inici=iv  pxia    qas cte  renromn Su
- aaco    pue=o, 'cro C=bie- comoa en Io  otros iacisos lo      ~       
aicanzar- =a v=-de=~ tnorecai&c del =.aedio    no = Guarca1a  scbze t-o -n,s
lirool Ca:ie,- se reqm=e cormaz -una senc rns de =edidas ca 3oiic:66= de ese 7 orros
conv=zos en         11ena  aa.2
*~~~~~~~~~ :                                                                     :
At ..                                 . rL
4:ArP
..  o  .         daa



COMIS[ON NACIONAL DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE
PRESIDENCA DE LA. REPUBUCA
.:GUATEMALA
SUTMAR1O
E proye=o WCSW  psodujo   GuaaaL a pzo    mfca  n dei coavcio AitRPoL
7,, /7&  tIxaiti,4 de ns S 2n:as.
;: Produjo    S     a  :6=  dc ni~ s  pxvadas p=  la -=9Iec-  de desec os de
.Bidicaxbzos piov.  ews  de los baqu=, su  Iac7t y- :rinca                  - : ;   y
posteoriniiz-E:6s = 5Tczs de ccmica y de caito; CONiLNLAM   sc dbceEi6   =    dI
=scT.s del tmve= coa =rrSca tixcam si  m de ccciEcad6i c  las las:l:c   de
.;;S= e  r-e=, e-,-mO cn a2o qe  es.s m:sas  sc co.--                       agYt es
*C            dCi .c0 ~D1  resS: -.
- Ots       ades o  celad  dei e--=do -m  ccio emprcsas pO%3rS 7 Niisrczo de
-g-  a 3rg  y hiis, se isvoiu=n e-n  i pro7eczo xud=ndo a es-a Au d=   r:;i  como
:.~rc .ocal,  sa   i               r0t aon  Co  e- a::bcs liorals del  ciEs : :?   Cari
-    aio!Ir=dzr.o lu ~a t- : 3: & poycip- que se adi-  ias sig.==
.Eases,  c=l- como rc   cn v desmLoZo de :a c=o-a de co -_zac:s _   asa,
ptndc~~do inClosoC   rav;:sza  v  Is p~rrr q=e 3c ayu  b=  murtzc =    des^flo
* ae.~ ~zov en  Guar=ia
Es -  esnr, que -ro Ma O C . como ci        Muco:   dial contimi acvdo a CONNAMA
p-  pa per imp     -. ;  .a n o ei Cv     LtOo  ',',' cnmo
aueios  C=vics &  nar 1emza rm ia   en asveztos de ccon=minac6  di  mar
p..c rces de buzuzs.
Respecto a a evaulunn dci Su,ano, me qui=o r=e_'al punao VL p    ;ini  5 desm d,utcro
el senio qce corcordncmcs = G ue  los 6 piscs del iea que =tcoc  cl c
- equcre de c3p==con r = v 1 ers base a contuar esfiecos va -niizados.



6/3,4/99  MOZI? 23:00 F. I
ZS.,~~~~~~~p (aa7,7,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI ft.ef!.
1999 June :F.
Mr. Orsalia Kalantzopoulcs
Directcr
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin Amenican & The Catribbean
Wcrfd Bank
Washington D.C 2C433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Kalantzopculcs,
RE:  The Wider Caribbean fnitiative on Ship-Generated Waste LWCOSWU  Project-
Imolementation comoletion Recort.
Reference is made to your letter of 11999 May 7 requesting feedbacx on he repcr, at
capticn.   T he Jamaican Gcvermment first of ail wisnes to take this c-crtunity to
=mmend the Wcrld Bank for -nnancing such a. project.
It wilf be seen from tUe comments below that the WCISW Project provided a catalyst as
well as guidance for Jamaica's efforts tc uograde its maritime legai and institutional
framewcrk   We were therefore very vccal in recommending that the -prjec5 be
continued, and much disasccinted when it was terminated in 1998.
Below are comments and racornmendatiorsVs requested:
1     Does the ICR's summnis crovide a comclete and fair oost orciect evaatiotan?
Certain administrative crablems between IMO and the World Bank are alluded to in the
Project summary which Jamaica and perhacs indeed many states invoived is project,
would not have been aware of and so would not be in a position to state whether they
accurately reflected the situaticn or impacted negatively on the project signitfcantly.
WNe however support the point made in (v) cf the repart  That given tue involvement in
the prcject of over 22 countries with two different fegal systems and severai different
languages, the period allowed for completion of the project may have been cotimistcJ
.............. .12



Mr. 0. Kaiantzopulous
Page 2
199i June 07
This also reinforcs the belief that the decision to ctcse the project at the planned tme
was precipitous as it should have been manifest early in the implementation prccess
that thesa characteristics of the target groups (legal and language barriers) would
hamper timely Implementaton.
In (vii) it was stated that which achievements were made in terms of ratfication of the
convention, that of the wider issues was less satisfactory. In this regard, cbservance of
Lagreed regional strategy and intemalization of procedures necessary fcr Icng term
sustainability' were oted. To say that these were not achieved during the allocated time
is colrect. It should hcwever be noted that the last technicai meering held in Mexcd
City in September '997 cutUined such a strategy and states were to consider the
proposals and make their response to the prcject.  For e.g. it was ;rcpcsed that
Jamaica be a hutb fr cily wastes from Haiti.
In relation to Project cUt.ou sustainability, Jamaica had also, based on the strategy
developed by cur naticnal wcrNkng grcup (NWG), sent a proposal to the VVCISW
requesting assistanca to- deveiop a was;e management plan for implementatc;n cf the
strategy including training of perscnnel. T-hus the extension of the project as advccated
by several states at the Tictago Legal Wcrhishcp in December 1997 may weil have seen
these project objectives atzained.
2.    What are t-e kv lessans to be drawv -rcm tte VCSW forfuture :rcects!
Ensure that Naticnai Fccal Pointt:; Are selected on "he basis Co operational
ef`icency by getting a response from each HcstlRecipient Govemrment.
ii.   IEnsure thlat Naticnal fccal Points are not interchnangeable or are likely funczion
for the duralion the project
iii.    Ensure that a national working group is selected and functionai and inc!ude
representatives frrm all stakeholders in the Host/recipient ccuntry.
iv.    Require progress reports from NWG's and for Govemment at the highest level to
ensure that the goals tc be achieved are indeec achieved and acthievable.
v.    Provide the avenue for review of proiect document if necessary and refccusing of
metlhodolcgies anc direction to ersure that project remains on target
vi.    Require the projec: coordinating team to visit each country to assess and see
first hand the effects of the project.
........... .3



Mr. 0. Ka1antopoulos
Page 3
1999 June 07
vii.   Ensure that the Public Awarenes campaign is implemented by either making the
arrangements with Media Houses directly or making a Budget available to the
NFP's to host and cocrdinate workshops, make arrangements for seminars,
engage the services of Media Houses etc.
viii.   Request a needs list. from NFFPs and Govemments as to the types of assistance
required legal and technical to what extent this should be inclusive of time frame
and costs. This snculd be dcne at the beginning so that there wculd be an
agenda and tmetatfe fcr each country which could be cccrdinated regionally.
3&4   Current s-Latus of ccmoliance and contributicn in imfrovinr  the nrorectorn of the
envircnment.
Jamaica acceded to MAR?CL and its tIve (5) annexes in 1990. Thrcugh the WCISW
Project, the fcllowing has been ac.7ieved in tem"s of implementation.
i.    After having ratifiec l1ARPOL 73f7a we were urged to finalize the enactment of
mocdem Shipping legislation.
iij.    are in the process of preparng marine prevention Pollution Lagislaticn
iii.    Ratinled t,e CLC and Fund Conventions
iv.    Acuvely pursuing .-aficaticn of the OPRC Ccnventcn
v.    Established a MViantThe Authcrity
vi.   Signed the Cari-bean NIOU on Pcrt S.ate Control and trained Ship Inspectors.
Vii   Sensitized sectlcns of Jamaica Public c the imocrtance of preven.ing marine
Pollution.
Viii   Currenrty engagec in a feas;nility Stucy to construct a Waste Recacticn Facility
(WRF)
ix    The project was also tmely in establishing a Multi Disciplinary National Working
Group (NWG), thrcugh which we were able to see all other projects dealing with
other aspec:s of Marine Pollution, coordinate the varicus bcdies to avoid
duplication and focus on cur domestic capabilities for local Waste Management
Systems.
.............. .14



Mr. 0. Kalantzopoulos
Page 4
1999 June 07
Consequent an these achievements Jarnaica is well poised to fvllfil her obligations in
collaboration with other states of the Wider Caribbean in facilitatng the actvation of the
'special area- status cf the Caribbean Sea under MARPOL 78178 Annex V.
Yours sincerely,
Peter L. Brady
RearAdmiral (Retd)
Director General



GOVE:lVN r OF SAL4T LUCrA
-156TY OF fIANC AND PDLN JQC-
The 7aerint
18th May, 1555                                                          Cwrew -umnL Luca
Ms Orsalia Xana-oulcs
Director
Canbbean. Cotzg=er ;aragf=ent U.i;                  -            a      -   L - C J 9 i
Lati. Aerca and -e Can:icexz RcgroF                                      I 1 3O.I
The WorLd -azk C-Gu?                      -                    c4 ,AI7 -a
7i8 18 Steer.T%. .i._____________.
Washington rC X2C3O4Z                                    ptU             C;r.7 =_SW CQtq Ad9 Pr-
'JSA                                                      J-  , _----e
D:ear Mws K7.Sn ::cuos
Thse Wider Ca eae I=    i      ane on Shi-  Ge=erated Was.e WC-w) ?je^t:
ImpIeinea::;:ov C3piedo= Repor  - Feedback fr=m 3e-:                  C-nes
-. ac~ccwie^,^ .-;i- -_-; -^   ~ oi -u   e   r-ae!,a                   -.    <se~.
^ _rovce --- - c~-- -: er _z-= e-zs a--  s=a7; as -:   :.
! .   EVaIU=tn of z'Cz S-=a7 Provded
-__  j__; s+z   zCes         a c zieto ar- '--l-_a-or.
-~e w~sz :o zz~z:  aza  w~e                             =_sc:       e
acc:-z   `=-se -ss= - -'-',_`-     s=-aL  - a7 _ sc---   = _:-- =.so 
~:cz:. s;^c-ss        = - ee-s:
:c-s;z,  e ( eaed   oss.-ce e:. aaivses -, szc  _sz-:-over7
s _ r-st tszabi es :shsier-: of waste
."c-l c          c     reworx   ara cisc-ss:zz  .:r-   ;e:e  rot
eszab*s^:;d
Ses   c   or Wsicr/oLicC  =akers  .ccr :o .-o        :
--as lac6a,;
'e:eoos-e~   of  :He  I-e-siat -e,  adH.-is ra_-e  a ~ s:onal
r-3-ework was lac=zg;
Curmut s-oc src_   -r fccussed ar :te r.adonai !edi:



Did not sake eough use of qualified national and regonal consultants
a.nd organizations;
Did not drrelop specific project proposals and options for dor-or support.
Countries were not gven adequate oppornity to gu'e -::e decton of
project ac,vites;
Not enou7, 1L- kages were made beween  Ship-generatd- wastes and
e:.sting/:rorosed oians for larnd-based waste manage=: -z-e early
stages.
2.    Key Lessons to be Drawn from the WCISW  for Future Proje=
P.ojects suc- as -tese reciuire a =ore hoListc aocroac  -z --s-Ze --a aXll
aspects  ait  corsr:cer-e:    -icenrves,  mark-ets.  c-:s:  :ez;e,
adirsnaac-. e=crceen-, :acLCes, loublic awa-e-zs a-.c :aOLcZa.
SulOpon;
L n.volve-e--.f ocu.--es ~a:    Hi-e nes  level ir or-ic:        _ -
n:;wle~ea=o-. =cra:or::g a-C' :ve.-ev :s c. tncal .in es-nz - zcv~e--e
,_      :C:e      aa v=-__es 
x     A<l;though   - .vas c.-T-encdaoJ- zo  na:ve a  prolec:  -^            22
csev e oan: :z!     -aes esdec:aL!, *-, e s:ana  or eees.
c e -e; =. :ecnuca. r zcai arc acr---'sz-zt
of se e~:e-  -^X-es ~ace projec:  anagevces-: vea-;-- _::
WTh,ereas nezhani s s r~s:b e esza:sLs;nee  to acbie;    r  ;siain  zr
-uuor-ano-., ::zec- i  ie<ez.ta-or   a-av bes. be acfi-c a: sa i~e
sub-r eto- a e:;e: ;
x      m'here is a :-ed O cvelo- -rojec: ouZU:s that a:-e cle-~--    -aczcai
b:eneff'stS o - r c::ann aCoS5'1 _ e s
3.    Status of MARPOL 73/73 Ratification
Tne G-overnmnen: of CSain Lucia reairs co       ired to the for=a: -ratcanor of
t!H  MLAPJ?OL, 3.3 R Dor  7   o3    n-e a' CDsz,- of  a-nac .--   - a-i,-1n  n
collaboration wir- -,-e S. Lucra Soid. Wiaste IManag-e=er: Auhcn, --t_e St Ludca
Air and Sea Porns Aurhority and the MIr-str of Leg-al Affairs is Z -te orocess of
finalizing  legisladoU   in a draf: Marine  Polluion  Ac: t-at v   effec: the
provislons of this convennor.
Concurrently, the estabiishrnent of a   IMaritie.Affairs Desk a: tue MiListv of
Counications  and Work-s will  enable  effective  acdni-s=acor. of the
convention once siged. it is also andtcipated that garbage receodion facilities



wifl be installed at selected ports on the island by the end of 1999. Eforts are
ongoing at the sub-rewonaL level to address the problemn of O17 wastes.            .
4.    Usefulness of WCISW Project
C-ene-ally, t!e Ccv  .e=t of St Lucia ben.cered sigiEcazlr Eo= :!e project
and acrvit.es  cake- whiie recoci:ing the defic4ences _ zroJes: ou=uts
especial.y as -:7r7s ha-niz.  The fo1ow.n h iaLgbs sc-h or  e  .ajor
benefzs.
-  Te 1e,  azd        - x eors have bee- a_ invaaZ'ie :sc           the
for--mul-a of -:c',- a-d crog,--es to hazW.e sCdra:e Oaszes;
- Te  cac,- Cf cubEi!c awa-*_-_nss  _ater als pro:c_a sert -corcrared
ir:o a W.: o r l.c e-.Zcan:cr. an.a senSi=zaorn   CarZ_- :-     -w asze
~ana,-: a: -ez.a-cr:a_ e;ei;
7'-  a     --_-_C_ or a Na`cna-, Wor-, C-rou:, z r-o  e
e.xezsrve =- -^     ~ :--oic-.rsz or: w.e issue cf s.-~ e-r-e.wasLe
-c.  -.        :a zr.a_,--   -e vL'--O LA_O 313 Cc=-.- r-;
'ECS SWi:7 -siec  .vas         --rzes a--- s os   -- ;e
and k _  -_-za-- -o avaas:e oa:age=en:;
-   ..: :rot,-_- ---s :o ..-e __e:e o_._e-z o- eg,sia-n -: --  -z -or
.'. .)<       - - - -  ae.-    v-o r -- ': Ma---e  . zs   -s -: -~-*-o' -v  o
^ z e- -- --- \ [ ----7-asz
-^ Te reoczi- - ou  _: iav :re -.+ci u Fse _ u  a e ; -es --: c_s   . .2S;_
=.an.age_de: a:-  a  az  sea   a-S  La:=G-es 'n -e-----  -e nose
DS.    SSummary of Caoents
.ae C-cve--:' : o Sa   _ c _ciz be-ei:e 4 s4ig  canr: -on   --        -
of the wide:- C.za- -iba-e on  Sc:.,-gemera:ed Wasze ?-z,ea ,,CeSWJ
Lncreased se-sIz-n-  a-: puiic awae-ness of tHe orooie=s  %ssca:e  with
Sh'i.-ge-neraze: .rasz-s cou:Led    r an. L-.c-eased cs-;=; -:-:          amv-co 
approlonate arsnn_-Cnai. aCi-"sn-auve ana. regulaor-r rra=c:k .:zve bee
some of the =ore  gnidcar- bez-es.
Diculties in O        adfOT% ac.stra:rn  a.d  an  meLc.en.t war---g ri-aoaship
between. the Wnord Bar-n  and the DO0  were reflected in so=.- of the major
deaciencies in projec: oututs. The lack of colpierion of trgaii  ac:Mdes may
have i.plicatiors for ezec=ve ad;;s  atiao   and en.forcee-t of the NLM LOL
73/78 Convendon.



I.
Additionafy, there is a need for greater input by ctunties in proect
conceptualization, implmentation, monitoring and review. This should result
in greater comnintent to the project at the national lvel. When such
multilateral projects are considered, greater effort must be made to involve
national and regional consultants and organizations and where appropriate,
develop specic ac&vties at the sub-regional level with cou'nes that have
similar needs.-
Yours sincerely
BENA.RD LA COR.wERE
Permanent Secretiy
OC/sCi
if.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND THE EIRONMENT
GOVERNMENT OF SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINE
DATE. w> .iay i
REF:
FAX TRAN5~7AL FORM
TO:           Orsz!a --Wculcs                                 FAX  NC: zoai _-,.
Cirsc=r
Castcear.-16 2un-nr1' anaga am,at~rr
7- e Carea.   -s:cr.r
FROIC I:    (ulian Cart,                                     FAX NC:         .
.mlir i s;- -acnl A~e-.vrfr..
S7. VINC247.
.Nfi~._r7 ?s2as (inclC';2!:-^'s  Wva 'e:er;  (-,
SUSJECT: 7ne Wider Oanttean Initative  sn Ship-Generated Waste ,1NC;sW
P -o'ec.. -a: !-.otesre3crmi Orcrmcfen .ecorr _ =ierb8c T C
nsennc:arv 2.cun'-.s.
i ne oilowing r r;v =y  mmer=  n re Sur.lrarz Imopementan Ccmtpwon
F-.eecrr (ICR).
W.rr cr t a view tia 4,e iC's S.L--4 iS a  ir aC r Snacio p
evajuation =u would like to h,ighligr  f4e ftUwing issues based On the tour
aas prmviCed fr commerff
.. Vi.



*  T;e need ;br a .rerai . !C -.ffice. sta1Cfe: ty de co-rainar, suaccrlg ,   alcng wih
-,,a filowing offtic:aus s.cc ;zavG been antacparee anc our in place.
ni      Two legwal c- crmcfrers.
(T)    a7wo tec.a1imm ^  rs/o  Sce.
*  ;s ;t '"-s r  say         -a . arx's CECS  zrc;ec. SciiC  arc  Sz,c-:s,arPzac ,vasna
Managemerr. was  .:.c ::awing cn re WC.SW  ;lec?
- . - 1    Lm awars. -3   __a Piec: --mas wvei ir,        ss;cn anc  t  acn ;, 'e
vvC:SW  Projec    e-' ,,e  in SS-
.-, e: c.Jtes zr.i-          -r:cac'.ers zervveer :.e 7,MC anc 7.e .vc.-c 3a:-x s,,culc
2ave zeern a-,cc::  .i :.ramra 7a -C._  j  3tnCL;C  ave  Ven  sw, -l                  z r
:=  rc :r.aiy.2 y
* ~-naicr !esscn ica.77-        nrmc_,/ -Z ger  u:7=.6s -a agrae  7 r'C_
acCr, wr.en eac:.-     .-r ts cwr, acenca wrc.,  s sornetmes -ic. er
*  2~t. Vrcsnr and J ,e _; .rar e as airae4  .arrec M'bar-^cl 73i73 ar_= :.ir.  under
-- CESSWM :!c :;@ -X-lc:Dcn c:tires arz Zeing _ns;;c. aid:,nailv. >.e
'-ei;id P^ii'C'J, cSt:Si-_- _..C .-SCL!azcns ara -:i -_ 7e-crg rfe O8ou-e:- Ccrn.
*  ~.'e ~r:rec: tre s _e  .saar. in Zunar :4-a .c aC  ZCt sic--aariarmc wasm ;s
zes,rig zut in piace -ar--cv ;r-crcving re  r--rsc;cn cf *-e manne a .rcr.rmerm.
Mr luian Carztl
C.iief Environmem=l Heealt2
9tfsr-



