Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19362 AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONNA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$SDR 19.7 MILLION (US$ 26.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA
FOR
DAM SAFETY PROJECT
MAY 25, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Armenia and Georgia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 1999)
Currency Unit = SDR
LC = AMD
US$1 = LC 536.26
FISCAL YEAR
1999
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP     Bank Procedures                           IP      Implementation Progress
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy               IS      International Shopping
CQ     Consultants' Qualifications               MW      Minor Works
DO     Development Objective                     NA      Not Applicable
DME   Dam Maintenance Enterprises                NCB    National Competitive Bidding
DSP    Dam Safety Project                        NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
ECA    Europe and Central Asia                   NS      National Shopping
EMA   Emergency Management Agency                O&M   Operation and Maintenance
EPP    Emergency Preparedness Plans              OME   Operation Maintenance Enterprises
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                   OP      Operations Policy
EWS   Early Warning Systems                      PAD    Project Appraisal Document
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization of the  PAR    Population at Risk
United Nations                          PIU     Project Implementation Unit
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and  PMB   Project Management Board
Development                             PMR   Project Monitoring Report
IC     Individual Consultant                     PMF   Portable Maximum Flood
ICB    International Competitive Bidding         QCBS  Quality and Cost Based Selection
IDA    International Development Association     RFP    Request for Proposals
IDP    Irrigation Development Project            SOE    Statement of Expense
IFAD   International Fund for Agricultural       TA      Technical Assistance
Development                             TOR    Terms of Reference
WUAs Water Users Associations
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Judy O'Connor
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Team Leader: Salem Gafsi



iii
REPUPBLIC OF ARMENIA
DAM SAFETY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...................................................... 2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .2
B. Strategic Context                                .2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  .3
C. Project Description Summary                           .4
1. Project components                           .4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought         .5
3. Benefits and target population .5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements            .5
D. Project Rationale                                .7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection    .7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  .9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design        .9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .10
E. Summary Project Analysis .10
1. Economic .10
2. Financial .11
3. Technical .11
4. Institutional.                                                            1
5. Social .12
6. Environmental .12
7. Participatory approach .13
8. Checklist of Bank Policies .14
F. Sustainability and Risks .14
1. Sustainability .14
2. Critical Risks .15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .                                          15



iv
G. Main Credit Conditions ........................                                15
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................ 15
2. Other ........................ 15
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                          17
I. Compliance with IDA Policies ........................                          17
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Economic Analysis
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table B.       Procurement Arrangements
Table C.       Procurement Plan
Table D.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table E.       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Armenia at a Glance
Map



U                                                                        - 
ARMENIA
Dam Safety Project (DSP)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECCO3
Date: 5/25/99                                     Task Team Leader: Salem Gafsi
Country Director: Judy O'Connor                   Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: 64879-AM   Sector: Agriculture        Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: SIL                           Program of Targeted Intervention: [] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan  [X]  Credit  []  Guarantee   [   Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount SDR 19.7 million (US$26.6 million equivalent):
f     ng Plan (US S M):
Source                              Local          Foreign        Total
Government                                                    37             0.0           3.7
Co-financiers
IBRD
IDA                                                           8.8            17.8          26.6
Other
Total       12.5           17.8          30.3
Borrower:                 Government of Armenia
Guarantor:                N/A
Responsible Agency:       Ministry of Agriculture
Project implementation period: October 1999-September 2004
Est!-Ated Disbursement (Bank FY/USSM)
--Y    |   2000           2001          2002           2003          2004          2005
Annual      4.0            5.8           5.0            4.5            4            3.3
Cumulative      4.0            9.8          14.8           19.3          23.3          26.6
For Guarantees
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (USSM):
Final maturity:
Amortization profile:
Financing available without guarantee:           [    Yes              [   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
OSD PCD Form: July 30, 1997



I



Armenia
Dam Safety Project (DSP)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECCO3
Date: 5/25/99                                       Task Team Leader: Salem Gafsi
Country Director: Judy O 'Connor                    Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: 64879-AM    Sector. Agriculture         Program Objective Category: EntvirotntenttallivSustainable
Developnent
Lending Instrument. ERL                             Program of Targeted Intervention: []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                 []  Loan    [XI Credit   [] Guarantee  [] Other [Specify'
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount SDR 19.7 million (US$26.6 million equivalent):
Financing plan (US $ m):
Source                               Local           Foreign         Total
Government                                                      3.7             0.0            3. 7
Co-financiers
IBRD
IDA                                                             8.8             17.8          26.6
Other (specify)
Total      12.5             17.8          30.3
Borrower: The Government ofArmenia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: The Ministry of Agriculture
Project implementation period. October 1999-September 2004
For Guarantees
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlyingfinancing:
Ternis of
financing:
Principal amount (US$in)
Final m1aturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee:             []   Yes               []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimatedfinancing cost or maturity with guarantee:
OSD PCD Form: July 30. 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Three complete dam failures occurred in Armenia in 1974, 1979 and 1994 respectively. Considering the
approximate number of dams existing in Armenia in those years, the percentage of failures (number of
failures/ number of existing dams) can be estimated in the order of 2.1% (1974), 3.5% (1979' md 3.9%
(1994). Two aspects are of concern: (a) the values are considerably higher than the world-average value
of 0.5% for dams built after 1951 (ICOLD); (b) the percentage values show an increasing trend. From
1994 to 1998, six significant dam-related accidents occurred that might have as well led to complete dam
failure. All reported accidents could have been avoided if proper surveillance and O&M were in place.
Such observations suggest that other failures cannot be ruled out if the situation of dam safety in Armenia
is allowed to remain out of control. Considering that no dam is reported to have a functioning
instrumentation system and that country-wide around 460,000 people are at risk, the situation should be
regarded as an emergency.
In light of this situation, the primary objective of the project is to protect the population and thesocio-
economic infrastructure down- stream of the dams facing the highest risk of failure. Achieving this
objective will also enhance the sustainability of darn-based economic activities in Armenia. Progress
towards the project objective would be measured in terms of: (i) the reduction of the risk, related to dam
failure, to socially acceptable levels for 360,000 people currently living under threat of high probability
of failure of the riskiest 20 dams; and (ii) the improvement of the risk profile for the totality of the dam
system in Armenia (as indicated in annex 2).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy fCAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number. 16988-AM    Date of lates! CAS discussion. August 26, 1997
The Bank's main country assistance goal in the agricultural sector as indicated in the CAS is to facilitate
private sector development by helping the Government address basic infrastructure and institutional
constraints. This goal translates into supporting critical investments to (i) rehabilitate the irrigation
infrastructure; and (ii) create the enabling conditions for greater private sector participation in the
management, maintenance, and further development of that infrastructure. With dams supplying over
25% of the irrigation water, 10% of the domestic water supply, and 20% of the power generation, their
structural integrity is of great importance to the well being of the population as a whole, and of critical
importance to those people living downstream of unsafe dams.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Because of its heavy reliance on irrigation, many important issues facing Armenian agriculture are water
related. These include: (i) irrigation system inefficiency due to deterioration of the water storage and
conveyance infrastructure; (ii) high cost of irrigation due to heavy reliance on energy intensive pumping;
(iii) excessive reliance of the system on limited budgetary allocations for O&M combined with limited
user participation in the management of the system and in contributing to financing the cost of required
O&M, and (iv) ineffective institutional set-up for operating and maintaining the system. The persistence
of these issues over time led to extensive deterioration of the irrigation, drainage and dam infrastructure.
While continuing attempts are being made by Government to address these issues, limited success has
been achieved to-date due to limited expenditures on system maintenance compounded by, as yet, an
inconsistent strategy for adapting the institutions responsible for managing the water supply- system to



Page 3
the realities and requirements of a private sector controlled agriculture.  Recently the Government
initiated the preparation of a Water Resources Maniagement Plan to help assess these other cross-sector
issues.
To address these issues, the Government adopted a strategy aimied at the rehabilitation of' the irrigation
system along with the creation of the necessary conditions to ensure its susatinahility. [his strategy is at
an early stage of implementation, and some of its critical elements, particularly on the instititiollal side
are still being defined. 'I'he approach to the physical rehabilitation of the infrastructure and to reducinig
the cost of irrigation water delivery has been clearly detined in the context of' thc on-goinig Irrigation
Rehabilitationi Project.  A serious and successful attempt is also underway to create hlie cnabling
conditionis for user participation in the managemiient ot' thc irrigationi inf'rastrticture al the tertiary lcvcl.
T'he Government is yet to decide, however, on the appropriate institutional arrangemilenit for operating and
mainitaininig the infrastructure above the tertiary level. An institutional review of tlie system-wi(le ( )&M
function (including dams, water conveyanice system. and drainage) is underway. 'I'lic (iovcrilmcnt has
also adopted a plan for complete O&M cost recovery by 2,005.
3. &'ector issues lo he addresse(d hy the project cand sia  wlegc choices.:
'I'he project was initially definied as a componcint of 'a more compreihensive programii aimied at a(ldressinlg
all issues listed abovc in the context of the Irrigation Development Project (DP). 13ecaLIse of' potential.
catastrophiic consequenices of dam  failtire, however, the Governiment decided to give priority to
addressing the dam  safe'ty issulC by proceedinig with thlc dam compoilenit as a separate pr'oject on anl
cmergeincy basis. 'this decision docs not, howevcr, a'lect the (iGovernment's inteiitioni to address the
above issues in the conitext ol'thc IP)l', withi I;il provision hbeiig niade for addressing all issues rclatcd to
dam  rchabilitation, operationl and maintcnance unlder the l )am Sallty ProJect (I)SP). In partiCUlar thIC
DSP' will provide for upgradinLg the institutional capability lfor moiioitoring ilic state of' all dams and lofo
cnstirinig preparedness and timely iniervcitionis to allow For their sustainable and safc usc in conniLiIction
witlh other in frastruicturc to be rehahilitate(l and othier (O)&M institutions to he strengthienicd unider the I 1)'.
Durinig project preparation, preliminary investigationis were undertaken on all dams to assess the actual
state of dam structures and the associated level of risk of' failurc. On that basis, and keeping inl miid the
resourcc constraints, the Government made the strategic chioice to conccitrate immediatc efforts on 20
priority irrigation dams identified as potentially most dangerous. The remaininlg 54 irrigation damills
(generally of smaller size) and 6 cncrgy dams will not, however, be neglected in the coursc of'
implementationi of the l)SP. 'I'lhy will be the sub ject of'close monitorinlg, firtlher technical investigations
as required, and possible intcrvenitioni in case of cmergenicy. Imcrgency preparedness plans will also bc
developed and adopted as an integral part ol' thc operation and maiiteinance plan for each dam. larly
warning systems will be provided in thiose situations whele traditional warning methods may he
inefficient.
The DSP will also provide for strcngthelning the instituitionial capability of the Dam  Maintenance
Enterprise (DME) to meet the safety rcquiremeicnts of' all dams, including the energy dams. A specific
program was agreed with Governmlient oni lhow to strengthieni DME in the course of the implementation of
the DSP. In addition, it was agreed that this programii will he reviewed and adjusted, as required, in light
of the findings of the overall institutionial reforml program  to be defined and agreed between the
Governmenit and the Bank in the context of the institutional audit of the O&M function which is expected
to be completed by September, 1999. This institutional strengthening will include the development of an
effective national system for monitoring dam safety, and for maintaining a constant state of preparedness
which will allow a timely response to potential emergencies.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for detailed description ):
The project will constitute a five-year program  for improving the safety of 20 priority dams, and for
establishing an effective system for monitoring the safety of all dams in Armienia. Thie project is based
on an optimized implementation program  composed of a mix of both structural and non-structural
measures. Structural measures are the rehabilitation works proper. Such works require relatively long
construction times and represent the greatest part of the cost of the program. Non-structural dam safety
measures include: (a) instrumentation and monitoring devices, (b) Operation and Maintenianice (O&M)
Plans;  (c)  Emergency  Preparedness  Plans  (EPP):  (d)  Early  Warning  Systems:  and  (e)
Telecommunications.  The technique used for optimizing the implementationi program  is the Risk
Reduction Profile which is described in annex 2. Non-structural measures can be implemented more
rapidly and at a much lower cost than the structural ones. The former are not a substitute for the latter.
rather it is through the balancing of the two types of measures that a souLid dam  safety program  is
implemented. Non-structural measures also play a fundamental role in assurinig sustainiahility of the
rehabilitation works. The project will have three comilponienlts:
Component                  Category      Costs, including    2(       IDA        % of IDA
contingencies and   Total   financing    financinsg
taves (USSM)              (USSM)
A. Rehabilitation of 20 irrigation dams:
A. 1. Design and supervision of works    Consulting        1.3          4.         1.3         /00
Servtces
A.2. Rehabilitation Works          C(ivil Works           20.7          68.3      /7.6          85
B. Dam safety sustainabilitv:
B 1. Dam Safety Plans              (Consulting            0.2           0. 7      0.2          / 00
Services
B2. Darn Safety Site Installations  Equipmnent             1 7          5.5        1.6          93
Civil Works
B3. Sirengthening DME               Equipmtent            3.0                     2.3           76
Rec urrent
Cost
B4. Investigation and EmergencY     Civil Works           2.4           8.1       2.2           90
Repair Fund                         Consulling
Services
C. Project management:              Equipment              1.0          3.3       0.9           85
Consulting
Services
__________Total  30.3     100.0      26.7         87.9



Page 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
Provisions are made under the project in support of measures that would (i) directly enhance the
capability of the DME to allow it to effectively assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance
of the dams rehabilitated under the project, as well as to monitor the safety status of all dams in the
country; and (ii) ensure adequate funding for required O&M activities during the project period and
thereafter. In addition, the project will enhance the effectiveness of policy and institutional interventions
initiated under other projects to promote the sustainability of irrigated agriculture and the institutions
serving it. In the context of the preparation of the proposed IDP, the Government is undertaking a
comprehensive review of the current arrangements for O&M of the irrigation system, including the dams.
The findings of that review will provide the basis for strengthening/amending, if proven necessary. the
measures to be undertaken under this project to strengthen the DME. In this manner, all O&M reform
measures under the DSP will be closely coordinated with those to be introduced under the IDP to
strengthen the O&M function for the totality of the water conveyance and drainage infrastructure.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project Area:
The project is practically national in scope as the 20 dams to be rehabilitated are located in 9 out of the 10
Marzes (Regions). In fact the geographical scope of the project impact extends beyond the territory of
Armenia as 3 of these dams are close to the border with Azerbaijan. The area which could potentially be
affected by floods resulting from dam failure is estimated at close to 680sqkm. Irrigation of up to 68,000
ha (34 per cent of the irrigated area in Armenia) could be partly or wholly undermined in case of dam
failure and would directly benefit from the rehabilitation of the dams as a result of a more reliable
irrigation water supply.
Target Population:
On the Armenia side alone, about 360,000 people living downstream of the 20 dams to be rehabilitated
under the project face the risk of dam failure. The number of people who could potentially be affected in
Azerbaijan is not known, but is thought to be substantial, particularly in the case of the dams located near
the border.
Project Benefits:
This is an emergency type project aimed at addressing severe safety risks for a population of close to
360,000 people living downstream of major dams. The primary direct benefits from project intervention
will be the reduction in the risk of dam failure - currently considered to be very high by international
standards - that would affect the population and economic assets downstream. In addition, the project
will contribute to building an institutional capability for operation and maintenance of the irrigation
infrastructure. The project will also have secondary benefits which are important to the economy. It will
help secure the dams' productive function in improving the reliability of water supply for over 68,000 ha
of irrigated agriculture, for fisheries, and for domestic water supply to about 170,000 people.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period:
Project implementation is anticipated to take five years (from October 1, 1999 to September 30, 2004).
On that basis, the credit closing date is expected to be March 31, 2005.



Page 6
Executing Agencies and Implementation Arrangements.
Overall project management will be the responsibility of the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
currently in charge of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. Specifically, the PIU will be responsible for
the co-ordination of all project interventions, and for providing the necessary support services
(procurement of goods and services, financial control, monitoring of project activities, preparation of
annual work plans, and reporting on status of project implementation). While PIU will, at the onset of the
project, be responsible for the supervision of construction activities, this function will be progressively
taken over by the DME, as the latter develops the capability to manage that function. To that end, the
project provides for strengthening the institutional capability of DME and for equipping its central and
field offices to allow them to take over, by the third year of the project, full responsibility for overseeing
the actual implementation of project activities contracted out, performing quality control, developing and
executing dam specific monitoring, operation, and maintenance plans, and ensuring that emergency
warning systems are operational. The project will finance the incremental cost of operation of the PIU
and the DME, including the required institutional and manpower strengthening. In addition, the PIU will
retain the services of an experienced internationally recruited dam safety specialist who will work with
PIU supervision engineers to undertake, twice a year, an independent review of the scope and quality of
the dam safety programs, and on that basis, advise PIU, DME and IDA on any necessary improvements.
Another international expert in dam design management will assist the PIU in the initial part of the
project to ensure compliance with the design schedule.
Project Oversight.
The PIU will continue to work under the leadership of the existing Project Management Board (PMB)
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements.
The Finance Division of PIU was reviewed by a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist who
concluded that the PIU has adequate and competent staff, satisfactory accounting systems and software
supported by a simple but functional operational manual and that the internal control procedures in place
are generally satisfactory. The PIU will need one additional staff to help handle the increased volume of
transactions when the operations under the new Dam Safety Project commence towards the end of 1999.
The PIU management is fully aware of the need to keep the Finance Division adequately staffed; it has
recently added a junior accountant to the Division and provided the assurance that the additional staff will
be recruited in time to provide the necessary support under the Dam Safety Project.
The appraisal mission has discussed and explained in detail to the financial staff of the PIU and its
auditors, the Bank's new procedures for disbursements against the quarterly Project Monitoring Reports
(PMRs), as required under the LACI Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual of February
1999. The PIU has the required capabilities to generate the PMRs in the format and with the contents as
required by the Bank. However, in order to make the transition to the new systems as smooth as possible,
the PIU has requested: (i) that the DSP commence disbursements under the traditional method (i.e.,
periodic replenishments of Special Account via SOEs) and remain on this method for the first three to
four quarters after the project becomes effective; (ii) Commencing with the quarter ended June 30, 1999
and essentially as a learning exercise for preparing PMRs, the PIU will begin submitting the PMRs for
the ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation project, for review, comments and further modifications as agreed
between the Bank and the PIU. It is expected that with this plan of action, and assuming the Dam Safety
Project becomes effective during the last quarter of 1999, the Dam Safety Project should be able to switch
to PMR-based disbursements at the latest by October 1, 2000 based on the PMRs for the quarter ended



Page 7
September 30, 2000. The financial staff of the PIU (and the auditors) have fully understood the 12
Tables (6 for financial control, 4 for Procurement Management and two for Physical Project Progress),
which will constitute the quarterly PMRs. The financial unit of PIU will need to coordinate with the
procurement unit to complete the four Procurement Tables. The Bank Project Team will assist the PIU in
designing an appropriate format for the Output Monitoring Report (in line with the Table 2-A and/or 2-B
of the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual of February 1999).
As part of the review of financial management of the PIU. the mission reviewed the 1997 audit of IRP
(by HIYAUDIT). While the auditors provided an unqualified opinion and raised no significant financial
management issues, the quality of the audit report was poor as it failed to cover important areas such as
adequacy of internal controls and did not provide clear recommendations on improvements of systems
and procedures. The PIU has since changed its auditors for IRP (for 1998 and 1999 audits) to be
executed by an international firm, Amyot Exco Armenia (part of the Grant Thornton International
Group). The firm had audited the 1995 and 1996 accounts of IRP and is also the present auditors of
about eight other Bank financed projects in Armenia.
The Ministry of Agriculture indicated their intention to appoint the auditors of the Dam Safety Project by
December 31, 1999. The Bank would agree to this when the PIU management makes a formal request in
this regard, under audit TORs acceptable to the Bank. All other usual arrangements regarding audit will
continue to apply to this project (i.e., audit report to be submitted within six months of end of each fiscal
year, the cost of audits to be financed under the Credit).
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements and Reporting.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established under the IRP and reporting to the PMB will be
responsible for monitoring project inputs, outputs, and impact. This unit will prepare quarterly progress
reports which will include information, analysis, and recommendations on: (i) progress in the execution
of various elements of the agreed work program, including institutional development; (ii) procurement;
(iii) expenditures; (iv) difficulties encountered in the course of project implementation, proposed
solutions or required assistance; (v) updated project cost estimates, procurement plan, and
implementation schedule; and (vi) updated estimates of performance indicators. An annual work plan and
the associated budget will be prepared and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each project year. A
project implementation completion report will be prepared within six months of project completion.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
The project was initially conceived as a component of a proposed Irrigation Development Project. As a
result of the initial field investigations, however, the Government came to the conclusion that
enhancement of the safety of dams should be addressed urgently because: (i) many dams have
deteriorated to the point where dam safety enhancement has become a prerequisite for any sustainable
intervention in the development of water resources where water supply depends on the performance of
dams; and (ii) under the current state of many dams, there is a real threat for major loss of life and
economic assets in case of dam failure. Accordingly, the Government decided to advance the
implementation of the dam safety component as a stand-alone emergency type project to precede
complementary interventions under the proposed Irrigation Development Project, currently under
preparation.



Page 8
The following technical alternatives have been considered:
*  The option of basing the design of dam safety enhancement interventions on the basis of the Probable
Maximum Flood (PMF) standard was rejected. The return period of the floods for sizing the
spillways has been fixed at 1 :10,000 years. This is considered acceptable in view of the fact that
Armenian reservoirs are at their full capacity level for less than a month each year and much of the
run-off is from snow melting. The PMF option would not be socially equitable either, as it would
lead to a concentration of all potentially available resources on two or three dams, thus leaving most
of the vulnerable population completely unprotected. The solution adopted by the Government will,
thus, extend a high level of protection to the people currently most exposed to a high risk of dam
failure.
*  Initial stability analysis under seismic loading was based on the pseudo-static approach which is
internationally considered to be no longer acceptable. This prompted the preparation team to
undertake further refinement of the stability analysis using a more representative dynamic approach
based on the Krasnikov method (FSU version of the Newmark method). Based on the period of
record and on the past performance of dams, the seismic coefficients fixed by Armenian norms are
believed to provide an adequate safety level.
*  The alternative of limiting project interventions to the rehabilitation of 20 priority dams only was
rejected in favour of providing for a program for monitoring the safety of all 80 dams (including the
energy dams) along with the provision for a reserve fund (component B.4) to ensure timely and
effective intervention in case of emergency on any dam other than the 20 being rehabilitated.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                    Project          Latest Supervision Ratings (Bank-
financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Deteriorating Irrigation Infrastructure   Irrigation                S                S
and ineffective water managenment    Rehabilitation Project
Irrigation Development       NA                NA
Project
Lack of credit resources for agro-   Enterprise                     S                S
industry                             Development Projeci
Weak agricultural support services.  Agricultural Reform            S                S
including ruralfinance               Suppori Project
Weak land market.                    Land Titling and              NA               NA
Registration Project
Other development agencies
Weak agricultural support services   Northwest Agricultural        NA          NA
Services Project
(IFAD).
Lack of budgetary resources to fund  Food Security
priority programs in agriculture      Programs (EU)                NA          NA
IP/DO Ratings. HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The main lesson learnt from the Bank supported program in Armenia and in the other FSU countries
relates to the importance that must be given to institutional development as a prerequisite for achieving
sustainability in the development and management of irrigation and drainage infrastructures. Experience
gained in the implementation of successful dam safety projects around the world points to the need for (i)
proper documentation of the pre-project status of dam safety; (ii) careful attention to both structural and
non-structural remedial measures; and (iii) putting in place effective mechanisms for maintaining the
level of safety achieved at the end of the project. Dams and related structures require relatively long lead
times for the preparation and the implementation of rehabilitation works. At the other end, a dam safety
program is, by definition, of an emergency nature and this is particularly true in the case of Armenia.
Bank supported projects have also demonstrated that long times may be necessary for reaching agreement



Page 10
on key design criteria (e.g., design floods or design earthquake). Another important lesson from these
projects is that, at the start of the project, design for remedial works for at least the first year should be
completed. These lessons have been fu!0y reflected in the design of the DSP in Armenia.
4. Indications of borrower comntitment and ownership:
Senior officials expressed on several occasions Government interest in this project because of the high
risk many dams pose to the population downstream, and because of the grave disruption to socio-
economic conditions a dam failure would cause in the affected area. Government commitment is
reflected in their decision to give implementation of dam safety measures top priority among all
interventions being planned for implementation under a proposed Irrigation Development Project. The
Ministry of Agriculture has allocated the necessary resources for preparation of the DSP and initiated the
process to introduce it as a line item in the Government budget. Another indicator of Government
commitment to the project is their pledge to finance up to 15% of project costs from internal budgetary
resources.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There are not very many stand alone dam safety projects in developing countries world-wide and the
Bank is involved in some of the most important ones (India, Indonesia). The Bank is also involved in a
number of projects which include, to a higher or lower extent, a dam safety component (Aral Sea basin,
Albania, Tarim Basin 11 and Guangzhong in China, Kyrgyz Republic, Mexico, Vietnam, Ecuador). Bank
support will help in identifying and introducing best practices in: (i) assessing the hazards of dam failure,
prioritising dams for rehabilitation, and selecting appropriate approaches to the actual rehabilitation of
dams; (ii) monitoring of dam safety and establishing a system for emergency preparedness; (iii) the
development and introduction of sustainable O&M systems; and (iv) the creation of the necessary
conditions for increasing beneficiaries' interest and participation in securing the safety of dams.
E: Summary of Project Analysis
1. Economic
[] Summarize issues below (e.g., fiscal impact, pricing distortions)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)  [x] None
Economnic evaluation methodology:
[X1 Cost-benefit       [ ICost effectiveness    [ Other [specify]
It is difficult to estimate the probability of failure of any given dam. The historical probability of failure
of dams in Armenia was examined for the past forty years. The conclusion was that, during any twenty
year period, one in twenty dams has failed. More importantly, the probability of failure has doubled over
the past twenty years. On that basis, the following potential losses resulting from dam breaks on each of
the twenty dams covered by the project were calculated: reduction in net farm income as a result of loss
of access to irrigation water, flood damages to household structures and other household assets, and flood
damages to other non-household assets (roads, irrigation structures, other public infrastructure and
enterprises).
The total value of these potential losses is then weighted by the reduction in the annual probability for
dam failure in the system as a whole on a yearly basis to yield a stream of values over a twenty year
period. Since the project is designed to reduce the risk level of dam failure to socially acceptable levels
(ten times less than current levels), the forestalled losses are then accordingly treated as project benefits,
without inclusion of human life at risk. The benefits are set off against the project investment costs, and



Page I 1
the economic rate of return is then calculated. The base level ERR for the project is 32% (further detail
in Annex 4). Sensitivity analysis was performed which showed that the threshold level of ERR of 15% is
met when the probability of dam break in the system over twenty years is set at 3.6% (which is well
below historically observed levels).
2. Financial
f] Summarize issues below
[] To be defined (indicate how issues wvill be identified)  [x ] None
3. Technical
[X] Summarize issues below (e.g., appropriate technology, costing)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)  []None
Most of the 20 dams proposed for rehabilitation were visited by FAO/CP preparation and IDA pre-
appraisal teams. The urgency of the proposed repair and rehabilitation works was confirmed. During
project preparation, emphasis was placed on ensuring that the limited resources available for remedial
works are used in the most efficient manner possible and on dams which present, the highest risk of
failure. Hazard and risk classification, including flood handling capability, and a group order ranking of
dam safety was undertaken for all large dams. Similar investigations will be continued on other dams
during project implementation. In addition. physical simulation will be done to ensure proper
reconstruction of spillways and effective monitoring of the operation of structures.  Well defined
operational and management plans will also be introduced for all rehabilitated dams. While detailed
designs are ready for the structures to be rehabilitated during the first year, detailed designs for other
structures will be done in the course of project implementation following detailed investigations for
which provision is made under the project. Cost estimates were done on the basis of actual civil works
contracts awarded by PIU at the time of project preparation. Physical contingencies of 5 - 15 per cent
were included in the cost estimates for civil works and 5 per cent for equipment. Price contingencies were
based on annual inflation rates as estimated by the Bank ( 6.0 - 9.6 for local costs and 2.5 per cent for
foreign cost). In addition, given the level of uncertainty associated with dam rehabilitation, project
implementation has to be approached with a reasonable level of flexibility to be able to adjust for any
possible cost overruns or under-runs by respectively reducing or increasing the number of dams
considered for rehabilitation.
4. Institutional   [X] Summarize issues below (e.g., project management, ME capacity, administrative
regulations) [] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [ None
Although no major issue is foreseen with regard to the local capacity to design, implement, manage,
monitor and evaluate the project interventions and their impact, executing agencies are handicapped by
very low salaries, limited operational budgets, inadequate mobility, and very limited exposure to
international experience. The project provides for filling these gaps during the project period and for the
creation of the enabling conditions for Government to ensure proper operation of the dam infrastructure
thereafter. The institutional reforms needed to improve the longer term O&M of the infrastructure
supported by the project will be part of the project and the necessary reforms for the DME will be
introduced on the basis of the institutional review of the management and O&M arrangements for the
irrigation infrastructure as a whole. Training activities and study tours planned under the project will help
expose project staff to international experience and, thus, enhance their knowledge and infrastructure
management skills. Exposure to international practice will also be available through the
interaction with the 2 international dam specialists who will be recruited as independent experts
during the course of the project.



Page 12
5. Social
[] Summarize issues below (e.g., significant social risks, and ability to target low income and other
vulnerable groups)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [l xNone
No negative social impact is foreseen. Enhancing the safety of dams will have a favorable impact on the
population as a whole. Preparation of the Emergency Preparedness Plans will entail public participation
together with the training to support the introduction of the project funded early warning systems. This
will contribute to increase awareness and participation in the population.
6. Environmental
a. Environmental issues.
fX] Summarize issues below (distinguish between major issues and less important ones)
[] To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) f] None
Major: None
The nature of the works to be supported under the project are primarily of the delayed O&M type. In
addition, some work will be needed to correct the design of spillways and outlets and to stabilize the
slopes of a few dams to make them safer. These works will not alter the original capacity of the dams,
nor the quantity and quality of the water flow. In those cases where safety considerations will call for
enlarging the discharge facilities, the peak flood downstream will remain lower than the flood intensity in
the natural conditions of the rivers (without the dams), and lower than the flood flows with the dams in
their current state.
Other: The only foreseeable environmental issues faced by the project are the ones associated with the
management and disposal of excavated materials and construction concrete rubble and debris and the use
of quarries.
The positive impacts of the project are expected to be significant. Over 350,000 persons (not including
riparians) will benefit from better protection and safety after completion of the project. The water
resource and dam-based socio-economic activities and infrastructures downstream will also be better
protected. Existing erosion will be reduced and sedimentation will be analyzed, controlled and managed.
Dam operations will be better managed and sustained (reducing the need for new dams and for more
impacts on the environment). Emergency warning systems will be improved and the O&M function will
be strengthened.
A preliminary Environmental Management Plan (EMP) specifying the mitigation measures required has
been prepared and agreed between Government and IDA. All works contracts envisaged under the
project will conform to the requirements under this plan. In addition, the Government agreed to fully take
into consideration the recommendations of the IDP Environmental Assessment (expected to be ready in
September/October, 1999) in dealing with any DSP environmental issues. The EMP will be finalized in
the light of the IDP Environmental Assessment.
b. Environmental category:    []   A    [XI  B    []   C
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating: The project has been rated as environmental category "B"
taking into account the nature of the works (rehabilitation/reconstruction of existing infrastructures), the
expected environmental benefits, and the need for appropriate disposal of excavated materials and
construction rubbles/debris, and for appropriate use of quarries. The physical works supported by the
project are all remedial works resulting in limited local physical disturbance, in contrast with new large-



Page 13
scale construction.
The only foreseeable environmental issue faced by the project is the one associated with the disposal of
the ;epair construction materials/debris. An Environmental Management Plan specifying the mitigation
measures required has been prepared and agreed between Government and IDA. All works contracts
envisaged under the project will conform to the requirements under this plan.
d. Status of Category A assessment:   EA start-up date: N/A
Date offirst EA draft:
Current status:
e. Proposed actions:
f Status of any other environmental studies:
g. Local groups and NGOs consulted. (List names).
h. Resettlement
[] Summarize issues below (e.g., resettlement planning, and compensation)
[ITo be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)   [x]N/A
Remedial works on the dams are not expected to necessitate the acquisition of additional land for new
rights-of-way, and therefore the issue of resettlement of people is not expected to arise.
i. Borrower permission to release EA:  [] Yes  f] No  [X] N/A
j. Other remarks:
7. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
[ IName and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced
[X] Not applicable (describe why participatory approach not applicable with these groups)
The planned rehabilitation program addresses safety concerns known to the beneficiaries as a result of the
failure of three dams over the past twenty-five years. The program is, therefore, demand driven. The
people downstream are aware of the potential safety hazard many dams pose to their physical well being
and to their livelihood. They are aware of project objectives and implementation arrangements.
Representatives of local communities have been and will continue to be informed and consulted, as
appropriate, during project implementation.  Priority was given to the design of an Emergency
Preparedness Plan, including an early warning system. Beneficiaries will be informed about the
procedures to follow in case of threat of dam failure and clearly instructed in what to do and where to go
in case of emergency. Provision is also made under the project for a series of workshops to be organized
to facilitate the sharing of ideas between beneficiaries, central and local Government representatives, and
contractors. In addition, water users served through the dams are expected to actively participate through
the Water Users Associations (WUAs) in: (i) organization of WUAs; (ii) the management of water at the
community level (including collection of water fees); and (iii) the design and actual rehabilitation of the
tertiary and quaternary irrigation networks supplied by the dams.
b. Other key stakeholders:
[] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced
[XI Not applicable (describe why participatory approach not applicable with these groups)



Page 14
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
a This project involves (check applicable items):
f] / Indigenous peoples (OD 4.20)         [X]  Riparian water rightsl
(OP 7.50)  (BP 7.50)  'GP 7.50)
[I   Cultural property (OPN 11. 03)       [XI  Financial management (OP 10. 02)          (BP 10. 02)
[XI  Environmental impacts                {X]  Financing of recurrent costs    (OMS 1.21)
(OP 4.01)    (BP 4.01)   (GP 4.01)
[]   Natural habitats                     [X]  Local cost sharing
(OP 4.01)    (BP 4.01)   (GP 4.01)         (OP 6.30)         (BP 6.30)        (GP 6.30)
[I   Gender issues (OP 4.20)              [    Cost-sharing above country three-year average
(GP 6.30)         (OP 6.30)       (BP 6.30j
[]   Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)   [    Retroactive financing above normal limit
(OP 12.10)        (GP 12.10)
[]   NGO involvemnent (GP 14.70)          [    Disputed territory
(OP 7.60)         (BP 7.60)        (GP 7.60)
[XI Other (provide necessary details) Dam Safety (OP 4.37)
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Adequate and regular maintenance of the rehabilitated dams is critical for the sustainability of project
benefits. Such maintenance will require sufficient institutional and financial resources which have not
been readily available over the last few years. The Dam Maintenance Enterprise is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of dams. Their capacity to perform their job depends on allocations from the
state budget and on the revenues they generate from selling water to the Operation and Maintenance
Enterprise which is responsible for the supply of irrigation water to farmers. Arrangements will be
agreed with Government on effective modalities for the DME to be paid by OME at a rate that will ensure
that the maintenance requirements of dams are met, or that any underpayment by OME is met from the
state budget. Provision is also made under the project for strengthening the DME to ensure that they
acquire and maintain the necessary technical and management capability to effectively operate and
maintain the rehabilitated dams. An agreement has been reached with Government under the IRP to
achieve full O&M cost recovery by the year 2005. Assurances to the effect that Government intends to
abide by this time table will be obtained during credit negotiations. To ensure adequate O&M financing
for the dams in the interim period, the project will finance the expected deficit.
'All the darns to be rehabilitated under the project are on international waterways, as defined in OP 7.50. The Bank
has determined, however, that the project would not cause any adverse impact on the quantity and quality of water
to downstream reparians. On that basis the project was exempted from the notification requirement.



Page 15
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I)
Risk                        Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
From Output to Objective
Inadequate resources for O&M                           S        Government committed itself tofull
O&M cost recovery by 2005. The
project willfinance incremental
costs on a declining basis.
From Components to Outputs
Cost overruns during implementation                   M         Cost estimates were based on
careful survey work and on actual
contract cost data. In addition
project design is keptflexible to
allow for the project scope to be
adjusted to the available budget.
Limited in-country construction capability            M         Civil works contracts for many of
the dams are expected to be large
enough to attract international
bidders.
Insufficient management and construction                        The project provides for the
supervision capability in DME                                   institutional strengthening of DME.
In the interim period PIU will
assume responsibility for overall
project management andfor
construction supervision. DME will
lake over this responsibility
progressively.
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System): None
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
I.    PIU will select a dam  safety specialist with proven international experience, under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, for a cumulative assignment of about 6 months over the five-year project
period to undertake periodic visits of about two weeks each to (i) undertake reviews of the rehabilitation
program twice a year; (ii) participate in the continued reassessment of the project methodologies and
approach; and (iii) identify any  implementation   issues and  develop concrete and  practical
recommendations to be proposed for consideration by PIU, DME and IDA to address those issues.
11.   PIU shall: (a) open a Project Account in a Commercial Bank with an initial deposit in local
currency equivalent to at least $250,000.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]:



Page 16
Condition of credit negotiations ( it has been fulfilled):
Selection by PIU of an internationally selected design management specialist, under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, for a period of 5 months to help (i) oversee the design of the first seven dams; (ii)
prepare a detailed plan for design of the other 13 dams to be rehabilitated, including dam-specific terms
of reference and other documentation required in the bidding process; and (iii) prepare a detailed plan for
technical investigations on the 60 dams which are not the subject of rehabilitation under the project.
Project imiplementation
1.    The PIU will be maintained within the Ministry of Agriculture.
I.   At the onset of each project year (September 15), the PIU will prepare and submit to IDA for
review an annual work plan and the associated budget.
Ill. Government will finalize by October 1. 1999 the Environmental Management Plan in respect of
mitigating measures for the disposal of construction debris and the opening of quarries at dam sites in the
light of the Environmental Assessment expected to be completed in September 1999 and will iicorporate
the recommendations in all civil works contracts.
IV.  On the basis of the findings of the social assessment, the social unit of the PIU will organize
information campaigns to ensure that beneficiaries (i) are given ample opportunity to be involved in the
design and introduction of the Early Warning Systems and the associated Emergency Evacuation Plans;
and (ii) can communicate with DME and contractors in the course of planning rehabilitation works to
minimize the interruption of the flow of irrigation water.
V.   The Project Account will maintain a minimum  balance, through quarterly replenishments
equivalent to $100,000, or such amount as may be agreed by the Association from time to time. The use
of the funds of said Project Account will exclusively be for financing the implementation of the project.
VI.  A Dam Safety Expert will be maintained for all the life of the Project and his recommendations
will be implemented.
VII. Government will monitor and evaluate project implementation and achievement, on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA (Annex 1).
VIII. Government will prepare by December 31, 2001, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a
mid-term progress report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out
a strategy for the timely completion of project implementation. This report will be discussed with IDA by
March 31, 2002 with the aim to agree on any necessary changes in project design and implementation
strategy.
IX. By December 31, 1999, the Government will establish an independent Technical Consultative
Commission on O&M of dams to provide every three years an independent assessment of the state of the
dams and their O&M requirements. This assessment, along with the revenues effectively received by
DME from the sale of irrigation water, will be used as the basis for budgetary allocations to DME over
the following three years. The recommendations of the State Expert Commission will be binding and
fully reflected in the O&M budget of DME.



Page 17
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineeringdesigndocumentsare beingfinalized forthefirsttwodamsand thosefor
an additionalfive dams are expected to be ready in Jutly, 1999. This will allow PIU to float the
tenders in August, 1999 for all the civil works expected to be initiated during thefirst year of the
project.
[XJ The bidding documents for the first year 's rehabilitation program are under preparation
and are expected to he ready, in July, 1999.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan was appraised in March, 1999.
L Compliance with IDA Policies
[X] This project complies wvith all applicable IDA policies with particular reference to OP4.37 (Dam
SafetyV).
fX] The following excepnon to IDA policies was recommended and approved: Excepnon to the
requirement under OP 7. *0 that the other riparian States he notified of projects on international water
ways. This was done on the basis that this project meets the criteria for exemption specified in para. 7 of
BP 7.50.
Task Team Leader: Salem Gafti
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Country Direc



Page 18
Annex ]
Project Design Summary
Armenia: Dam Safety Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance        Monitoring and    CriticalAssumptions
Indicators            Evaluation
Sector related CAS goal:                                               (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Accelerate the growth    1. 1 Decreased         1. 1 Ministry of    Consistent with Bank
andseor                  infastructure bottlenecks  Economic Reforms   Mission
sector
Project Development                                                    (Objective to Goal)
Objective.
To protect the population   1.1 Achievement of the  1.] Ministry of    Government remains
and the socio-economic   Risk Reduction Profile    Agriculture         committed to the
infrastructure down-     envisaged under the                           rehabilitation of
stream of the dams facing   project (Annex 2)                          infrastructure and to its
the highest risk offailure.                                            effective operation and
maintenance.
1.2 Number of people     1.2 Statistics of   Other IDA supported
protected downstream of   Cabinet            projects (IRP, IDP) are
each rehabilitated dam.    department of     successfully
Emergency          implemented.
Situations



Page 19
Outputs:                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
1. Safety and operation of   1.1 Timing of risk   1.1 Risk Reduction   DME gets paidfor
dams improved            reduction of 20 dams     Profile Tabulated    water delivered
progressively reduced as   by PIU          through the dams.
planned
Government makes up
1.2 Summary risk        1.2 PIU and DME   for any shortfall in the
coefficient for each of the   monitoring reports   O&M budget required
20 targeted is                             for the sustained
substantially reduced                      operation of dams
(constructed ion the basis
of main sub-indicators)
1.3 Number of Dams for   1.3 DME reports
which Safety equipment is
fully installed
1.4 Number of villages  1. 4 Cabinet
between those under     Department for
threat of inundation for    emergency
which emergency warning  situations
system is installed
2. DME strengthened in    2.1 DME equipped with    2.1 PIU and DME   DME properly
dam safety monitoring,   dam safety monitoring    monitoring reports  equipped, it hires and
construction supervision,   equipment and with plant                 retains qualified
and dam operation and    for emergency repair.                       personnel and gets a
maintenance                                                          full set of information
2.2 Number of dams for    2.2 DME          on the state of
which program and       monitoring report.  remaining dams..
schedule of inspection and
evaluation (executed by
consultants) is formulated
and implemented
2.3 Number of DME staff  2.3 DME
who have undergone      monitoring report.
training in emergency
preparedness and dam
operation procedures.



Page 20
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget/or each                        (Components to
components:               component)                                     Outputs)
.. Rehabilitation of 20    1. US$ 22 million         Progress reports,    No cost overrun during
primary irrigation dams:                             procurement         implementation.
1.1 Rehabilitation works    1.1 USS 20.7 million     reports,
1.2 Design and supervision    1.2 US$ 1.3 million   disbursement         Necessary budget
reports prepared by  allocation by
2. Dam safety sustainability.-  2. US$ 7.4 million   PIU.                Government.
2.1 Dam Safety Plans      2.1 US$ 0.2 million                            Project works will
2.2 Dam Safety Site       2.2 US$ 1.7 million                            aract wores wll
Installations                                                            attract the interest of
2.3 Strengthening DME      2.3 US$ 3. 0 million                          sufficient local and
2.4 Investigation and      2.4 US$ 2.5 million                           foreign contractors.
Emergency Repair
PIU and DME will
3. Project management     3. US$ 1.0 million                             retain qualified staff



Page 21
Annex 2
Dam Safety Project
Project Description
General
There is a total of 80 existing dams in the Republic of Armenia with a total capacity of about 1400 Mm3.
Three additional dams are under construction. The operating dams can be divided in the following
categories: (i) 20 priority irrigation dams; (ii) 50 other irrigation dams; (iii) 6 hydropower dams; (iv) 3
irrigation/domestic water supply dams, and (v) one irrigation recreation dam. The seventy three dams
used for irrigation have a capacity of about 1250 Mm3.
The peak decade for construction of the main irrigation dams was 1960 to 1970 although several were
constructed between 1970 and 1990. The break-up of the Former Soviet Union in 1991 resulted in a
serious reduction in budget which basically stopped the maintenance activities of the irrigation
infrastructure. This has resulted in the deterioration of the irrigation dams and related safety problems.
In addition to the maintenance related safety issues, several dams suffer from design deficiencies, such as
inadequate spillway capacities. A further concern is the stability of the dams under seismic conditions
since the Republic of Armenia is prone to sizeable earthquakes (the Spitak earthquake in December 1988
had a magnitude of 6.9 resulted in about 25,000 victims).
Prior to 1982, the operation and maintenance of all reservoirs was the responsibility of regional Operation
and Maintenance Enterprises (OME). For both institutional and budgetary reasons, these OMEs were
unable to maintain the technical integrity of the dams. As a result, the Government decided in 1993 to
establish a Dam Maintenance Enterprise (DME) to be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the 14 biggest (and potentially most dangerous) irrigation reservoirs. In 1998, responsibility for the fifty
four other irrigation reservoirs was transferred to DME. This left the four biggest reservoirs (Akhuryan,
Aparan, Azat, and Jogaz) under the responsibility of a separate specialized enterprise, while the Ketchut
reservoir remains the responsibility of the Arpa-Sevan Tunnel regional OME. Technical inspections
carried out in 1994 by international experts on 18 dams revealed that most of these dams pose a serious
safety hazard to the populations downstream. Subsequent technical investigations revealed that, by
international standards, most dams in Armenia do not meet acceptable safety norms.
Project components
The project will have three components: (i) Rehabilitation of 20 primary irrigation dams; (ii) Dam safety
sustainability; and (iii). Project management, which are described in detail in the present annex, following
a presentation of the basic project criteria.
Emergency nature of the project
The safety conditions of the dams involved in the project are very serious, probably alarming. The
reported deficiencies (i) insufficient stability of dam bodies; (ii) inadequate spillway capacities; (iii)
inadequate bottom outlet capacities; (iv) leakage and internal erosion of dam bodies; (v) settlements of
dam crests] represent the most dangerous limit states in the case histories of failures of embankment
dams2. All dams included in the project are embankment dams.
2 Re: ICOLD (International Commission on Large Dams) Bulletin 99 "Dam Failures- Statistical Analysis"



Page 22
Three significant dam failures have already occurred in Armenia as detailed in table 1.
Table 1: RECENT DAM FAILURES IN ARMENIA
Dam        Type       Failureyear    Age of dam      Cause offailure and consequences
Agarak     Earthfil   1974            20years       Leakage, sloughing, crest settlement and
overtopping. One villageflooded
Marmarik  Earthfill   1978             End of        Excessive pore pressure build-up
construction   Reservoir empty.
Artik      Earthfill   1994            15 years      Progressive failure of u/s slope and
consequent overtopping. Two villages
flooded, 2 casualties, many losses.
Considering the years in which the failures occurred and the number of dams existing in Armenia in those
periods, the percentage of failures (number of failures/number of existing dams) can be estimated in the
order of 2.1% (1974), 3.5% (1978) and 3.9% (1994). Two aspects are of concern:
(i)    the percentage values show an increasing trend;
(ii)   the values are considerably higher than the value of 0.5% found by ICOLD3 worldwide for
dams built after 1951;
(iii)   in all cases, a proper surveillance could have detected the incipient distress in time to avoid
failure.
In addition to complete failures, several significant accidents have been reported at dam sites at an
accelerated rate in very recent periods. Table 2 lists them.
Table 2: SIGNIFICANT ACCIDENTS ASSOCIATED WITH DAMS
Year      Dam        Age    Location Of   Description Of Accident | Consequences And RemedialActions
(Years)    Distress    __                     |
1989     Sovietashen    24    Dam body   |Leakagefrom dam body at Spillway capacity increased by
Ihigh level.             demolition offront wall. Reservoir
, I '. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lowered.
[1991    Sarnarpur      24    Conduit       IErosion of dam body inside Irrigation stopped 2 months. Repaired
underneath    conduit                 by backfilling conduit with concrete.
I                   x__ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  jdam   body  'I                         _   _
1991     Spandaryan     2    Pressure tunnel1 Water outburst > 5Om3/s   Town of Sisian partly flooded
1993    lKarnout        20   !Dam body      Crest settlement 1.2 m   Spillway capacity increased by
demolition offront wali. Reservoir
1994     Aparan         28    Bottom outlet  Steel lining dislocation  loegateon stopped I mond
tunnel        because of poor steel-   Rehabilitated under !RP.
concrete contact
1996     Joghaz         30    Conduit       Erosion of dam body inside Irrigation stopped. Repaired by
underneath   (conduit                 grouting.
dam body
1997     David-Bek      7    Irrigation     Outlet valve destroyed by  Irrigation stopped I month. Repaired.
intake       I ice swelling inside steel
pipelineI
1998     Hazat          22    Bottom outlet tErosion of in situ soil inside iRepaired by grouting.
tunnel       jtunnel, tunnel lining locally
ldestroyed
Re: Bulletin 99 (1995) "Dam Failures- Statistical Analysis"



Page 23
1998     Sovietashen    33   (Spillway      Soil erosion into drainage  Underpinning by grouting operations.
gallery underneath spillway IConcrete cover to eroded channel
channel. Progressive    lwaterway.
settlement of channel lining
on clayfoundations.                                      I
1998     Aygezor        24    Conduit       Erosion ofdam body inside Repaired by grouting. D/s population
underneath   Iconduit                levacuatedfor I month.
,____   ___dam body
Evidence suggests that other failures cannot be ruled out if the situation of dam safety in Armenia is
allowed to remain out of control.  Considering that no dam  is reported to have a functioning
instrumentation system and that around 460,000 people are at risk, the situatioki should be regarded as an
emergency.
Matching Emergency with Lead Times
Dams are special structures, each of them requiring ad hoc consideration. Rehabilitation of dams which
have been in operation for several years poses the additional difficulty of accessing design and operation
records that are often lost or not available in sufficient detail. All this leads to relatively long lead times
for the preparation and the implementation of rehabilitation works. At the other end, a dam safety
program is, by definition, of an emergency nature and this is particularly true in the case of Armenia.
Bank's experience with dam safety programs in other countries4 has shown that this disconnect is
constantly present. Therefore matching emergency with the relatively long lead times required for
rehabilitation works is a key issue in dam safety programs.
International experience has shown that this problem can be efficiently mitigated by the optimization of
an implementation program based on a mix of both structural and non-structural measures.
Structural measures are the rehabilitation works proper. They include works on the dam body such as
rehabilitation or enlargement of the water discharge facilities, and sealing.
Non-structural dam safety measures include5:
a) Instrumentation and monitoring devices
b) Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan
c) Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP)
d) Early Waming System
e) Telecommunications
The technique used for optimizing the implementation program is the Risk Reduction Profile which is
described later. Non-structural measures can be implemented more rapidly and at a much lower cost than
the structural ones. The former are not a substitute for the latter, rather it is through the balancing of the
two type of measures that a sound dam safety program is implemented. Non-structural measures also
play a fundamental role in assuring sustainability of the rehabilitation works.
4 Notably India (Credit.....) and Indonesia (Loan.
5 In the Armenia DSP, service buildings, workshops and emergency energy supply have also been included under the non-structural
measures.



Page 24
Structural measures
Most of the dams in Armenia are of the embankment type and Armnenia is a seismically active territory.
These two circumstances draw the attention on two main safety aspects6:
i. discharge capacity of the spillway7,
ii. embankment stability under dynamic loading.
Return period of the floods for sizing the spillways has been fixed in 1: 10,000 years. This is considered
acceptable in consideration of the fact that Armenian reservoirs are at their full capacity level for less
than a month each year and much of the run-off is from snow melting.
Data on seismicity in Armenia are available over a period of about 2,000 years. The territory is divided in
zones with values of horizontal ground acceleration (kH) varying from 0.2 to 0.4 g. There are three dam
failures on record in Armenia, as shown in Table 1. It is important to note that the three dams were of the
earthfill type and, in all cases, failure was unrelated to dynamic loading. Also none of the other dam-
related accidents (Table 2), can be attributed to seismic actions.
In international practice, annual probabilities ofexceedance in the range of 1:1,000 to 1 :10,000 have been
used. Such probabilities are selected in such a way to provide a safety level consistent with the global past
performance of existing dams, acceptable to the regulator and the public. Based on the record period and
on the past performance of dams, the kH values fixed by Armenian norms are believed to provide an
adequate safety level.
Dynamic stability analysis are carried out by the Krasnikov method8, using kH values giveui by the
norms. Cumulated deformation are compared with the available freeboard9. The analysis will also be
carried out using higher kH values (next category in the norns) to assess sensitivity of associated
deformations. Dams with higher incremental deformnations will be equipped with strong motion,
recording accelerographs. This will permit to ascertain the response of the structure during heavy
shaking and review the design hypothesis correspondingly.
Risk reduction profile
As the basis for starting the process of upgrading the safety of dams, the rehabilitation requirements of 20
primary irrigation dams have been identified and prioritized. For this purpose the Risk Reduction Profile
(RRP) approach has been used in which the overall risk of the whole portfolio of dams is progressively
reduced towards an acceptable, final level. A summary picture of the RRP is presented in Figure 1.
On the vertical axis, the number of dams (DAMS) and the population at risk (PAR) are shown using
different scales. The implementation period is represented on the horizontal axis.
The progressive reduction of the number of risky dams from the initial situation to the end of the project
implementation is shown. The effectiveness of a program in improving dam safety levels can be judged
by the shape of the RRP. Concave profiles are preferred in the sake of early safety improvement, but
6 Other safety aspects addressed by structural measures involve hydraulic steel structures and sealing of zones of
excessive leakage.
7 Overtopping is, by large, the most critical failure mechanism for embankment dams.
' The Krasnikov method is understood to be equivalent to the Newmark method which is commonly used for this
kind of analysis in international practice.
9 The procedure is suitable in the absence of earthquake-induced liquefaction. This is the case for all dams, except
Tavshud dam, for which a liquefaction-potential analysis is warranted.



Page 25
lead times play against this aim. The effect of non-structural measures is evident by comparing the two
profiles shown in Figure 1. The selected program (solid line), based on the anticipation of non-structural
measures, present substantial advantages with respect to the rejected alternative. The latter addressed
structural measures without prioritization of the non-structural ones. It must be pointed out that the
selected implementation plan involves a substantial coordination effort of design activities in the initial
period. To mitigate the risk of non-performance of PIU in this task, an international dam design specialist
will provide technical assistance to PIU over a period of 5 months.
The left-most profile represents the progressive reduction of the total population at risk (PAR). The fast
plunging of the profile reflects the choice to anticipate the rehabilitation of Aparan dam (PAR-I 85,000
people).
Figure 1: RISK REDUCTION PROFILE
1<   .     m    ~- -% _.~~ v~                                   era
19             ...........                     I klM.1  rehabilitated
300000   11
14
13
12
200000 '  10 .     .                              ,   x X           i.  
-8~~Selected program: 1,...,.  ,<   
7  |Population at Risk (PAR)                -i   X
IV1111P  I I11111II  ll i11IT 111-PIfl1i19   '        I' F.'V     I I I  I II I IV 
L X                                m                 2003         200 1
Program sustainability and Performance Indicators
Sustainability of a successful dam safety programs depends on the ability to maintain the level of safety
achieved at the end of the program. Component B of the DSP is entirely devoted to such a purpose. Four
instruments have been used in the design of component B:
(a) dam safety plans, i.e. Operation and Maintenance Plan and Emergency Preparedness Plan;
(b) an international expert on Dam Safety Programs will advise the PIU during the implementation of the
project, he/she will make at least 2 visit each year;
(c) strengthening of the Dam Management Enterprise (DME) to put it in the conditions to take over the
O&M of the rehabilitated dams;
(d) periodicall0 dam safety inspections by an independent technical Consultative Commission to be
established by Government resolution.
0 The frequency of inspections depends on the consequence category of the dam. Tentatively: very high = 5 years;
high = 7 y; low= 10 y.



Page 26
In addition to the above, provision has been made for DME to carry out surveys of reservoir
sedimentation in order to assess the current active storage. Based on visual observations during reservoir
drawdown, and on visual investigations of erosion, accumulation of sediments was recognized as a
problem in at least 6 reservoirs (Tavshud, Khalavar, Sevaberd, Tavouch, Vardakar and Aigedzar).
Procurement of equipment for survey of sediments is foreseen within the DSP. With such equipment,
measurements can be made by surveillance staff on regular basis. Surveys will start at the above
mentioned reservoirs and progressively extended to the others. The operational rules of the reservoirs
should be revised taking into account the residual capacity (after deduction of the silted portion).
Reservoir conservation measuresl I may be identified during the implementation of the DSP and planned
for future implementation.
Indicators will be used during supervision to monitor performance in DSP management. The same
indicators should be retained by the DME for long term O&M of the dams.
Table 3. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Performance indicator                               Measured by
Maintain an updated inventory and hazard classification of all    Number of dams inspected with data
80 dams                                                 included in the inventory
Establish a program of inspections and evaluations of all existing  Program availability, supervision reports
dams and on-going construction (20 dams)
Implementation of rehabilitation works on 20 irrigation dams.    Progress of works compared to construction
program
Risk Reduction Profile                                  Comparison of planned and achieved profile
Maintain O&M Plans including documentation of rehabilitation   Number of O&Mplans available.
activities (20 dams).
Maintain a training and awareness program for operation and    Number of dams with trained staff
surveillance personnel (20 dams).
Maintain Emergency Preparedness Plans (20 dams)         Number of EPPs prepared.
Project Component A - Rehabilitation of 20 Primary Irrigation Dams ($ 22 million, including
contingencies)
This component will support repair works on critical parts affecting dam safety. 20 primary irrigationi
dams, listed in Table 4, will be rehabilitated including: design and supervision, field tests, civil works,
hydraulic steel structures. All the 20 dams are of the embankment type (either earthfill or rockfill).
Table 4: MAIN IRRIGATION DAMS
Reservoir       Catchment    Population   Dam       Volume   Irrigated Area  Hazard
Area          at Risk     Height                            Category
_____                  (Km2)         (x 1000)    (m)       (Mm3)    (ha x 1, 000)
I     Arpilich                 220          6.2       16       105             19  High
2     Aygedzor                  152         0.4       36       3.55            0.9  High
3     Khalavar                  40          1.9       31       5.5             0.6  High
4     Azat                     526         88.2       77        70            2.7  High
5     Vardakar                 363         11.6     16.2         5             1.1  High
6     Tavshud                    17         1.6       37         6             1.5  Very High
7     Sovietashen               31          0.6       42        1.4           0.4  Very High
8     David-Beck                56          0.7     41.2        3.2            0.6  Very High
9     Sevaberd                  64          8.4       42         6             1.2  High
Interventions in the catchment area, debris dams, by-passing, flushing, dredging, etc.



Page 27
10    Aparan                    6S6        185.6     50.6        90            7.5  Medium
11    Karnout                    93         11.5     34.5     22.62              7  High
12    Mantash                    21         14.6     30.4       8.2            3. 7  Medium
13    Sarnskhpiur                68          7.7     29.2                       1. 1  High
14    Hakhoum                   211          0.3       46        12            2.4  High
15    Tavoush                   154          0.2     42.4         5             1.2  High
16    Gegardalich                 2         2.7      13.8       3.4            0.2  Very High
17    Gegarkounik2              0.7         2.9      16.5      0.33            0.1  High
18    Kakavadzor2                 3          0.7     33.4         1            0.5  High
19    W. Bazmaberd              0.5          0.7        8      0.22            0.1  High
20    Her-Her                   160          8.0     71.5        26             1.1  High
TOTALS             354.55 2.9
Note: Populationfigures exclude persons living outside Armenia
The method used by PIU to arrive at a risk classification of the dams is considered satisfactory and
representative of the national appreciation of dam safety. The nature of the dam's foundations is taken
into account (in terms of strength parameters) in the calculation of the factor of safety of the dam which is
one of the classification parameters.  It must be pointed out that there yet are no internationally
recognized risk classification methods which can be considered comprehensivel2. An elementary
method, based on 4 parameters only, has been proposed by ICOLD in relation to the selection of seismic
parameters for large dams13 (re: Bulletin 72).
Needed repairs are classified in four categories: (i) upstream protection works; (ii) spillway structural
repairs, (iii) leakage reduction; and (iv) irrigation/bottom outlet repair. Within each category, repair
works were allocated a priority ranking from I to 4. Because of resource constraints, only works ranked
as priority I and 2 along with some of priority 3 have been included in the project. Cost estimates for
these high priority works are given in Table 5. At eleven of the dams (Arpilich, Khalavar, Vardakar,
Sovietashen, David Beck, Aparan, Kamout, Mantash, Sarnakhpiur, Kakavadzor2 and Her-Her ) provision
is made for increasing the capacity of the spillway to allow the safe passage of the flood with a return
period of 10,000 years. At seven of the dams (Aparan, Tavshud, Sovietashen, Kamout, Sarnakhpiur,
Gegardalich and W.Bazmaberd) provision is made for improving the stability of the dams under
earthquake loading.
Table 5: REHABILITATION WORKS AT MAIN IRRIGATION DAMS
(INCLUDING DESIGN - EXCLUDING SAFETY EQUIPMENT)
Reservoir       Rehabilitation Works                                      Cost Estimate (incL
Contingencies) USS
I    Arpilich        Increase spillway capacity and reinstate M&E equipment     381,181
2    Aygedzor        Repair irrigation outlet and reinstate M&E equipment       1,170,545
3    Khalavar        Increase spillway capacity and reinstate M&E equipment     894,648
4    Azat            Reduce leakage and reinstate M&E Equipment                 720,057
5    Vardakar        Increase spillway capacity and reinstate M&E equipment     1,290,241
6    Tavshud         Repairs to dam and spillway and M&E equipment              3,154,137
7    Sovietashen     Increase spillway capacity, rectify leakage, repair outlet and  1,912,707
_ ___________ repair M&E equipment
8    David-Beck      Increase spillway capacity and reinstate M&E equipment     1,599,396
9    Sevaberd        Reinstate M&E equipment and repair irrigation outlet       596,089
10   Aparan          Increase spillway capacity and repair spillway and outlet  1,705,540
11   Karnout         Increase spillway capacity and repair dam                 884,868
22 However, an ICOLD Committee is at work on the subject and its recommendations are expected within 1999.
'3 Bulletin 72 (1989) "Selecting seismic parameters for large dams"



Page 28
12   Mantash        Increase spillway capacity                                805,059
13   Sarnskhpiur    Improve dam stability and increase spillway capacity      1,056,367
14   Hakhoum        Rectify leakage, repair outlet and reinstate M&E plant    2,147,424
15   Tavoush        Repair irrigation outlet and M&E plant                    526,495
16   Gegardalich    Repair dam and improve stability                          1,044,181
17   Gegarkounik2    Repair dam and rectify lea/cage                          332,489
18   Kakavadzor2    Increase spillway capacity and rectify leakage            239,462
19   W. Bazmaberd  Improve dam stability                                      224,633
20   Her-Her         Increase spillway capacity and reinstate M&E equipment   1,309,720
=___                 TOTAL                                                    21,995,239
Project Component B - Dam Safety Sustainability ( US S 7.2 million including contingencies)
Bl. Dam Safety Plans for O&M and Emergency Preparedness (EPP) ( US S 0.2 million including
contingencies)
This sub-component refers to two, strictly non-structural., safety measures:
A plan (the O&M Plan) shall be prepared, documenting operation, maintenance and surveillance for each
of the 20 dams. The plan shall contain suitable and sufficient information to allow operators to operate
the dam in a safe manner, maintain it in a safe condition, and monitor its performance well enough to
provide early warnings of any distress. The plan shall include, in a specific section, the Instrumentation
Plan. The O&M plan shall be implemented, followed, and updated at appropriate intervals.
An Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) shall be prepared, tested, issued and maintained for any darn
whose failure could be expected to result in loss of life as well as for any dam for which advanced
warning would reduce upstream or downstream damage. A notification process should be initiated, as
specified in the EPP, immediately upon finding a hazardous condition that could lead to a dam breach, or
upon discovering a potential dam breach or dam breach in progress. The dam owner, or operator shall
assess whether dam breach warnings should be issued directly to inhabitants in areas immediately
downstream of the dam, due to the short period of time before the anticipated arrival of a flood wave.
Where preventive actions are needed and feasible, these actions shall be initiated, as appropriate, to
prevent failure or to limit damages where failure is inevitable.
B2. Dam Safety Site Installations (US $ 1.7 million including contingencies)
Under this headings those site installations are included, which are necessary to make the dam safety
plans operative. Although they could not strictly be classified as non-structural, it is general practice to
include them under such category. This is justified by the fact that the associated costs are far lower than
those for the rehabilitation works proper.
Dam safety site installations include:
1. Instruments and monitoring devices to keep dam behavior under control during operation
2. Early warning systems at selected dams, composed of danger signals (sirens) to be activated
following a dam breach warning; table 6 shows the number of sirens to be installed, the list has been
agreed with the Armenian Emergency Management Agency (EMA) 14.
'4 EMA has the same status of a ministry and, as such, it reports directly to the prime minister. The function of
EMA, together with those of other different actors (local governments, municipalities, minister of interior), is
described in the law 1998/265 on "Civil protection in case of emergency situation" approved by the Parliamient on 2
December 1998. The law classifies dam-related hazards as "technological catastrophes", as opposed to "natural
catastrophes".



Page 29
3. Energy supply, in the case of emergency, will be secured by building-in redundancy in the system;
stand-by generators will be installed and connected to the system.
4. Small buildings for generators, watchman houses and workshops.
5. Short wave radio stations.
Table 6: EARLY WARNING SYSTEMS (EWS)
Dam                      fPopulation at risk     1Number of sirens
Aparan                 -           185631                    88
Azat                               88186                     44
Mantash                            14654                     47
Karnut                             11467          _           6
Sarnapur                  i         7722      _               4
Sewaberd                           8407          !        __-4
Her-Her                            793                        4
Arpalich                           6250                       3
Gegarkun                 r         2900         t             3
Gegardalich            -6-02650                                           -
Kalawar                            1871          i            2
Vardakar                           11590                      2
Tawshut                            1564                      1            |
Sowetashen                          600                       11
Note: The list includes 14 of the 20 dams. According to EMA, there is no need for EWS downstream of Bazmabert
and Kakav dams because population is low and mostly not permanent in the potential inundation area. In the case of
Ahum, Tawush, Aygedzor and David-Beck, it is not possible to install EWS because those dams are located on the
border with Azerbaijan.
B3. Capacity Building: Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Dam Maintenance Enterprise (US
$3 million including contingencies)
The project provides for the operation and maintenance of rehabilitated dams. The incremental O&M
costs include DME incremental staff, central and regional offices, transport, and utilities. In view of
Government current budgetary constraints, and to ensure timely performance of O&M activities, funding
will be provided for O&M under the IDA credit on a sliding scale, thus ensuring that full O&M
requirements are reflected in the Government budget by the last year of the project period.
The Dam Maintenance Enterprise 'Jrambar' will be responsible for the 20 primary irrigation dams being
rehabilitated under the project. It will also assume direct responsibility for the monitoring of the 54
remaining irrigation dams, and will coordinate the monitoring of the other dams with the agencies
operating them. To enable DME to assume this responsibility, the project will provide for DME to
acquire the necessary survey, communication, and monitoring equipment, as well as the necessary plant
and vehicles to ensure that it has the capacity to remain fully informed about the current safety status of
all dams, and that it has the means to intervene in case of emergency.
In addition to this, provision has been made, in the project budget, for the realization of 2 or 3 pilot mini-
hydro power plants15 (installed capacity of a few lOOs kW). Such facilities generate income or, at least,
reduce costs associated with power supply from the grid for the operation of the dams.
15 A study on the hydropower potential in Armenia was carried out for the Ministry of Energy by Lahameyer Int.
(Germany) and a national consultant in 1993. The study identified about 350 possible sites for small hydropower
plants (less than 3 MW) and 6 for large plants (the largest being about 100 MW).



Page 30
B4. Investigations and Emergency Interventions on 54 Irrigation Dams and 6 Energy Dams (US $2.5
million including contingencies)
This component will support safety investigations into all remaining dams in Armenia. The 54 remaining
irrigation dams16 are listed in Table 7. The first 3 dams (Joghaz,Akurian and Kechout) were originally
included in the rehabilitation list of the DSP. They have subsequently been removed based on the
assessment of project preparedness and their relatively higher safety conditions. The rest of the dams are
generally of smaller size than the main irrigation dams. They range in height from 1.5 meters to 20
meters. The impounded reservoirs range in volume from 10,000 cubic meters to 5.4 million cubic meters.
Many of these dams have one or more villages located downstream. In nearly all cases, it is thought that
loss of life would result from failure of any of these dams. Based on the limited infornation available,
most are thought to be in poor conditions. Because of lack of resources, however, no allocation is
included under this project for the rehabilitation of these dams. Instead, provision is made for their close
monitoring, along with detailed technical investigations to clarify the safety state of each dam. In
addition, a limited provision is made to create an emergency fund to allow DME to intervene in cases
where further deterioration of any of these dams poses an imminent threat to human life.
Table 7: REMAINING IRRIGATION DAMS
Reservoir                                    Reservoir
Dam name         Height    Capacity           Dam name        Height (m)  Capacity (Mm3)
I ________  (m)              (Mm3)
I    Joghaz            65         4S         28    Marmarik            6.0           0.40
2    Akhurian          59         525        29    Ors                 6.3           0.10
3    Kechout           48         23         30    Karahundj           6.0           1.30
4    Karagloukh        20.0       0.18       31    Landjaghbiur-2      5.9           0.12
5    Gndevaz           19.0       0.20       32    Irind               5.6           0.06
6    Shenik            18.0       0.80       33    Djili-litch         5.5           0.70
7    Aghavnadzor       18.0       0.30       34    Ashnak-l            5.2           0.11
8    N. Sasnashen      17.4       1.20       35    N. Talin            5.0           0.04
9    Landjaghbiur-2    16.7       0.40       36    V. Talin-2          5.0           0.03
10   Gegharkounik-l   14.5        0.30       37    Aknalitch           4.5           3.90
11   Djadjour          13.0       0.30       38    V. Sasnashen        4.5           0.06
12   Tsilkar           13.0       1.20       39    Bazmaberd           4.5           0.02
13   Katnaghbiur-l     10.4       0.40       40    Aragatsh            4.0           0.59
14   Aghakchi          10.3       0.09       41    Mastara             4.0           0.08
15   Kosh              9.0        0.50       42    Katnaghbiur-2       4.0           0.01
16   Agarak            8.0        0.20       43    Kakavadzor-I        3.8           0.02
17   Talish            8.0        0.05       44    Martiros-2          3.5           0.04
18   Varisrouni        8.0        0.09       45    Saralitch           3.0           0.21
19   V. Talin-1        7.5        0.30       46    Eghnik             -3.0           0.01
20   Hatsashen         7.3        1.10       47    Khashtarak-I        2.5           0.12
21   Metsavan          7.0        5.40       48    Khashtarak-2        2.0           0.08
22   Brnakot           7.0        0.90       49    V Karmir            2.0           0.04
23   Ashnak-2          7.0        0.30       50    Artavan             2.0           0.03
24   Vosketas          7.0        0.11       51    Aghkghlou           1.5           0.01
25   Davidashen        7.0        0.30       52    Martiros-l          1.5           0.12
26   Hovit             7.0        0.30       53    Gazigel              1.5         0.21
27   Shgharshik        7.0        0.10       54    Marmarik            60.0         22.00
Note: Marmarik is presently kept empty because of high pore pressures and possible cracking of the core.
16 Out of these, 3 dams have dual purpose (irrigation and domestic water supply), another one is for environmental
(lake Sevan levels) and recreational purposes.



Page 31
The sub-component also includes an allocation of $ 0.2 million to support technical investigations on the
6 Hydropower Dams for which details are given in Table 8. These dams were built betweeln 1953 and
1989.
Table 8: ENERGY DAMS
iCatchmenJ area     Height   [ Storage capacit  | Reservoir area
(km-')          (in)           ('Mm3)             (/7a)
Spandaryan                       5507           83 |             '5 7            1025
Achparin                         .60          !4.5               5.6              170
Argel                           12?(0         24.8 I|5 ! I
Angechakot                       _8             35               3 4      _54
Tolors                          380            69 l             96,Y              480
.Shamh                          1600            41              13.6              112
|TOT.4L                  3717.4
Project Component C - Project Management (S I million including contlingen7cies)
This component will provide for the incremental operating cost of the existing Project Implementation
Unit throughout the duration of the Project.



Page 32
Annex 3
Damn Saeftv Project
Estimated Project (Cost.
Project Component                                  Local             Foreign        Total
--------------------US S million----------------
Rehabilitation of 20 primary irriggation dams      8.8               10.4           18.5
Dam Safety Suslainability                          2.5               4.0            6.5
Project management                                 0.4               0.5            0.9
Total Baseline Cost                                il                14.9           25.9
Physical Contingencies                          1.4               1.9            3.3
Price Contingencies                             0.1               1.0            1.1
Total Project Cost                                 12.5              17.8           30.3



Page 33
Annex 4
Dam Safety Project
Economic Analysis
Benefits
(a) Severe safety risk reduced for 360,000 people living downstream of 20 highly risky dams. The
number of population at risk per dam varies from 1,000 to 157,000.
(b) Risk reduced for potential flooding and loss of 34% of total irrigated area in Armenia, through the
guaranteeing of water supply to an area of 68,000 hectares. which produces annual farm net income of
$35 million.
(c) Risk reduced of potential destruction of 78,000 homes and damage to over $2 billion worth of roads,
irrigation structures, and other public infrastructure and enterprises (especially the inundation area of the
Azat dam with over $800 million in infrastructure at risk).
Cost-Benefit Indicators:
Base level of economic rate of return (ERR) of 32%, with sensitivity analysis showing a range of values
from 15% to 36%. Counting potential losses only of agricultural income and household assets, the values
of the ERR range from 14-24%. See Table XX in this Annex.
The methodology usedfor estimating the ERR is as follows:
The potential losses of farm net income are derived using the average net income data revealed in the
1998 study executed by the Bank "Armenia's Private Agriculture: 1998 Farm Survey" and the value of
49,000 hectares of agricultural area which would loss access to water from dams and therefore be unable
to withstand the summer period, thereby going out of agricultural production. Roughly 19,000 of the
68,000 hectares of agricultural land in the inundation area of the 20 dams covered under the project have
access to alternative water sources (though they would not be completely supplementary). With average
annual net farm income per hectare of $515. the total potential losses associated with 49,000 hectares of
agricultural area going out of production are $25 million, or $500 million over the twenty year period
considered under the project.
Potential losses of household assets were estimated by taking the average size of rural households (100
sq. meters) at a replacement cost of $250 per sq. meter, adding another roughly $5000 of household and
farm assets (consumer durables, livestock, etc.). Losses from flooding were taken at 60% of the
household total of $30,000 in dwelling and other assets, and then multiplied by the number of households
expected to be affected in each dam's inundation area.
Potential losses of non-household assets was estimated by taking an inventory of the various structures in
each dam's inundation zone and estimating the replacement cost of roads and irrigation structures (per
km) and other infrastructure. Given the rough estimate that was reached, a 30% damage rate was used
for estimating the potential value of losses from dam breaks. This is reasonable, as structures such as
roads and canals which would be damaged are likely to be damaged to a degree greater than 30% of
replacement value.



Page 34
The potential losses were summed across all dam inundation areas for the three categories and then
integrated into a 20 year calculation considering benefits of foregoing these losses by reducing the rates
of expected dam failure. The reductions of dam failure rates are expected to be on the order of 90%,
from 7.5% to .75%, for the 20 year period. This amounts to reducing the dam failure rate for a single
dam in a singe year by an order of magnitude, but to a rate which is still above the internationally
observed rate of 0.5% for dams built since 1951 ("Dam Failures Statistical Analysis", International
Commission for Large Dams, Bulletin 99, 1995).
When the reduction of the dam failure rate is distributed over the twenty years and multiplied out by the
three different types of losses, a stream of benefits is generated to compare with the stream of project
investments. The base level of ERR for the project is 32%, using an average dam failure rate of 7.5%,
which corresponds to a reduction of 6.75% in the dam failure rate to 0.75% owing to project investments.
Sensitivity analysis shows that for an average dam failure rate of 5%, the ERR is 25%, and even if all
benefits from foregoing damage to non-household assets are excluded, the ERR still reaches a level of
13%. If the average dam failure rate is as high as 10%, then the ERR reaches 36%. Sensitivity analysis
performed also shows that the threshold level of ERR of 15% is met when the probability of dam break in
the system over twenty years is set at 3.6% (and when the foregone damages to non-household assets are
included in the benefit stream). This 3.6% rate is below historically observed levels.



Page 35
Republic of Armenia - Dam Safety Project: Economic Crop Budgets (1998 constant drams and $US)
Irrigated Wheat per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                     quantity   price                 Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                      2,520
Economic Import Parity Farmgate price/kg              80
Income (Dram/ha)                                                          201,600
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Seed (kg/ha x price/kg)                     200    125                   25,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)    175    142                   24,850
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)                 2  3,500                    7,000
Mechanized Work (rental basis)
Ploughing                                                                 15,000
Cultivation                                                               7,500
Levelling                                                                 7,000
Ridging                                                                   7,000
Combining                                                                 15,000
Fuel costs (0.15 L/hp/hr x 82hp x 10hrs)    123 2002                     24,600
On-farm transport and Miscellaneous                          [|20,000
Total Expenditures                                          76%           152,950
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of                        24%            48,650
water & taxes)
USD                 122
equiv.
Irrigated Vegetables per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                     quantity   price                 Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                      9,760
Estimated Average Farrngate price/kg                  50
Income (Dram/ha)                                                          488,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Seed (kg/ha x price/kg)               [77 1  5000                         5,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)    300    142                   42,600
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)                 7  3,500                   24,500
Mechanized Work
Ploughing (rental)                                                        5,0001
Cultivation (rental)                                          |            ,00|
Fuel costs (0.15 L/hp/hr x 82hp x 7hrs)  |   86    200                   17,200
On-farmn Misc. (spraying, transport etc)                      F150,000
Total Expenditures                                          54%          261,800
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of                       46%           226,200
water & taxes)
USD                 566
equiv.



Page 36
Irrigated Forage Crops per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                     quantity   price                   Drams
Expected yield - hay equivalent (kg/ha)      8,000
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                    18
Income (Dram/ha)                                                            144,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Seed (kg/ha x price/kg)                       351   200                     7,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)     100|   1421                   14,200
Mechanized Work
Mowing and Raking                                                           18,000
Baling                                                                     35,000
Baling Twine                                                               10,000
On-farm transport                                                          45,000
Total Expenditures                                          90%             129,200
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of                         10%             14,800
water & taxes)
USD                   37
equiv.
Irrigated Fruit per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                     quantity   price                   Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                      10,155
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                    90
Income (Dram/ha)                                                            913,950
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Planting materials (replanting)                                             3,0001
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL.TSP(kg/ha x price/kg) |   3001   142|                   42,600
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)         |        71  3,500                   24,500
Mechanized Work
Spraying                                                         I        I75,000
On-farm transport and Miscellaneous                            |            0,0pj
Total Expenditures                                          25%            225,100
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of                        75%            688,850
water & taxes)
USD                 1,722
equiv.
Irrigated Vineyard (grapes) per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                     quantity   price                   Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                      4,800
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                    72
Income (Dram/ha)                                                            345,600
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Planting materials                                                          3,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)  1  3001   142                    42,600



Page 37
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)                   71 3,500                     24,500
Mechanized Work
Spraying                                                                     75,000
On-farm transport and Miscellaneous                                          70.0
Total Expenditures                                            62%            215.100
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of                          38%            130,500
water & taxes)
USD                   326
equiv.
Republic of Armenia
Dam Safety Project
Major Assumptions for
Economic Cost and
Benefit Analysis
Gross  farmgate  Base Cropping Pattern
Margins                  under Blockade
from crop      price  Yield
budgets
USD   USD/ton ton/ha
Wheat        122        2001   2.5        30%
Vegetables       566        125    9.8       26%
Forage        37         45    8.0        17%
Fruit     1,722       225   10.2        17%
Grapes        326        1801   4.8       10%
100%
Average Gross Margin Per
Hectare
$
515
300          This parameter reflects that 30% of the value of non-farm assets
(roads, irrigation structures, and
other infrastructure) that would be lost as a result of the dam
breaks and consequent flooding
$           This parameter reflects the costs of repair or replacement for the 60% of
18,144        homes and household assets
in households damaged as a result of the dam breaks
and consequent flooding
4.6          This is the average number of inhabitants per
household



Page 38
Summary of Potential Losses from Dam Breaks - Agricultural Areas, Associated Incomes, Homes
and Household Assets, and Other Non-Household Assets
Potential Annual    Potential     Potential
Poltential  I ost Farm  i Number if  l.osses of    I.osses from
llectares l.ost   Net Inconme   Households  hlouseholds   Other Assets
Damaged
lDams                                  (Thousand St H lhotsarudsi t I housand S)  (ihousand S)
Arpilich                           19            S       1.348          S              $
9,789                24.455            360
Aygedzor                           0.9           S       .391           S              S
464                25,244            633
Khalavar                           0.6           S      0.413           $              $
309                  7,494          1.881
Azat                               2.7           S     19.174           $              $
1.391               347.891       259.500
Vardakar                           1.!           s      2.522           S              $
567                45,754            450
Tavshud                            1.5           S      0.348           $              $
773                 6,311              -
Sovietashen                        0.4           $      0.130           $              S
206                  2.367            60
David-Beck                         0.6           $      0.152           $              $
309                 2,761         27,210
Sevaberd                           1.2           $      1.826           $              $
618                33,133          3,420
Aparan                             3.5           $    40.348            $              S
1,803               732,071       429,900
Karnout                             7            $      2.500           $              $
3,606                45,360         24,060
Mantash                            3.7           $      3.174           $              $
1,906                57,587         30,000
Sarhakhpiur                        I.]           s      1.674           $
567                30,371
Hakhoum                            2.4           $      0.065           $              $
1,236                 1,183           120
Tavoush                            1.2           $      0.043           S              $
618                   789            810
Gegardalich                        0.2           $      0.587           $              $
103                10,650          3,090
Gegharkounik2                      0.1           $      0.587           $              $
52                10,650            222
Kakavadzor2                        0.5           $      0.152           $              $
258                  2,761           420
W. Bazmaberd                       0.1           $      0.152           S              $
52                 2,761            180
Her-Her                            1.1           $      1.739           S              $
567                31,555         30,000
Totals                            48.9           $       78.3           $              $
25,193              1,421,149       812,256



Page 39
Reduction of Losses from Investments under the Dam Safety Project - Calculations of Net Benefits and
Economic Rates of Return
Reduction of  Reduction of  Reduction of  Reduction of
4%   Probability   Loss of     Loss of   Losses of Other Investment Net Benefits
Costs
of Loss    Farm Income   hlousehold  Assets
Assets     Damaged
2000       0.23%            $           $            $        $           $
-           -           -    6,700      (6,700)
2001       0.23%            $           $            $        S           $
59       3.328        1.902    7.200     (1,911)
2002       0.24%            $           $            $        $           $
120       3,463        1,979    5,700       (137)
2003       0.25%            $           $            $        $           $
184       3.604        2,060    5,700         148
2004       0.26%            $           s            $        $           $
251       3,751        2,144     5,100      1,045
2005       0.27%            $           $            $                    $
320       3,903        2,231                6,454
2006       0.29%            $           $            $                    $
392       4,062        2,322                6,775
2007       0.30%            $           $            $                    $
467       4,227        2,416                7,110
2008       0.31%            S           $            $                    $
545       4,399        2,514                7,458
2009       0.32%            $           $            $                    $
626       4,578        2,617                7,821
2010       0.34%            $           $            $                    $
710       4.764        2,723                8,198
2011       0.35%            $           $            $                    $
798       4,958        2,834                8,590
2012       0.36%            $           $            $                    $
890       5,160        2,949                8,999
2013       0.38%            $           $            $                    $
985       5,370        3,069                9,424
2014       0.39%            $           $            $                    $
1,084       5,588       3,194                9,866
2015       0.41%            $           $            $                    $
1,187       5,815       3,324               10,326
2016       0.43%            $           $            $                    $
1,294       6,052       3,459               10,805
2017       0.44%            $           $            $                    $
1,406       6,298       3,600               11,304
2018       0.46%            $           $            $                    $
1,522       6,554       3,746               11,823
2019       0.48%            $           $            $                    $
1,643       6,821       3,899               12,363
6.75%           $            $           $ ERR              32%
14,485      92,695      52,980
NPV          $25,234



Page 40
Summary of Sensitivity         House and Farm Losses Only          House, Farm, and 30% of Other
Analysis                               Considered                            Assets Lost
ERR          NPV                    ERR         NPV
Current Dam Break                              113%         1283                   25%        13302
Probability - 5% over 20
Years
Probability of Dam Break                       19%         9128                    32%        25234
- 7.5% over 20 Years
Probability of Dam Break -                    23%         16358                    36%        36251
10% over 20 Years
With 3.6% Dam Break probability, the ERR minimum threshold of 15% is met when losses of non-farm
assets are included with household and farm income losses.
This level is below the historical level observed over the past fortv years in Armenia
(which is 5% and increasing).



Page 41
Annex 5
Dam Safety Project
Financial Summary
Project Years 1-5
(US$ million. PY October] to September 30)
Implementation Period
PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5
Project Costs
Investment Costs       6.6    7.1    5.5    5.3    4. 7
Recurrent Costs        0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.4
Total               6.6    7.2    5.7    5.7    5.1
Financing Sources
IDA                5.9    6.5    5.1    4.9    4.3
Government             0 7    0.7    0.6    0.8    0.8
Total               6.6    7.2    5.7    5.7    5.1



Page 42
Annex 6
Dam Safety Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods.
Procurement of works and goods would be in accordance with the "Guidelines - Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," (January 1995, revised January, 1999). The Borrower would use the
Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works for ICB contracts and ECA regional sample
NCB documents for NCB and Minor works. Selection of consultants would be in accordance with the
"Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," (January 1997,
revised January 1999). For the consulting assignments the Borrower would use the relevant World Bank
standard forms of contract.
Implementation:
The responsibility for all procurement will rest with the PIU presently in charge of the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Procurement Unit at the PIU is headed by a
Procurement Specialist who is assisted by two junior procurement engineers. A formal assessment of the
PIU procurement capacity was undertaken by the Bank. The major findings and action plan were
discussed with Government and were incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan. While the present
procurement capacity at the PIU was adequate to meet the initial startup procurement activities of the
Dam Safety Project, it will be necessary to add an additional procurement specialist to the Procurement
Unit to cope with the additional volume of procurement work resulting from the proposed project. The
new procurement specialist should have at least 2-3 years of experience in Bank-financed procurement.
The new procurement specialist should be selected as soon as possible (before project start-up). In
addition the new specialist along with the existing two junior specialists should receive training in Bank
procurement procedures. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and
recorded to serve as the basis for quarterly progress reportsl7 to be submitted to the IDA. These reports
should indicate: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total project; (ii) revised
timing of procurement actions and completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv)
compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Local Design and Construction Capacity and Capability.
A review of the engineering consulting industry, particularly in the field of hydraulic structures, indicates
generally acceptable technical capacity and capability in the country to meet project requirements.
However, the design organizations somewhat lack the management skills needed to organize and
coordinate design work to meet the requirements of the tight project procurement schedule. This
deficiency may hamper the timely delivery of the designs for undertaking the most urgent rehabilitation
works during the first year of the dam safety program. To bridge this gap, the services of an international
design management specialist are required to assist PIU in overseeing the design activities and to provide
on the job training over the first phase of design activity. It is expected that after this on-the-job training,
the design management capacity will reach acceptable standards. Regarding the construction industry, the
'' Semi-annual reports after two years.



Page 43
Bank assessment indicates generally adequate capacity and capability for handling small value civil
works contracts of up to $1.0 million each. The General Procurement Notice has been published in the
UN Development Business of 30 April, 1999. A Notice for Pre-qualification of Contractors has been
published in the UN Development Business of 18 May. 1999. A project launch workshop is planned for
September 1999.
Procurement arrangements:
These are summarized in tables A and B. The Procurement Plan is presented in table C Details are as
follows:
Works: Contracts for dam safety works valued at above US$0.518 million and above per contract would
be procured through ICB for an estimated aggregate amount of US$20.3 million. Contracts valued at or
below US$0.5 million would be procured through NCB up to an aggregate amount of US$2.2 million.
Contractors for civil works both under ICB and NCB procedures would be pre-qualified in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. The domestic contractors will be eligible for a 7 1/2% domestic preference under
the ICB procurement of civil works in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Works were grouped into
larger packages to the extent feasible to take advantage of geographical proximity and implementation
schedules.
Goods: ICB procedures would be used for contracts valued at US$200.00019 and higher (procurement
packages for maintenance equipment and machinery) up to an aggregate amount of US$2.8 million.
International Shopping procedure (IS) will be used for contracts (vehicles, snowmobiles, and equipment
to be financed under ERF) estimated to cost less than US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$600,000. National shopping (NS) would be used for small items, estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000 on the basis of at least three quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers.
Consultant Services (US$2.7 Million): The proposed IDA Credit would finance (i) technical assistance
and consulting services for design work related to rehabilitation work and safety equipment installation,
dam safety studies, supervision of civil works, audit services; (ii) TA for design coordination and
management and preparation of technical specifications for civil works; and (iii) the services of an
international dam specialist to periodically provide advisory services to the PIU during the life of the
project on dam safety aspects. The procurement of TA and consulting services would be in conformity
with the Bank's Consulting Guidelines. Procurement methods for consulting packages are summarized
below:
(i)   QCBS ($2.3 Million): This method will be used to contract the services for design work on the
technical investigations on all dams and the audit services for a period of five years. For contracts
estimated to cost less than $200,000 each, the short-listing may be restricted to qualified eligible
Armenian consulting firms and eligible design institutes.
(ii) Individual Consultants(US$0.5 Million): The services for design management and coordination,
and the services of an international dam specialist will be contracted on an individual basis in view of
their short duration and specialized nature. The total aggregate amount for the two consultants would be
about $239,000. In addition, the services of a Sociologist would be contracted for one year on an
intermittent basis (US$2,000). the PIU would also require the services of additional consultants to meet
the incremental staff requirements resulting from the Dam Safety Project. The total aggregate for these
18 If after one year of operation, the number of foreign firns participating in the bidding process is non-existing,
then the Bank will consider increasing the threshhold to US$1.0 million.
'9 Set at this high level due to the emergency nature of the project.



Page 44
consultants would be in the order of $215,000, including an additional procurement specialist, a financial
management specialist and two engineers. The selection of the individual consultants shall be based on
comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment. The selection of the
international experts shall be based on consultant's qualifications and on the basis of comparison of at
least three CVs.
(iii) Training (US$1 16,000):The IDA credit would also finance some training activities, including
study tours. These activities will be procured in accordance with Bank Consultant Guidelines. A detailed
training program will be submitted by the Borrower to IDA for its prior approval.
Emergency Repair Fund ($2.0 million): This fund is being createdfor the following purposes:
(i)    Emergency interventions which may become necessary as a result of the investigation work on
the 60 dams, which are not scheduled for rehabilitation under the project. For each case the Borrower
will obtain prior IDA approval before drawing upon this fund.
(ii)    To finance two or three pilot mini-hydro stations at a total cost of about $100,000.  The
procurement of goods, works, and services, for the proposed pilot stations would be governed by the
same procurement and prior review thresholds as for goods, civil works and consulting services for the
Dam Safety Project. The Borrower shall submit to the IDA a detailed procurement plan before
undertaking the work for the two pilot mini-hydro stations
Civil works under the Emergency Repair Fund valued at above US$ 50,000 would be procured through
NCB procedures. Works estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 would be procured through Minor Works
procedure. Equipment procured under the Emergency Fund is expected to be procured under IS
procedure.
Incremental Operating Costs($1.2 million): The IDA Credit would finance on declining basis the
incremental operating costs for the Dam Maintenance Agency (DME), an organization which will
eventually assume the responsibility for overseeing the dam maintenance in Armenia, and the Project
PIU. The incremental operating costs include fuel, utilities, supplies, and staff salaries of DME from the
date this organization takes over responsibility for rehabilitated dams. These costs will be reimbursed on
the basis of annual budgets to be approved by IDA
Prior Review by IDA:
The following procurement documentation will be subject to prior IDA review:
(i)    Goods and Civil Works: All ICB contracts for goods and works; all NCB contracts for civil
works estimated to cost $200,000 and more, including bidding documents, evaluation reports; and first
two contracts and bidding documents for civil works under NCB, and first two contracts for goods under
iS .
(ii)    With regard to services contracts, prior IDA review would be required for all Terms of Reference
(TOR), irrespective of the contract value. Contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost more than
US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review (the IDA would, in addition to the TOR, review the
Request for Proposals (RFP) and the short-list). For each contract with a consulting firm ,estimated to
cost US$50,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report
would be submitted to the IDA for its review prior to the opening of the financial proposals. For
contracts estimated to cost between US$ 25,000 and US$ 50,000 the IDA would be notified of the results
of the technical and financial evaluations. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$ 20,000



Page 45
or more, in addition to the TORs, the corresponding individual qualifications, experience and terms of
employment shall be furnished to the IDA for its prior review and approval.
All works, goods and services contracts and contract items not subject to prior review would be subject to
ex-post review by the IDA on a random basis of one in five contracts.
Retroactive Financing: In view of the urgent need to start up implementation of the project, the PIU
initiated the procurement process for the first year dam rehabilitation program in consultation with the
Bank. The total amount for retroactive financing shall not exceed the equivalent of US$1.0 million for
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1999. provided the procurement of goods, works, and consulting
services, was in accordance with the Bank Guidelines and specifically cleared by IDA.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 26.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of five years,
and the expected closing date of the Credit would be March 31. 2005. It is estimated, based on
experience with ongoing IDA operations in Armenia. that the country's ability to implement the project
over a five-year period is reasonable. especially given that the PIU is well established and experienced,
and that many national design and construction firms are now generally familiar with similar IDA
supported project requirements. The allocation of the proceeds of the IDA credit is summarized in table
D.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
The following disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a)
goods under contracts costing less than US$200,000 each; (b) works under contracts costing less than
US$ 200,000 each; (c) maintenance costs; and (d) services under contracts less than US$50,000 each for
consulting firms, and less than US$20,000 each for individual consultants, under such terms and
conditions as the IDA shall specify. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the
Borrower and made available to the IDA during supervision.
Special Account (SA)
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a
commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the IDA. The IDA would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of
US$2.6 million. Initially the allocation would be limited to US$ 1.3 million until disbursements have
reached US$ 5.0 million (SDR 3,700), at which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed.
Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly (or when 20 percent of the
initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier). The replenishment application would be
supported by the necessary documentation, the SA bank statement and a reconciliation of this bank
statement. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA.



Page 46
Armenia: Dam Safety Project
Annex 6 - Table A - Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods/Works         ICB            NCB           Is            NS           Other metlhods
I Procurement       Works          \k orks      I Works:       Works:       Minor works:
method thresholds    >S5000       <$500 0000    nonie          none        <$50.000
Goods:         Goods:        Goods:        Goods:       Goods:
>$200.000      none         NoIIe          <$50.000    none
2. Prior Review     All ICB and    All           First ' goods
each contract   >SN00.000    corn,t
for goods and   and first tuo X
works above   NCB
$0.2 million    contracts for
__________________w orks
Consultanlt Services   QCBS        QBS           Sole Sourcitg: Consultanit s Otlher metllods
qualification  Individual
l   s      Consultants
3. Procurement      $1.9 million   nonet         none         I$015         $0.5 million
imethiod and                                    l              million
aggregates
4. Prior Review     >S50,000       >$50,000      All            >$50,000    >$20,000
5. Ex-post Review   Explain briefly the ex-post review mechaniism:
The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management and
project record keeping during periodic supervision missions. Roughly 10%
of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical
Assistance requirements
The current PIU has a Procurement Unit which is headed by a Procurement Specialist. In addition
there are two junior procurement engineers who assist in the routine work pertaining to bidding and
in the evaluation process. In view of the urgent nature of procurement requirements of the Dam
Safety Project, the volume of the procurement work and its complexity will require an additional
experienced procurement specialist who should be thoroughly familiar with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and procedures and should preferably have 2-3 years of experience in Bank-financed
procurement. In addition, the two junior procurement engineers could be provided further
procurement training and be used to cope with the increasing volume of procurement work relating
to the DSP. There is also a critical need for urgent technical assistance for overseeing the design of
dam rehabilitation works and preparation of technical specifications for the ICB process for civil
works. This will be met by a short-term international dam design management consultant. In
addition, the PIU would have at its disposal, during the life of the project, the expert advisory
services of an international dam expert who would periodically review the ongoing dam
rehabilitation program and provide appropriate advice to PIU.
6. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures
will rest with the staff of the Project Implementation Unit.
The prime responsibility for procurement work at the PIU would rest upon the Project Manager.
He will be supported by a Procurement Unit consisting of two experienced Procurement
Specialists and two junior procurement engineers.



Page 47
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy  8 Are the bidding
Paper status:                                                           documents for the
A country procurement note was prepared in 1997 based on a procuremenit  procurement actions of
decree (N.577 dated 12/15/1994). The decree was replaced by two decrees in    the first year ready by
1997 and a draft procurement law is currently before the Armenian Parliament.   negotiationis? Partially
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
The two junior procurement engineers at the PIU should be provided extensive procurement
training especially in Civil Works.
9. Estimated start date   10. Estimated date of  1 1 I Indicate if  12.          13. Domestic
of Project             General Procurement   contracts are subject to  Domestic    Preference for
October 1. 1999        Notice publication.   mandatorN SPN in       Preference    Constiltanit:
April 30, 1999        Development           for Works:
I  Busiiness:    Yes  Yes               Yes
14. Retroactive financinig Yes                                          15. Advanced
up to US$ 1.0 millioll           ProcuremeitNo
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitorinig System and Informiationi System:
The PIU will submit PMRs on quarterly basis starting Oct 1. 2000.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team: Snezania Mitrovic Division: ECSSD
Ext. 32182
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: None foreseen at the present time.



Page 48
Armenia: Dam Safety Project
Annex 6 -Table B - Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
International    National
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding       Bidding      Other   N.B.F.   Total
A. Civil Works                                    20,279.4       1,198.4          -      -  21,477.8
(17.237.5)    (1.018.6)                    (18,256.1)
B. Emergency Repair Fund ((a)                            -        802.4  1,203.8(d)      -    2,006.2
(852.6)    (852.6)         (1,705.3)
C. Equipment                                       2,987.6            -        45.7      -    3,033.3
(2,987.6)                  (45.7)         (3,033.3)
D. Consulting Services (b)                                            -    2,678.6       -    2,678.6
(2,588.9)        (2,588.9)
E. Operation and Maintenance costs of Dam                -            -    1,053.1       -    1,053.1
Maintenance Enterprise (c)
(349.1)           (349.1)
F. Operation and Maintenance costs of Project            -            -        81.1    9.5       90.6
Implementation Unit
(36.9)            (36.9)
Total                                             23,266.9       2,201.5    4,861.6    9.5   30,339.6
(20,225.0)    (1,871.3)   (3,873.2)     - (25,969.5)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
(a) with prior approval and in accordance with procedures approved by the Bank
(b) in accordance with Bank's consultant guidelines
(c) Reimbursement on the basis of annual budgets, approved by the Bank
(d) Following procedures for minor works



Page 49
Armenia: Dam Safety Project
Annex 6 - Table C - Procurement Plan (US$)
Description                          Type      No. of     Cost   Procurement Document Invitation Contract    Contract
Contracts Incl. Cont.   Method   Preparation  to bid  signing   completion
Consulting Services Firms                                                           2,022.027
Design rehabilitation and design safety equip. installation Kamut'    CF  I        -         CQ       Nov-98   Dec-98  Jan-99        Jun-99
Design rehabilitation and safety equipment installation Aparan *         I         -         CQ       Nov-98   Dec-98  Jan-99        JUn-99
I Design rehabilitation works Gegardalich. Bazmaberd           CF         3       146,643      CQ       Mar-99   Apr-99  May-99        Jul-99
Tavshud, Khalavar, Arpitich
2 Rapid Dam Appraisal                                          Cl'         1      46.414     QCBS       Mar-99   Apr-99  Jun-99        Nov-99
3 Design of equipment Installation works Gegardalich. Bazmaberd.  CF       t      50.020     QCBS       Mar-99   Apr-99  Jun-99        Sep-99
Tavshud, Khalavar, Arpilich
4 Supervision rehab and safety equip. inst. works Karnut. Aparan  CF       t      160.341    QCBS        Jun-99    Jul-99   Sep-99  Oct-00 to D)ec-
Gegardalich, Bazmaberd, Khalavar, Arpilich, Tavshud
5 Technical Investigation remaining 60 dams (DB)               CIl         1      419.033     QCBS       Jul-99    Aug-99  Oct-99      Oct-0)l
6 Audit I                                                      CF          1      113.963    QCBS        Jul-99    Sep-99   Dec-99     Apr-01
7 Design rehabilitation and safety equipment inst. - all superv.  CF       i      70.949     QCBS       Jun-99    Jul-99   Sept 99    Apr-00*0
Sarnapur
8 Design rehabilitation and safety equipment inst. + all superv.  CF       t      135.888    QCBS       Aug-99   Sept-99  Dec-99    Jun-00)*
Sovetashen
9 Design rehabilitation and safety eq. inst. + all superv. Sewaberd &  Cl'  1     103.909    QCBS       Oct-99    Dec-99  Mar-00    Oct-00'
Kakavdz
t0 Design reh. and saf Eq. Inst. + all superv. David-Beck.      CF          I     224.994     QCBS       Apr-00    Jun-00  Sept-00    Apr-01**
Gegarkunik, Azat
11 Design rehab. and saf Eq. Inst.+ all supervision Mantash, Her 1icr    ClF  1    193,242    QCBS       Jan-01    Mar-01  Jun-01      Jan-02-*
12 Design rehab. and saf. Eq. Inst.+ all supervisions Hakum. Tavush  CF     1      193.616    QCBS       Mar-01   May-01  Aug-01    Mar-02**
13 Design rehabilitation and safety equipment inst. - all superv.  CF       i      84.521     QCBS       May-01    Jul-01   Nov-01    Jun-02**
Vardakar
14 Design rehabilitation and safety equipment inst. + all superv.  CF:      1      78.594     QCBS       Sept-01   Nov-01   Feb-02    Oct-02*-
Aygedzor
Note * Design financed under IRP
Note: ** date of completion of design work. Supervision will be carried out until the end of the construction
period.
Consulting Services Individuals                                                      450,574
1 Short term international assistance for design Mngmt and     Cl          1      106.313      IC       Apr-99    Apr-99  May-99       Sep-99
Technical Specifications
2 Long term international dam specialist                        Cl         1      133.025      IC       May-99   Jun-99  Aug-99        Sep-04
3 Local consultant. Sociologist                                 Cl         I       1.852       IC        Jun-99    Jul-99   Aug-99     Oct-0)2
4 Consultants for PIU                                          Cl         10      209.384      IC        Jul-99    Aug-99  Sept-99     Sept-()4
Civil Works                                                      CW                21,477,795
IRehabilitation works Gegardalich, Bazmaberd. Khalavar, Arpilich.    CW    I     7.982.364    ICB       Apr-99    Jun-99   Oct-99  Oct -00 to Oct-
Kamut, Aparan, Tavshud                                                                                                                 01
2 Safety equipment installations works Kamut. Aparan. Gegardalich.    CW   I      197.261     NCB       Jun-99    Aug-99  Oct-99  Sept 00 to Sept
Bazmaberd, Khalavar. Arpilich.                                                                                                         (I
3 Safety equipment installations works Tavshut                 CW          I      51,183      NCB       Nov-00   Dec-00   Feb-00       Aug-00
4 Rehabilitation and safety equipment inst. Works Samapur      CW          I     1.025,832    ICB       Feb-00    Apr-00  Aug-00       Feb-02
5 Rehabilitation and safety equipment inst. Works Sovetashen   CW          I     1.855.495    ICB       May-00    Jul-00   Nov-00      Nov-02
6 Rehabilitation and safety eq. inst. works Sewaberd & Kakavdz  CW         I      781.637     ICB       Oct-00    Dec-00  Feb-01  Jul 02 to Jan 03
7 Rehab. and saf. Eq. Inst. Works David-Beck                   CW          1     1,571,743    ICB       Dec-00    Feb-01   Jun-01      Apr-03
8 Rehab. and saf. Eq. Inst. Works Gegarkunik                   CW          I      301.583     NCB       Mar-01    Apr-01   Jun-01      Feb-03
9 Rehab. and saf Eq. Inst. Works Azat                          CW          I     699,586      ICB       Mar-01    Apr-01   Jun-01      Feb-04
10 Rehab. and saf Eq. Inst. Works Mantash                      CW          1      820.772      ICB       Dec-02    Jan-02   Mar-02      Oct-03
1I Rehab. and saf. Eq. Inst. Works Tavush                      Cw           I     484.045      NCB       Jan-02    Feb-02   Apr-02      Jul-04
t2 Rehab. and saf Eq. Inst. Works Her Her                       CW          I     1,250,174    ICB       Aug-01    Oct-01   Feb-02      Sep-04
13 Rehab. and saf Eq. Inst. Works Hakum                         CW          I     2,093,581    ICB       Dec-01    Feb-02  Jun-02       Sep-04
14 Rehab. and saf Eq. lnst. Works Vardakar                      CW          I     1,243,602    ICB       May-02    Jul-02   Nov-02      Sep-04
15 Rehab. and saf Eq. lnst. Works Aygedzor                      CW          I     1,118.937    ICB       Aug-02   Oct-02   Feb-03       Sep-04



Page 50
TOT ICB                                                   20.443,723
TOT NCB                                                    1.034.072
Goods                                                                               2.993.303                                             Deliver
I Computer Equipment PIU and software for Dam Break Analysis    G          1      40.399       NS       Mar-99   Apr-99  May-99        Jun-99
2 Portable Monitoring Equipment for DME                         G          1      690.878     ICB        Apr-99    Jun-99   Sep-99     Oct-99
Telecommunication Equipment for DME
Safety Equipment Aparan, Karnut. Gegardalich, Arpilich. Kalawar.
Bazmaberd, Tawshud, Sarnapur. Sovetashen, Sewaberd.
Kakavadzor
3 Cars and snowmobiles                                          G          1      192.872      IS        Jul-99    Aug-99  Sep-99      Oct-99
4 Fumiture PIU                                                  G          1       5.316       NS                          Mar-00      Apr-00
5 Excavators, Tractors, bulldozers, trailer, mech. Workshop.    G          I     1.577.232     ICB       Jul-00    Aug-00  Sep-00      Oct-00
compressors and welding machines
6 Control Center DME Equipment                                  G          i      487.606     lCB       Mar-00   Apr-00  May-00        Jutt-0l
Safety equipment David-Beck, Gegarkunik. Azat. Mantash, Her
Her, Hakum. Tavush, Vardakar. Aygedzor
TOT ICB                                                    2.754,71h
TOT IS                                                      192.872
TOT NS                                                          45.715
Training                                                                             116.253
Training in procurement and study tour in dam safety management                 116,253
are foreseen. All activities have to be agreed with the Bank.
Operating Costs                                                                     1.143.781
Incremental Operation - DME (Vehicle and equipment maintenance and sparc       1.053,148
parts, fuel, utilities, office supply and incremental salaries)
Operation - PIU (Vehicle spare parts and maintenance, fuei,                     90.583
Communication and utilities. stationery and printing services. wvorkshop
conference expenses, bank services)
Fund                                                                               2,006.185Y
Emergency Repair Fund (use to be agreed and with prior approval                2.006,185
by IDA) including about US$ 100,000 to pilot 2 minihydro
stations.
Other                                                                                89.736
Social Security Contributions for PIU consultants                                89.736
GRAND TOTAL                                                                        30.299,645
Legend: ICB=lnternational Competitive Bidding: NCB=National Competitive Bidding; IC=lndividual consultant:
IS=lntemational Shopping: NS=National Shopping: CQ=Consultants'Qualifications; QCBS=Quality and Cost Based Selection:
MW=Minor Works
*=The procurement under the Emergency Repair Fund shall be as per provisions of the DCA (NCB-US$802,400; MW-US$802,400: and IS-
US$401,200)



Page 51
Armenia: Dam Safety Project
Annex 6 - Table D - Allocation Of Loan Proceeds
Suggested Allocation of Loan Proceeds
IDA (US$ '000)                  Total Project Cost        Average Disbursement %   l
Loan Amount Disbursement   Total    Local  Foreign   Total        Local    Foreign
l. Operating and               325.4         33.21   1E053.1  1.053.1       -     33.2        332        -
maintenance costs DME
2. Civil Works               17,970.3        88.0   23,484.0  9.105.6  14,378.4   88.0        69.1   100.0
3. Equipment                  2.850.9       100.0    2,993.3       -  2.993.3    100.0           -   100.0
4. Consultant Services        2,465.6        96.6    2.678.6  2,209.0    469.6    96.6        95.9   100.0
5. Operating and                33.5         40.7       90.6    90.6        -     40.7        40.7       -
Maintenance Costs of PIU
Unallocated                   2,988.5           -                           -                    -
Total                        26,634.5        87.91  30,299.7 12,458.4  17.841.31
IDA                    Loan Amounts
(US$ '000)            IDA (USS '000)           Unallocated                     Allocated
Total        Total       Local   Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign
1. Operating and               349.1         23.7      23.7        -      325.4     325.4        -
maintenance costs DME
2. Civil Works               20,665.9     2.695.6     820.1  1,875.4    17,970.3   5,467.4 12,502.9
3. Equipment                  2,993.4       142.5         -    142.5    2,850.9         - 2,850.9
4. Consultant Services        2,588.9       123.3     100.9    22.4    2,465.6   2,018.4   447.2
5. Operating and                 36.9         3.4       3.4        -       33.5       33.5       -
Maintenance Costs of PIU
Unallocated                        -            -         -        -          -         -
Total                        26,634.2      2,988.5    948.1  2,040.3    23,645.7   7,844.7 15,801.0
Loan amounts financed by IDA



Page 52
Armenia: Dam Safety Project
Annex 6 - Table E - Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                    % of
(Expressed in                   Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)                  To be Financed
(1) Goods, equipment          2,110,000            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
and vehicles                                   expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
(2) Works                     13,270,000           88%
(3) Consultants'               1,830,000           100%
services and training
(4) Operation and              240,000             90% of expenditures incurred prior to
maintenance costs of                           September 30, 2000, 70% for expenditures
DME                                            incurred prior to September 30, 2001, 50%
for expenditures incurred prior to September
30, 2002, 30% for expenditures incurred
prior to September 30, 2003 and 10% for
expenditures incurred thereafter
(5) Operating Costs           30,000               90% of expenditures incurred prior to
of the PIU                                     September 30, 2000, 70% for expenditures
incurred prior to September 30, 2001, 50%
for expenditures incurred prior to September
30, 2002, 30% for expenditures incurred
prior to September 30, 2003, and 10% for
expenditures incurred thereafter
(6) Unallocated             2,220,000
TOTAL                     19,700,000



Page 53
Annex 7
Dam Safety Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                             Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
S 70.000              S 70,000
B. Project Schedule                           Planned                Actual
(Atfinal PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (moonths)   6                     6
First Bank mission departure (identification)  11/09/99              11/09/99
Appraisal mission departure                   3/22/1999              3/22/1999
Negotiations                                  05/17/1999             05/13/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 10/01/1999             10/01/1999
Prepared by: Preparation Team of the Project Imiplementation Unit for the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project under the Ministry ofAgriculture. Manager. Adibek Kazarian
Preparation assistance: PHRD TF027096-AM
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Salem Gafsi                                   Team Leader
Joseph Goldberg                               Sector Leader
Alessandro Palmieri                           Dam safety
Mark Lundell                                  Economics
Giuseppe Fantozzi                             Financial analysis, Social issues
Ezedine Hadj-Mabrouk                          Environmental issues
Jagdish Jassal                                Procurement
Abdul Haji                                    Financial management
Sharifa Kalala                                Team assistant
David Bontempo                                Team assistant
This project was initially a component of a larger project (Irrigation Development Project), the
preparation of which is still underway.



Page 54
Annex 8
Dam Safeny Project
Documents in the Project File*
Ministry ofAgriculture - Preparation Report: Deam . Safetv Project - Januarl, 1998
Ministry ofAgriculture - Project Implementation Plan - .4pril. 1999



Page 55
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference
between exp.
and actual
Project       Fiscal                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions disburs. a/
Cancellati Undisb
ID            Year Borrower          Purpose         IBRDIDA       ons        ursed  Orig Frn Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
AM-PE-51171  1999  REPUBLIC OF   SAC III              0.00   65.00        0.00   49.95  6.39      0.00
ARMENIA
GOVERNMENT TITLE
AM-PE-57560  1999   OFEAMENI    REGISTRATIO   0.00             8.00       0.00    8.40  0.00      0.00
AM-PE-35805  1998  REPUBLIC OF   MUNICIPAL            0.00    30.00       0.00   29.12  -.28      0.00
ARMENIA         DEVELOP.
AM-PE-35806  1998  REPUBLIC OF   AGRIC.               0 00    14.50       0.00   13.69  3.75      0.00
ARMENIA         REFORM SUPP.
AM-PE-50140  1998  REPUBLIC OF   HEALTH               0.00    10.00       0.00    9.63  2.74      0.00
ARMENIA
AM-PE-51026  1998  REPUBLIC OF   SATAC II              0.00    5.00       0.00    3.80  3.45      0.00
ARMENIA
AM-PE-8281   1998  REPUBLIC OF   EDUCATION            0.00    15.00       0.00   13.22  -.03      0.00
ARMENIA
AM-PE-8279   1997  REPUBLIC OF   ENTERPRISE    0.00    16.75              0.00   10.88  6.38      0.00
ARMENIA         DEVELOP.
AM-PE-35765  1996  REPUBLIC OF   HIGHWAY              0.00    31.00       0.00   10.75 -4.85      4.38
ARMENIA
AM-PE-35768  1996  REPUBLIC OF   SOCIAL               0 00    12.00       0.00    2.70  .11       0.00
ARMENIA         INVEST. FUND
AM-PE-44387  1996  ARMENIA           ADJUST. TA       0.00     3.80       0.00    1.50  1.67      0.00
AM-PE-35757  1995  GOVT. OF          POrER            0 00    13.70       0.00    .24  .60        0.00
ARMENIA         MAINTENANC            
AM-PE-8277   1995  GOVTA OF          IRRIGATION       0.00   43.00        0.00   19.88 16.09      0.00
ARMENIA         REHAB.
Total                                                 0.00  267.75        0.00  173.76 36.02      4.38
Active Projects       Closed Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                 91.97                221.81      313.78
of which has been repaid:                0.00                    .19        .19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                267.75                218.51      486.26
Amount sold                                                     0.00                   0.00       0.00
of which repaid                                                 0.00                   0.00       0.00
Total Undisbursed                                             173.76                   0.00     173.76
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal



Page 56
Annex 10 Armenia at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central      Low.      _
Armenis       Asia  income        Development dlamond-
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         3.8       476     2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     530      2,320       360
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        2.0     1,106       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          0.8       0.2        2.1
Labor force (0.6                                                  0.5        2.3     GNP        .                     Gros
per -~~~~~-----' primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natonal poveruy line)     ..
Urban population (% of total populaton)                 89         67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bliths)                14         26        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 6)               ..        ..        61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                                       71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ..         .        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   85         92        91 DArmenla
Male                                                   ..        ..       100                   Low-income group
Female                                                 ..        ..        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996       1997
Economic ratlos-
GOP (US$ billions)                                      2.5        1.6       1.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..    32.7         7.7       10.7
Exports of goods and services/GOP               ..       ..      23.1      20.3                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    36.9      -25.1      -27.9
Gross national savings/GOP                      ..       ..      -7.9       -8.8
Current account balance/GDP                     ..       ..    -26.8       -29.0     DomestIc                     Investment
Interest payments/GDP            ,.                                1.3       1.5     Savings
Total debt/GDP                                  ..       ..      38.6       49.8
Total debt service/exports                      .,       ,,      17.7       11.9
Present value of debtGDP                        ..       ..      24.4
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..      91.7                             Indebtedness
1976-86  1987.97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  5.8    -14.5       5.8       3.1        5.9               Armenia
GNP per capita                       4.1    -12.9       8.0       5.4        5.7             ---Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    -4.2       14.6       1.2        7.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
`1976    1988      1998       1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           s
Agriculture                                            19.8      44.6       44.7        1
Industry                                        ..    55.4       35.6      35.7       0  _d*_
Manufacturing                                 .. ..             25.2      25.4    .                                    97
Services                                        ..    24.8       19.8       19.6    t50o
Private consumption                                    45.7     113.1      114.9    .100-
General government consumption                         17.4      12.1       13.0               _GDI          -    DP
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      55.9      58.9                     G-I .G.P
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    0.8     -5.2        1.0       2.7    75-
Industry                                       5.5    -21.4        1.2       3.0    to -
Manufacturing                                5.6    -14.3        1.4       3.3    25
Services                                       7.6    -15.3        8.3      20.8    2sc                      - - -   go -7
Private consumption                            4.2    -13.1       6.5        0.3    26 .   '2k         w    ss   s6
General govemment consumption                  3.5     -2.2      14.1        6.2    so 
Gross domestic investment                      7.3    -16.2     -17.4       40.9     7 -
Imports of goods and services                   ..    -4.4        8.1        2.8                  Exports      * imports
Gross national product                         5.8    -12.0       8.4        5.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 57
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997     Iinfitlorn(%j)
Domestic pricesi
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                 18.6      14.0    4,000
Implicit GDP deflator                        o.6      1.1       19.5      17.3   13,00         
12,000 t
Government finance                                                                11.0o
(% of GDP, includes cufrent grants)                                                           -       - 
Current revenue                                                 16.2      17.8              92   93   94  9s   05   97
Current budget balance                                   ,      -3.5      -3.0    i         -GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -10.1     .8.0
TRADE
(USSmillions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997    F Export andImport levels (USS milions)
Total exports (fob)                                              290      234    1so00
Gold, jewelry, and other precious stones                       126       102         T
Mineral products and metals                            ,        55        47         t
Manufactures                                                    45        36    13000t
Total imports (cif)                                              758      793
Food                                         ..259                       270
Fuel and energy                                                220       226     '     _
Capital goods                                                   32        34       0         _ _      _      _      _
91  92  93  94  90  go  97
Export price index (1995-100)                  ..       ..      1O5        93    j
Import price index (1995=100)                                    104      109                 U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       102       86
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                       1986      1996      1997    [Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and services                                   368       330      
Imports of goods and services                                    892      959          91   _    _     m m m m
Resource balance                                                -524     4e28    .10 l.
Net income                                                        22       95
Net current transfers                                             74       61    -20 
Current account balance                                         -428      -472                             flE E
-30 
Financing items (net)                                            438      528
Changes in net reserves                                 ,        -10       -56     401
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..       168      247
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUS$)                 ..  1.62E-2     414.0    491.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1916       199I     1997
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             e1s      810
IBRD                                                            10       12                 G:62  A: 10
IDA                                          .        ..       174      240
Total debt service                                                75       55                                   B:174
IBRD                                                             0        1
IDA                                                              1        1
Composition of net resource flows                                                     E: 200
Official grants                               ,        ,       179      154
Official creditors                                             173      185
Private creditors                                               `1        2
Foreign direct investment                                       18       51                                 C 117
Portfolio equity                                                 1        2                  D: 46
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    64       107       .ISRD                      E - Bilaterat
Disbursements                                                   92       77     B  DA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                                             0         0       - IMF                      G - Short-ter
Net flows                                                      92        77
Interest payments                                                1        2
Net transfers                                                  91        76






GEORGIA  .  ,*~~~~~~~~~~~~~__sit:-.                                                                                               -.                                        7~~~~~~~~~~~~~..A.   [BED 30286~~~~~~~BR  328
GEORGIA                       :,, \                                  -    \s              ;                          \v.                      GEORGIA                        r   -,                   '
1_4~~~~~~~~~~, 
N  .,..'./  '-'-'V                                                 N                                                                /                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKRAINE
r-.-d                                     AloverTi NmhmierCcrn ',                                                                                                                                                                   K  RUSSIAN = ,\ " :AZAKHCISTAN
A         .R-i                                                       ,          -DEION ,RIN
,  .  -  W - .* ; .C    -           0Ashirs              o                                               ,                                                                                -              -         FEORR;ZASOi'                           Arol
* ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Uecv,                                                   i,      'st j< M\IiOV
0Asots VCa<nO.r,                                                  4 'i -       -.a. .c                   ,AR
,>  ;   ]   . <  -,    .0~~ -. .                                    AV YERiA .d>    N    %2ACArO4                                                  RESERVO/R                                          AREI CQEE   IAEEROR
_40. ~      ~        CKrnu         - _.                         I  C-Dilijr  -                              #X         .__                                                                                                       .NTOALAI
AUCCCCKC  -C.)                       '-C~P,-6   -0                                          'RO                                                                                    -   -A*-'                 K
Rey ,r                    e    r -r               kYA                                                                                                                        R   I V E R B   A-.
Morolik~                                                  CT'f TASHAT  -vd    -          CAEVR .p>    RE    .    IRA -                                                                                                         0NERAIOA   IOUDANE
TURKE 'YC'   5                                        0            >                                      EN R4       N                     R                                  TUKE                                 A      
C~~~~ ~ ~ ~ - -\                                                                               _'-'e, ArgegolsO a;    ,.Usev,              I.v @HR.
OK. -t~~~~~~~~~~~C 
Ardgots, Ad                                                                                                             ii t            GrsO ~         r 
YR  VNOP*OSPrO4X   Eo9rrrob-                    C         ISLAMIC                                         N                                                                *                                         10         20         30    0SNM      L
X_IOU WEnOZ;nKokovo4z_n       ASHA K!                nF IIA I 7                                          \ GAA                                              -.OOC  .. '--                   DA        SA ET     PROJECT
0n ISXS M SP Xb nOP suply af   t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   IA
-^@P- _f          ChD .ol gS n'ord.1                                                                                        MEt
0cofiph_ne     YERVAN -h                                   _                        '   ,                                                                      RESERVOI'RS7
Toukhkrdoo     -  ,            o          oS
40                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITA
4d'                                                       CZ 45                                  4RBA                                                                 RIVER                                                 48'
I ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ATS-A   oVd               I                                                        I                                                        -_    .EIO  MAR  BOUNARIE
,d9ch  I!  q,                               -V                            !AKE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVC7    EBNDQ
/                                                                        Mc...
ARMAVI           0I                                                             .                1
r..T.N                                                                                         Uav~~~~~~~~~~,   - ~~~O.          -Di
OmZREGIOAIJARZ)CAPITAL
40'~~~~ NATIONALVAN                                                                                                                                                                                           CAPTC
J.'MA~~~~~~S
ArU TURKMdsEY                                               Hr'o,H'                                                                             ' 
pnCn of An W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A Rank~~~~Agehao
A'CNC.CVIMACCnCCNCE.  1                                                                                                                         IZER'AIJA
A 'CyCOCC-CY7  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAJTCEAN 
vCYCL.IdoC2.sC* CCY6. Kyleg-
44N/"'4tN''.j,,                                                                                                         *47'                                                                                                     U
MAY 1999



