Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3260 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Dam Safety Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 7, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3260 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
Page  2
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Charter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DME" means Dam Maintenance Enterprise established pursuant to the Order  
of the Ministry of Agriculture No. 464, dated December 30, 1997, or any legal 
successor thereto;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories  (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Borrower 
under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 2667 AM) or any legal 
successor thereto; 
(e)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(f)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 
commencing December 1, 2009 and ending June 1, 2034. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on June 1, 2019, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Bank and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment date referred 
to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, dam safety, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall: (a) open a Project Account in a commercial 
bank with an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to at least $250,000; (b) 
Page  4
maintain said Project Account with a minimum balance, through [quarterly]monthly 
replenishments, equivalent to $100,000, or such other amount as may be agreed by the 
Association from time to time; and (c) use the funds of said Project Account 
exclusively for financing the implementation of the Project.  
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project 
and the Program; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or the Project 
Page  5
Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
October 1, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to shall prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project , both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause DME to prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause DME to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
  the Borrower has employed a dam safety specialist, with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and 
Page  6
(b) 
the Borrower has opened a Project Account in a commercial bank with an 
initial deposit in local currency equivalent to at least $250,000. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance  and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shougarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit   
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  7
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, equipment
   2,110,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(2)
Works
  13,270,000
88%
(3)
Consultants’
   1,830,000
100%
services and training
training
(4)
Operation and      
     240,000
90% of expenditures
maintenance costs of    
incurred prior to September
DME
30, 2000, 70% for
expenditures incurred prior
to September 30, 2001, 50%
for expenditures incurred
prior to September 30,
2002, 30% for expendi-
tures incurred prior to
September 30, 2003 and
10% for expenditures
incurred thereafter
(5)
Operating Costs
      30,000
90% of expenditures
of the PIU 
incurred prior to September
30, 2000, 70% for
expenditures incurred prior
to September 30, 2001, 50%
for expenditures incurred
prior to September 30,
2002, 30% for expendi-
tures incurred prior to
September 30, 2003 and
10% for expenditures
incurred thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
    2,220,000
TOTAL
   19,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the  term  "operation and maintenance costs of DME" means incremental 
operating expenditures incurred by DME, including expenditures for fuel, office 
supplies, utilities, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication costs, audit 
expenses and staff salaries; and
(d)
the term "operating costs of the PIU" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, including: office supplies, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, utilities, and communications, banking charges and 
audit expenses.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  8
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 750,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)- through (5) before 
that date but after April 1, 1999.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent per contract except for the first two contracts to 
be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1, Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent per 
contract; (iii) services provided by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) services provided by individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent per contract;  (v) training; and 
(vi) operating costs of the PIU and operation and maintenance costs of DME, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in [Dollars] a separate special deposit 
account,  in a commercial bankAssociation acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
Page  9
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A  to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $2,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 3,700,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  10
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the  Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase safety of dams facing the 
highest risk of failure; and (ii) to enhance sustainability of operation of dams.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of MainPrimary Irrigation Dams 
Rehabilitation of twenty (20) selected\02  mainprimary irrigation dams, including 
design and supervision, field tests, repair works and provision of hydraulic steel 
structures.
Part B:
Dam Safety Sustainability 
1.
Development of operation and maintenance plans and emergency preparedness plans, 
and establishment of emergency warning systems for twenty (20) rehabilitated dams. 
2.
Provision of dam safety site installations. 
3.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of DME through provision of the 
necessary survey communication and monitoring equipment and vehicle, and through 
financing the DME’s incremental operation and maintenance costs. 
4.
Carrying out investigations and emergency interventions on the otherfifty-four 
(54) selected \02secondary  irrigation dams, not included for rehabilitation under Part 
A of this Schedule, and six (6) energy dams.
Part C:
Project Management 
Provision of equipment, technical assistance and financing of incremental 
operating costs of the PIU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Association Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
Page  11
1996, September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Association 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,8401,050,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors  in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
Page  12
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; and (ii) the first two contracts for works to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Association Bank Borrowers" published by the Association Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Association 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for carrying out design for rehabilitation works under Part of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for carrying out design works for dam rehabilitation works estimated to 
cost $150,000 equivalent in aggregate may be contracted on the basis of consultants’ 
Page  13
qualifications in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.7 of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines. 
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying out audits required under Section 4.01 of the Agreement 
and estimated to cost less than $114,000 equivalent in aggregate, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for Project management, carrying out of an independent review of 
rehabilitation works and for other tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, but less than $50,000 equivalent, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain the PIU within the Ministry of Agriculture; and
(b)
assign to the PIU the responsibility for Project management and 
implementation, including: (i) preparation by September 15 of each year, commencing 
from September 15, 1999, of annual work programs and associated budgets for the 
Project, reviewed and agreed upon with the Association; (ii) preparation of bidding 
and contract documents and the undertaking of procurement procedures under the 
Project; (iii) maintenance of project records including the Special Account and the 
Project Account, and arranging for the audit thereof; and (v) preparation and 
furnishing to the Association of Project Management Reports.
2.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  14
(a) 
maintain a dam safety expert referred to in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, who shall be responsible inter alia, for: (i) regular independent reviews 
of the dam rehabilitation works under the Project; (ii) continued reassessment of the 
Project methodologies and approach; and (iii) development of recommendations with 
respect to Project implementation; and 
(b)  
take all necessary actions to implement recommendations. of a dam safety 
expert prepared pursuant to paragraph (a) hereinabove.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2001 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter. 
4.
Not later than October 31, 1999, the Borrower shall finalize, in consultation 
with the Association,  an environmental management plan indicating mitigation measures 
to be taken, inter alia, with respect to the disposal of construction debris and the 
opening of quarries at dam sites, and shall implement such measures with respect to 
each civil works contract to be financed under the Project.
5.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall periodically organize 
public information campaigns to ensure that the population living downstream of the 
dams to be rehabilitated under the Project: (i) shall be involved in the design and 
introduction of early warning systems and the associated emergency evacuation plans; 
and (ii) shall be consulted by DME and contractors in the course of planning 
rehabilitation works to minimize the interruption of the flow of irrigation water.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
establishauthorize a Technical Consultative Commission the State Experts 
Commission by December 31, 1999 to provide an independent assessment of operation and 
maintenance requirements of each dam rehabilitated under the Project for the next 
three (3) years; and
(b) 
not later than November 15 of each year during Project execution 
commencing from [November 15, 2000], submit to the parliament the proposed annual 
budgetary allocations to DME, which shall be based on the assessment prepared by the 
Technical Consultative CommissionState Experts Commission pursuant to paragraph (a) 
hereinabove and on the amount of revenues effectively received by DME for the sale of 
irrigation water during the previous fiscal year. 
