                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001144



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-32600)



                                     ON A

                                 CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR19.7 MILLION
                      (US$26.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                 FOR THE

                          DAM SAFETY PROJECT



                              March 11, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2010)

                      Currency Unit = Armenian Dram
                          100.00 AMD = US$ 0.27
                         US$ 1.00 = 376.69 AMD


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMD       Armenian Dram
ARS       Armenian Rescue Service
ARSP      Agriculture Reform Support Project
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DME       Dam Maintenance Enterprise
DSP       Dam Safety Project
EMA       Emergency Management Agency
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EPP       Emergency Preparedness Plan
EWS       Early Warning System
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FM        Financial Management
FMR       Financial Management Report
FSU       Former Soviet Union
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOA       Government of Armenia
ha        Hectare
I&D       Irrigation and Drainage
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Irrigation Development Project
IDSP II   Irrigation Dam Safety II Project
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IOI       Intermediate Outcome Indicator
IP        Instrumentation Plan
IREP      Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project
IRP       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ISR       Implementation Status Report
KW        Kilowatt
KWh       Kilowatt hour
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
m         meter
m3        Cubic meter
m3/s      Cubic meter per second
Mm3       Million cubic meters
MASC      Marz (Province) Agriculture Support Center
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MTEF      Mid-Term Expenditures Framework
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NPV       Net Present Value
NWASP     North West Agricultural Services Project
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAR       Population At Risk
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMB       Project Management Board
POI       Project Outcome Indicator
RRP       Risk Reduction Profile
QER       Quality at Entry Review
SCWM      State Committee for Water Management
SCDS      Summary Coefficient for Dams Sustainability
SOE       Statement of Expenses
TA        Technical Assistance
TORs      Terms of Reference
TRP       Title Registration Project
USAID     United States Department for International Aid
WFP       World Food Program
WSA       Water Supply Agency
WSDP      Water Sector Development Project
WUAs      Water Users Associations
WUFs      Water Users Federations
XDR/SDR   Special Drawing Rights




                      Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                   Country Director: Asad Alam
                     Sector Director: Peter D. Thomson
                     Sector Manager: Dina Umali Deininger
                Project Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi
                   ICR Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi
                                                  ARMENIA
                                               Dam Safety Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 28
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP
A. Basic Information
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:          Irrigation Dam Safety
Project ID:             P064879                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-32600
ICR Date:               03/11/2010              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 19.7M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 19.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 19.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 State Committee for Water Management
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/02/1998     Effectiveness:                            04/06/2000
                                                                               12/01/2000
Appraisal:            03/22/1999     Restructuring(s):
                                                                               03/29/2005
Approval:             06/24/1999     Mid-term Review:                          12/10/2002
                                     Closing:                03/31/2005        09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Highly Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Highly Satisfactory                    Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      22                  22
Irrigation and drainage                                                78                  78


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 28                  28
Natural disaster management                                            29                  29
Rural services and infrastructure                                      14                  14
Water resource management                                              29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Asad Alam                             Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger                  Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:       Giuseppe Fantozzi                     Salem Gafsi
ICR Team Leader:           Giuseppe Fantozzi
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Bautista Morelli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) as stated in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) dated October 7, 2000 were: (i) to increase safety of dams facing the
highest risk of failure; (ii) to enhance sustainability of operation of dams.




                                                   ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original PDOs were revised in the Amendment to the DCA dated December 1, 2000
to read as: #The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase safety of dams facing the
highest risk of failure; (ii) to enhance sustainability of operation of dams; and (iii) to
provide critical agricultural inputs to the population affected by drought.#

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target       Completion or
                                            documents)           Values        Target Years
                Dams included under the project rehabilitated plus dams added to the project
Indicator 1 :
                according to the Amendment to DCA rehabilitated.
Value
quantitative or 0                           20                  27               26
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                    10/07/2000          03/29/2005       09/30/2009
                In the project documents 20 dams were originally planned to be rehabilitated. Six
Comments
                plus one (rehabilitation of Marmarik dam is still underway) were added later
(incl. %
                through amendment to be financed by cost savings). Currently, the target is
achievement)
                achieved by 96.3%.
                Number of people protected downstream of dams (originally planned under the
Indicator 2 :
                project plus additional) for which rehabilitation works are completed.
Value
quantitative or 0                           353,600             537,900          373,900
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                    10/07/2000          03/29/2005       09/30/2009
                The target is achieved by 70%. However, with the completion of Marmarik dam
Comments
                in June 2010 the number of people protected downstream of rehabilitated dams
(incl. %
                will be 537,900 - additional 182,300 people or by about 52% more than the
achievement)
                originally planned target.
                Summary coefficient for Dam Maintenance Enterprise sustainability (SCDS) for
Indicator 3 :
                the group of 20 dams originally included under the project.
Value
quantitative or 0.08                        0.71                                 0.71
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                    10/07/2000                           09/30/2009
                This indicator takes into account sustainability of the Dam Management
Comments
                Enterprise through availability of: (i) financing; (ii) transport units; and (iii)
(incl. %
                machinery for operation and maintenance. For the group of 20 dams it has
achievement)
                achieved the target by 100%.
                Summary coefficient for Dam Maintenance Enterprise sustainability (SCDS) for
Indicator 4 :
                the group of seven dams (after the amendment).
Value
quantitative or 0.08                                            0.7              0.61
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                                        03/29/2005       09/30/2009



                                               iii
Comments        This is the same indicator as above but for the group of seven dams. Currently,
(incl. %        the achievement of the target is at 85.5% and will reach the target of 0. 61 after
achievement)    completion of rehabilitation works on the Marmarik dam in June 2010.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
                Number of villages for which Early Warning System is installed (originally
Indicator 1 :
                planned plus additonal).
Value
(quantitative   0                           151               182             156
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                    10/07/2000        03/29/2005      09/30/2009
                Current achievement of the target is at 87%. However with the completion of
Comments
                rehabilitation of the Marmarik dam in June 2010, the target of 182 villages will
(incl. %
                be reached and the achievement will exceed by 20% the originally targeted 151
achievement)
                villages.
Indicator 2 : Summary Risk Coefficient for 20 dams
Value
(quantitative   0.63                        0.07                              0.07
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                    10/07/2000                        09/30/2009
Comments
                The target of 0.07 was reached in March of 2004 (100% achievement) after
(incl. %
                completion of rehabilitation of all 20 dams originally included under the project.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Summary Risk Coefficient for seven additional dams.
Value
(quantitative   0.55                                          0.10            0.23
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/1999                                      03/29/2005      09/30/2009
                Currently the target is achieved by more than 71%. The target of 0.10 will be
Comments
                reached after completion of works on Marmarik dam, rehabilitation of which is
(incl. %
                still underway through the Government of Armenia funds and expected to be
achievement)
                over in June, 2010.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/30/1999           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/23/1999           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     02/02/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     07/18/2000           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.30



                                                iv
 5     01/17/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   1.30
 6     03/20/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   1.73
 7     09/10/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   6.31
 8     12/05/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   8.30
 9     06/21/2002        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              10.19
 10    12/26/2002        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              13.04
 11    04/23/2003        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              14.42
 12    08/07/2003        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              14.84
 13    03/18/2004        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              15.57
 14    05/06/2004        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              16.72
 15    11/24/2004        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              17.31
 16    04/02/2005        Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory              17.31
 17    10/24/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  18.26
 18    09/13/2006        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  18.73
 19    05/24/2007        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  21.36
 20    03/17/2008        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  23.59
 21    02/03/2009        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  24.40
 22    12/04/2009        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  27.05


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/01/2000       Y       S       S           1.30
                                                     Another amendment to DCA,
                                                     (signed by the Country Director
                                                     for Armenia on February 16,
                                                     2005, and countersigned by the
                                                     Minister of Finance and
                                                     Economy of the Republic of
                                                     Armenia on March 29, 2005),
                                                     did not change the PDO. Only
                                                     the number of dams to be
                                                     rehabilitated was increased from
 03/29/2005       N       S      HS          17.31
                                                     20 to 27, to be financed with the
                                                     cost savings obtained during
                                                     implementation. Additionally,
                                                     as a repeater project # Irrigation
                                                     Dam Safety II Project (IDSP II)
                                                     - was approved in June 2004, as
                                                     a byproduct of the DSP smooth
                                                     implementation, the final
                                                     objective of DSP together with
                                                     IDSP II was expanded to bring


                                          v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     the technical state and
                                                     operational conditions of the
                                                     whole dam system in Armenia
                                                     into compliance with
                                                     international standards resulting
                                                     in increased safety of
                                                     downstream population and
                                                     associated socio-economic
                                                     activities and infrastructure.
                                                     Although strictly speaking this
                                                     is a different project, DSP
                                                     resulted in a much larger scope
                                                     than what was the original DSP
                                                     PDO.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                               Highly Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                       Highly Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                  Highly Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             vi
                  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
        Armenia is a land-locked country in the South Caucasus region with about three
million inhabitants. At the time of project appraisal the Armenian economy was
undergoing severe adjustments following the collapse of the Former Soviet Union (FSU),
including the privatization of land. The early 1990s were marked by post-independence
fiscal crises, hyperinflation, and the consequences of an armed conflict with Azerbaijan.
During the late 1990s and early 2000s, the Government of Armenia (GOA) carried out a
successful stabilization program and structural reforms that resulted in rapid economic
recovery with macroeconomic stability and low inflation.
        At the end of the 1990s, agriculture was a dominant sector in the economy
providing 50 percent of employment and contributing about 30 percent of the Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). Out of a total of 420,000 hectares (ha) of cultivable area in the
whole country (280,000 of which were potentially irrigable), only about 150,000 ha were
irrigated while roughly 130,000 ha had reverted to dry land due to failure of irrigation
pumping and conveyance systems designed during the Soviet era. To address these
issues, the GOA had initiated a program to rehabilitate the irrigation systems and to give
water users a stake in its management. Several emergency interventions aimed at keeping
the system operational and slowing the rate of its deterioration, were implemented1.
However, progress was slow. In this context the Irrigation Development Project (IDP)
was conceived at the end of the 1990s as part of the ongoing national program supporting
the rehabilitation and restructuring of the Irrigation and Drainage (I&D) systems in
Armenia. At preparation it was foreseen to be a large project of about US$100 million, as
stated by its original ambitious name: Water Sector Development Project (WSDP). One
of its largest components - Dam Safety - became then a US$30.3 million stand-alone
project, the Dam Safety Project (DSP) as the GOA and the Bank realized during
preparation that there was an imminent threat of major loss of life and economic assets2.
       The Bank's main country assistance goal in the agricultural sector as indicated in
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (August 26, 1997) was to facilitate private sector
development by helping the GOA address basic infrastructure and institutional

1
   The first phase of this long-term program consisted of emergency interventions to secure continuity of irrigation
system operation, along with pilot/demonstration activities to develop a practical methodology for improving system
management. Implementation was initiated under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP), with financial support
from the International Development Association (IDA) and International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD). It
was followed by the IFAD-supported North West Agricultural Services Project (NWASP) and with the Dam Safety
Project (DSP) it was expected to conclude the emergency intervention phase. The second phase of the program was
expected to be the restructuring and development phase focusing on building a solid basis for system sustainability
through physical upgrading of the infrastructure and empowerment of stakeholders to prevent its deterioration.
2
  Three complete dam failures occurred in Armenia in 1974, 1979 and 1994. Considering the number of dams existing
in Armenia in those years, the percentage of failures (number of failures/number of existing dams) can be estimated in
the order of 2.1 percent (1974), 3.5 percent (1979) and 3.9 percent (1994). Two aspects were of concern: (a) the values
were considerably higher than the world-average value of 0.5 percent for dams built after 1951 (ICOLD); and (b) the
percentage values showed an increasing trend. From 1994 to 1998, six significant dam-related accidents occurred that
might have as well led to complete dam failures. All reported accidents could have been avoided if proper surveillance
and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) were in place.


                                                          1
constraints. This goal led to supporting critical investments to: (i) rehabilitate the
irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) create the enabling conditions for greater private sector
participation in the management, maintenance, and development of that infrastructure.
With dams supplying over 25 percent of the irrigation water, 10 percent of the domestic
water supply, and 20 percent of the power generation, their structural integrity was of
great importance to the well being of the population as a whole, and of critical
importance to those people living downstream of unsafe dams.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
        The primary objective of the DSP was to protect the population and the
socioeconomic infrastructure downstream of the 20 dams facing the highest risk of
failure. Achieving this objective would also enhance the sustainability of dam-based
economic activities in Armenia. Progress towards the project objective would be
measured in terms of: (i) the reduction of the risk, related to dam failure, to socially
acceptable levels for 360,000 people living under threat of high probability of failure of
the riskiest 20 dams; and (ii) the improvement of the risk profile for the totality of the
dam system in Armenia.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
        The project was restructured in December 2000 as a response to the GOA's
request to assist in mitigating severe drought consequences. The original PDO was
revised in the Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated December
1, 2000 to read as: "The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase safety of dams facing
the highest risk of failure; (ii) to enhance sustainability of operation of dams; and (iii) to
provide critical agricultural inputs to the population affected by drought." However, the
key indicators were not changed. Another amendment to DCA, (signed by the Country
Director for Armenia on February 16, 2005, and countersigned by the Minister of
Finance and Economy of the Republic of Armenia on March 29, 2005), did not change
the PDO. Only the number of dams to be rehabilitated was increased from 20 to 27, to be
financed with the cost savings obtained by an efficient Armenian implementation team.
In this case, the key indicators didn't change. However, the targets were revised to reflect
the change in the number of dams to be rehabilitated.
        Additionally, as a repeater project ­ Irrigation Dam Safety II Project (IDSP II) -
was approved in June 2004, as a byproduct of the DSP smooth implementation, the final
objective of DSP together with IDSP II was expanded to bring the technical state and
operational conditions of the whole dam system in Armenia into compliance with
international standards resulting in increased safety of downstream population and
associated socio-economic activities and infrastructure. This is much larger in scope than
what was in the original PDO.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
       DSP was an emergency type project aimed at addressing severe safety risks for a
population of about 360,000 people living downstream of the 20 riskiest dams. The
primary direct benefit from project interventions would be the reduction in the risk of


                                              2
dam failure ­ at the time considered to be very high by international standards - that
would affect the population and economic assets downstream. In addition, the project
would contribute to building institutional capability for operation and maintenance
(O&M) of the irrigation infrastructure. It would also have secondary benefits which were
important to the economy by helping secure the dams' productive function in enhancing
reliability of water supply for over 68,000 ha of irrigated agriculture (about 52 percent of
the actually irrigated area in Armenia), for fisheries, and for domestic water supply to
about 170,000 people.
        The project was largely national in scope as the 20 dams to be rehabilitated were
located in nine out of the 10 Marzes (provinces). Moreover, the project impact would
reach beyond the territory of Armenia as three of these dams were close to the border
with Azerbaijan. The number of people who could potentially be affected in Azerbaijan
was not known, but was thought to be substantial. The area which could potentially be
affected by floods resulting from dam failure was estimated at close to 680 square
kilometers.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
        The project's total anticipated cost was US$30.3 million, and the credit from the
International Development Association (IDA) amounted to US$26.6 million of this.
Project activities were organized under three components:
·        Rehabilitation of 20 primary irrigation dams at high risk of failure. The cost of
         this component was estimated at US$22 million. This first component supported
         structural repair works on critical parts affecting dam safety of 20 riskiest dams in
         Armenia, including: design and supervision, field tests, civil works, and hydraulic
         steel structures. All the dams were of the embankment type (either earthfill or
         rockfill), and needed repairs were classified in four categories: (i) upstream
         protection works; (ii) spillway structural repairs, (iii) leakage reduction; and (iv)
         irrigation-bottom outlet repairs3.
·        Dam safety sustainability The cost of this component was estimated at US$7.3
         million. It comprised of four subcomponents: (i) preparation of a Dam Safety
         Plan (US$0.2 million) for each dam to be rehabilitated, including an O&M plan
         and an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP); (ii) installation of dam safety
         equipment at each dam to be rehabilitated (US$1.7 million); (iii) improvement of
         the institutional capacity of the Dam Maintenance Enterprise (DME) (US$3
         million); and (iv) further safety investigation and implementation of emergency
         interventions at Armenia's other dams: 54 irrigation dams and six energy dams
         (US$2.5 million). Because of lack of resources, no allocation was included under
         the DSP for the rehabilitation of these other dams, but provisions were made for
         their close monitoring, along with technical investigations to clarify the safety


3
  At 11 of the dams (Arpilich, Khalavar, Vardakar, Sovietashen, David Beck, Aparan, Kamout, Mantash, Sarnakhpiur,
Kakavadzor2 and Her-Her ) provisions were made for increasing the capacity of the spillways to allow the safe passage
of the flood with a return period of 10,000 years. At seven of the dams (Aparan, Tavshud, Sovietashen, Kamout,
Sarnakhpiur, Gegardalich and W.Bazmaberd) provisions considered improving the stability of the dams under
earthquake loading.


                                                         3
       status of each dam, together with an Emergency Fund (US$2 million) to allow
       DME to intervene if threats to human life would appeared.
·      Project management. The cost of this component was estimated at US$1 million.
       It provided for the incremental operating costs of the existing Project
       Implementation Unit (PIU) throughout the duration of the project, designing
       activities, the services of the international dam safety expert, auditing costs,
       training of local specialists and gaining of international experience (a study tour).

1.6 Revised Components
        In 2000, a severe drought hit Armenia. To revive production emergency support
to the agricultural sector was requested by the GOA. It was important to include
immediate provision, on a grant basis, of field preparation works for planting, including
distribution, of appropriate seeds of wheat, barley and possibly potatoes for the spring
planting season. In order to supplement the low water levels in reservoirs and rivers, the
targeted repair of wells to access ground water was also required. The rural portfolio of
the Bank at that time included three projects: Agriculture Reform Support Project
(ARSP), Title Registration Project (TRP) and DSP, all implemented under the Ministry
of Agriculture (the State Committee for Water Management was established later, on
February 8, 2001, by the GOA Decree No. 92). Among these projects, DSP was the
newest one and didn't disburse much funds yet. Amending the DSP by adding a new
component to the project and using the resources under the unallocated category offered
the quickest method for providing Bank assistance. That approach was also supported by
the Board, and the first amendment became effective on December 1, 2000 adding an
Emergency Drought Component, budgeted to cost US$4.1 million, for rehabilitation of
tubewells, provision of seeds and sowing services for an area of about 40,000 hectares.

1.7 Other significant changes
        Several months before the original closing date all rehabilitation works in the 20
dams, and all the activities foreseen by the original project, had been satisfactorily
completed with significant cost savings. Disbursements amounted to about US$17.3
million, or 66.6 percent of the Credit amount. At the request of the GOA an amendment
to DCA became effective on March 29, 2005 allowing to use the generated unused credit
funds (about US$9 million) for financing a set of rehabilitation works in seven additional
dams that were excluded from the scope of the DSP at appraisal owing to insufficient
credit funds. These new works would complement others to be implemented under the
repeater IDSP II which was effective since December 8, 2004. The final objective of DSP
together with IDSP II would then be to bring the technical state and operational
conditions of the whole dam system in Armenia into compliance with international
standards resulting in increased safety of downstream population and associated socio-
economic activities and infrastructure.
        This second amendment, besides adding among project activities the
rehabilitation of seven additional dams, included the Marmarik dam, which was the
biggest single rehabilitation investment to be made under both DSP and IDSP II. The
rehabilitation of Marmarik was foreseen to last not less than two and a half years. Hence,
the second amendment also arranged for some changes in the Schedule I Table of the


                                            4
DCA, and provided a 30 months extension of the Closing Date until September 30, 2007.
A third amendment, gave a second 15 months extension until December 31, 2008 with
further reallocation of the Credit funds, which was agreed on August 15, 2006. The
fourth amendment approved on December 12, 2008, granted a further nine months
extension of the Closing Date until September 30, 2009. These two additional extensions
were necessary in order to finalize the more than US$12 million works (including GOA
cofinancing) in Marmarik dam that were behind schedule due to several reasons,
including : (i) delays in obtaining the state expertise (further studies were required); (ii)
delays in the tender process; and (iii) inclement weather conditions for the dam works.

              2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
        DSP investment was timely designed when the country's dam system was
disintegrating under the weight of management chaos and physical neglect following the
collapse of the FSU. Recognizing the potential catastrophic consequences of dam failure,
the GOA and the Bank agreed in 1999 to give priority to addressing urgent dam safety
issues by proceeding with the rehabilitation of the most deteriorated dams as a separate
DSP from the broader WSDP. The Bank response to the GOA for rapid interventions in
rehabilitating the 20 riskiest dams was appropriate and the operation proved to be
successful.
         Project design was pertinent to the issues at hand and targets were attainable. The
background analysis that was prepared by an experienced international consulting firm
and a local consulting company demonstrated clearly the need and urgency of this
intervention. Such analysis proved to be important in the selection of dams and
development of measures to be carried out under the project. Resource constraints at the
time led to limiting the scope of this project to 20 irrigation dams known to pose the most
severe safety risks out of a total of 87 dams (77 for irrigation, three for
irrigation/drinking, six for energy and one for recreational purposes). However,
recognizing the safety concerns associated with the other dams, provision was made
under the DSP design for: (i) technical investigations and monitoring the safety status of
the remaining dams; and (ii) creating an emergency repair fund to be used in case of
unforeseen and urgent rehabilitation interventions.
        Also, it was clear that there was a need for strengthening the capacity of the dam
agency to enable the GOA to manage and respond to emergency situations. Though the
existing PIU was experienced, the project rightly envisaged to strengthen its capacity
through training, as well as strengthening the dam management agency through providing
it with technical assistance, training and O&M equipment. The innovation in this
operation was that it was one of the few operations in the Bank to deal solely with dam
safety, and that it involved well balanced structural and non-structural measures to
improve dam safety. The proposed preparation of the dam safety plans and EPPs proved
to be very useful in enabling the dam management agency and the PIU to respond
appropriately and in a timely manner to emergency incidents such as the one that
occurred in the Vardakar dam in June 2005 (see details in Annex 2).



                                             5
       The risks identified at the project appraisal and effectiveness of the mitigation
measures were also pertinent. The risk of limited in-country construction capability
proved to be minimal. At first the dam rehabilitation works attracted mostly foreign
contractors; later the local firms, who gradually gained experience and requisite skills,
could also compete and were qualified to carry out such works.

2.2 Implementation
       The project suffered a six months delay in becoming effective. Effectiveness was
expected in October 1999 but the Armenian Parliament approved the operation later than
was anticipated and the project was declared effective in April 2000. However, this delay
was completely made up before the Mid Term Review (MTR) took place, as
demonstrated by the fact that for all planned civil works except one (Sewaberd dam, for
which investigations were still ongoing), contracts were already been procured.
Completion of all works was anticipated for December 2003, which was more than one
year ahead of the project's originally planned closing date. The delay in effectiveness
had even less influence on the other project activities since they were also ahead of
schedule.
        At MTR, the cost savings and the implementation progress in achieving the
objective of protecting the population within the 20 dams' downstream areas were
remarkable. There were two main reasons for savings: (i) at the time of project appraisal,
the number of construction companies existing in the country that were capable of
carrying out works on such a complicated hydraulic structure as a dam was limited and,
as a consequence, the competition was not high and estimated costs were higher; and (ii)
during the project implementation additional investigation works were carried out on all
20 dams and the initial designs were changed/adjusted, which resulted in a decrease of
originally estimated rehabilitation works and costs. The parallel urgent need to reduce
risks of dams' failure elsewhere and to improve the safety of the dams not included in the
original DSP design, together with the available detailed technical investigations and
plans for extending the safety program to all dams in Armenia - completed under the
third DSP component ­ led the GOA to request support for expanding the safety program
country-wide. In 2004, the extension of the scope and closing date of the DSP and the
approval of the repeater IDSP II re-launched the whole program. The envisaged extended
targets were finally attained at both projects' closing dates, though after some delays
stemming from the magnitude and nature of the Marmarik dam rehabilitation works,
process and uncertainties (see details in Annex 2).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
         According to the project design, the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit
established under the IRP and reporting to the Project Management Board (PMB) was
responsible for monitoring project inputs, outputs, and impact. This unit prepared the
DSP quarterly progress reports including information, analysis, and recommendations on:
(i) progress in the execution of various elements of the agreed work program, including
institutional development; (ii) procurement; (iii) expenditures; (iv) difficulties
encountered, proposed solutions or required assistance; (v) updated project cost
estimates, procurement, and implementation schedule; and (vi) updated estimates of


                                            6
performance indicators. An annual work plan and the associated budget was being
prepared and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each project year. During project
implementation, the M&E unit worked as a part of the PIU staff. The unit produced
reports which included: (i) annual work plans; (ii) quarterly progress reports; (iii) annual
progress reports; and (iv) updated procurement plans. This system provided accurate and
timely information to management and Bank supervision missions.
       Day to day supervision of rehabilitation works was carried out by local consulting
companies. The PIU engineers oversaw the work of the supervision companies and were
involved actively in the supervision of the rehabilitation works and reported frequently to
the PIU management.
       Also, as planned, an experienced international dam safety consultant was hired to
work with the PIU supervision engineers and undertook, twice a year, an independent
review of the scope and the quality of the dam safety program, and on that basis advised
the PIU and Water Supply Agency (WSA) on necessary improvements.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
         The project showed no unresolved fiduciary, environmental or any other
safeguard problems. The DSP activities did not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.
The project was rated as environmental category "B" taking into account the nature of the
planned activities (rehabilitation/reconstruction of existing infrastructure), expected
environmental benefits that stemmed from the rehabilitation of the dams under danger of
failure. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) specifying the mitigation measures
required was prepared and agreed between GOA and Bank. The original EMP prepared
for the DSP was revised slightly in 2005 to include seven additional dams. The EMP was
prepared in such a manner that environmental requirements (mitigation measures,
disposal of the repair construction materials/debris, monitoring and technical
specifications) related to the construction phase could be incorporated in the
bidding/contract documents. The EMP was implemented and monitored during the
construction phase by the contractor and the PIU.
        Overall, the PIU's internal controls system was capable of providing timely
information and reporting on the project. The quarterly reports on all the PIU
implemented projects have always been received on time and were found to be
satisfactory to IDA. The PIU's auditing arrangements and findings have been consistently
satisfactory. No significant issues have arisen in the audits of other IDA-financed projects
implemented by the PIU. The significant strengths that provided the basis for reliance on
the project financial management system included: (i) significant experience of PIU
Financial Management (FM) staff in implementing IDA-financed projects; (ii) adequate
accounting software utilized by the PIU, (iii) FM arrangements found to be adequate, (iv)
the unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued by the PIU managed
projects' auditors on the projects financial statements, and (v) timely received Financial
Management Reports (FMRs) always found to be acceptable to IDA.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
      It is clear that the project surpassed its original objectives and even expanded the
number of dams rehabilitated to 27 dams. Along with IDSP II which is also already


                                             7
closed, the dam safety program in Armenia can be considered to be completed.
However, adequate and regular maintenance of the rehabilitated dams is critical for the
sustainability of project benefits. Such maintenance will require sufficient institutional
and financial resources. Although, the capacity of the dam management agency has been
strengthened, its performance and carrying out its job would depend on the allocations
from the state budget and on the revenues they generate from selling water to users. The
GOA is committed to support that but present or future budget constraints may affect it.
        Although a follow up operation is not envisaged at this stage because of the two
dam safety projects have completed the work, it is clear that there is a need to optimize
the operation and use of the water stored behind the dams, especially in those that are
built as a cascade on rivers. Improvement of water management and implementation of a
computerized management and decision support system is needed for optimization and
may be part of a new operation for improving the water resource management. This
might result in the revision of the role of some the existing dams or in building new
dams.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
        The primary objective of the project of protecting the population (about 360,00
people) and the socioeconomic infrastructure down- stream of the 20 dams facing the
highest risk of failure was highly relevant given the deteriorating situation of dams in the
country since the collapse of the FSU. Achieving this objective has also enhanced the
sustainability of dam-based economic activities. It helped to secure the dams' productive
function by improving the reliability of water supply for over 68,000 ha of irrigated
agriculture, for fisheries, and for domestic water supply to about 170,000 people. In
addition, the project has contributed to building an institutional capability for O&M of
the irrigation infrastructure, and supported the development of private sector capacity in
consulting and contracting. As such the project was in line with the country strategy and
the Bank CAS in supporting agriculture and facilitating private sector development.
        During the project design, the preparation team was aware that it was facing with
difficult choices among dams to be rehabilitated, knowing that dams that had to be
rejected might be the ones to actually fail and kill people, even though all the analysis
was aimed at avoiding that. However, the project was designed and implemented so well
that with major project savings and an active repeater minor operation, all dams in
Armenia were upgraded to a status that can be considered as safe by international
standards.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
        The DSP was launched in 1999 to tackle the challenge of immediately
rehabilitating the 20 dams considered to be at highest risk. Structural measures were
completed including rehabilitation works such as attainment of dam body stability,
increase of spillway capacity, construction or rehabilitation of equipment and structures,
etc. It also implemented non-structural dam-safety measures, such as setting up
instrumentation and monitoring devices, early warning systems (EWS), and


                                             8
telecommunications systems. The attainment of the population at risk (PAR) or the dams'
risk reduction targets for the 20 dams was reached in 2004, several months before the
project original closing date as illustrated in the Risk Reduction Profile indicator shown
in Fig. 1.




       As can be seen in the figure, the PAR (vertical axis) was reduced to the targeted
levels with some delays (dates in horizontal axis) in the beginning of project
implementation necessitated by the nature of dam rehabilitation process and uncertainties
about that, however, it accelerated towards the end of the project original closing date,
combined with significant cost savings, and the envisaged target was attained after some
delays. The Figure clearly illustrates how that was achieved and the failure risks were
reduced to acceptable levels. Moreover, successful performance led to increasing by
seven the number of rehabilitated dams under the DSP credit and to a small (US$7.5
million) repeater project which extended the program to the entire country, including all
other dams at risk. Since the emergency drought component had diverted US$3.77
million from the DSP in year 2000, it can be said that with only US$3.73 million in


                                            9
addition to the original DSP cost, all dams needing rehabilitation in Armenia were
upgraded to a safe status protecting downstream people and socio-economic assets.
        The 20 dams originally included under the DSP and six out of the seven
additional dams were upgraded by 2006. About 375,000 people living downstream of
these dams are since protected. Rehabilitation of the seventh additional dam ­ Marmarik
(the biggest one) - is to be completed by June 2010, and about 164,000 additional people
living downstream will be also safe4. The original target of about 360,000 people
protected will be surpassed by more than 50 percent mainly due to efficient project
implementation and the investment of the cost savings for rehabilitating additional dams.
Implementation went through at a sustained pace without any major factor affecting
outputs. Only the Marmarik dam suffered from significant delays due to the magnitude of
the scheme. Annex 2 details the causes of the delays in Marmarik dam works. Annex 2
also details the June 2005 Vardakar dam accident, and how the quick response of the
EWS worked to avoid any downstream damages.
         Progress was also remarkable in strengthening the evolving institutional agency
managing the dams, enhancing the safety of the whole system. Dam Safety Plans, each
comprising an O&M Plan, an Instrumentation Plan (IP) and an EPP, have been
completed for the 27 rehabilitated dams. The dam safety site installations in all dams,
together with the O&M and the IP have been found satisfactory, as well as the training
activities that have been provided to dam operators of the relevant agency.
        The EPPs have been prepared in cooperation with the Emergency Management
Agency (EMA)5, the agency tasked with response to all natural and technological
hazards. EMA was authorized to prepare the EPPs by the decree of the GOA. The same
decree provided for mandatory implementation of the EPPs by the agencies,
organizations or local authorities identified therein. EPPs in general are not only dam-
related; for example, there are plans for the nuclear power plant and other strategic
infrastructures. They are prepared by EMA and submitted to the GOA for approval in
packages every two to three years and, prior to the GOA's decision on approval, the plans
are circulated among involved ministries and agencies. Early warning systems have been
installed for 156 villages in the areas downstream of all dams where rehabilitation works
have been completed. The number of sirens installed followed the preparation of
inundation maps that refined the dam break analysis used during project preparation. The
EMA continues to conduct awareness-raising campaigns by disseminating information
and simulating situations in selected communities.
        Equipment provided for the Dam Maintenance Enterprise (DME) cost US$3.0
million and included monitoring equipment, vehicles and heavy equipment, as well as
some operational costs. Training was organized for the DME operation staff of the 20
rehabilitated dams and for PIU staff. The purpose of the training was to make operational
staff familiar with institutional changes that were taking place or would occur after

4
  The rehabilitation of Marmarik dam has reached the final stage after four years of work. This final stage is under
GOA financing, and the Bank continues to monitor its progress given the amount of funds provided under DSP and the
importance of this dam for irrigation purposes in Armenia.
5
 Since July 2008 EMA was incorporated into the Armenian Rescue Service (ARS) under the recently established
Ministry of Emergency Situations.


                                                        10
rehabilitation works (construction of new structures, installation of new valves, etc.), and
to learn operating procedures of new structures to ensure their safe O&M towards timely
prevention of potential failures or emergency situations. The training target was also
exceeded since 122 dam operators were trained instead of 111 foreseen under the Project.
Training has been strengthened beyond the original design in light of the accident
occurred at Vardakar dam in June 2005. Four PIU technical staff also participated in
international training events, including on: (i) dam safety management in USA; (ii)
financial management in Italy; and (iii) procurement management in Italy.
        Cost of investigations and emergency rehabilitation works was US$2.4 million
and covered all the Armenian dams. Field and laboratory investigations were conducted
for the 20 DSP dams plus all other dams in the country to assess their technical state and
identify defects. As a result, the dams were prioritized based on the urgency of proposed
rehabilitation works. Seven dams were added to the DSP rehabilitation plans and other 47
dams were selected for rehabilitation under IDSP II.
        The emergency fund in the amount of US$2 million was provided for emergency
cases, should there be a need for urgent interventions. Rehabilitation works on Jajur and
Upper Sasnashen dams were financed from that fund (being two of the seven dams added
to DSP).
        The implementation of the fourth emergency component in response to the 2000
drought went according to the schedule. Since the amendment became effective on
December 1, 2000, it was not possible to perform field preparation works in 2000 and
that activity was shifted to the spring of 2001. Tender for importation of seeds (wheat and
barley) was announced on February, 16, 2001, and opening of proposals took place on
February 26, 2001. The first tranche of seeds (2,928.3 tons) entered the country on March
31 and April 1 of 2001. The second tranche of seeds (2,476.0 tons) arrived on April 9 and
10, 2001, and the last tranche (2,517.4 tons) on April 11, 2001. The national tenders for
field preparation works, including plowing, other pre-planting works, planting of seeds
were conducted under 48 lots, and as a result, contracts were signed with 28 contractors.
The costs of these works were US$1.97 million. This fourth component's activities were
successfully completed on time, at a total cost of about US$3.77 million.
3.3 Efficiency
        The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) stage for the expanded DSP was estimated at 33.3 percent which is higher than the
appraisal estimate of 32 percent. As considered in the PAD, an average dam failure rate
of 7.5 percent was used for the without the project scenario, and a reduction of 6.75
percent in the dam failure rate to 0.75 percent due to the project investments. The higher
ERR in this ex post exercise is reasonable since benefits estimated at appraisal are being
attained with huge cost savings, which allowed to expand the DSP coverage to the seven
additional dams including Marmarik dam, which is the biggest investment undertaken
with the support of the DSP and its follow-up repeater project.
        The same criteria adopted for the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) estimation
was used for the ICR assessment. As explained in Annex 3, costs and benefits were
adjusted based on actual values and with the new benefits stemming from the
rehabilitation of Marmarik dam (which required 93.5 percent of the cost savings invested


                                            11
in the seven added dams). Benefits included: (i) the reduced risk for potential flooding
and loss of 34 percent of total irrigated area in Armenia through guaranteed water supply
(annual farm net income of about US$40.5 million); (ii) the reduced risk of potential
destruction of 78,000 houses and damage to over US$2 billion worth of roads, irrigation
structures, and other public and private assets; and (iii) the rehabilitation of Marmarik
dam adding an expected benefit of US$3.4 million per year at maturity (year 2016) due to
the incremental water to be used for generation of electricity. Benefits from lives
protected (more than half a million people living downstream); and other benefits from
the other dams added were not considered because it is difficult to value lives protected,
and there is no data of assets under the six dams for its valuation.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
        The original PDO, with complete fulfillment of all international safety standards
and criteria, was achieved ahead of schedule and with significant cost savings. Alone, this
represents an implementation success. Additionally, the project's efficient
implementation allowed for the expansion of its targets to upgrade seven additional dams
that are now fully rehabilitated. Given the DSP success, a parallel repeater project - IDSP
II - was also implemented which resulted in a joint outcome of all the 87 dams in the
country being upgraded to an internationally acceptable dam safety status.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
        Irrigation increases agricultural productivity and incomes, and help to reduce
poverty significantly as it creates conditions for at least improving family income in rural
irrigated farms. DSP was instrumental in creating conditions for irrigation modernization
through improving the safety environment for private investment in previously high risk
irrigable areas. Additionally, it is restoring or improving irrigation in about 68,000 ha as
the storage capacity of the rehabilitated dams has increased from 380 million cubic
meters (Mm3) to 404 Mm3 as Marmarik dam is completed. Some of this area is being
incorporated to irrigation as water becomes available, and some other areas have yet to be
developed with adequate water conveyance canals that are expected to be extended in the
near future. Hence, since DSP improved the investment environment and/or secured a
reliable source of irrigation water supply for about 3,000 downstream farmers that are
increasing their incomes through irrigation, it can be said that it is contributing
substantially to increasing incomes, creating jobs and ultimately, reducing poverty.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
        Institutional strengthening under the DSP was delayed during the first years due
to the institutional changes that were being processed by the GOA. A Water Code and a
Law on Water Users Associations (WUAs) have been enacted and regulations were
adopted to support the implementation of the new legal framework. A Water Supply
Agency (WSA) has been created that unified the previous existing five agencies dealing
with I&D in the country, and it was given the responsibility, among the others, for the
management of dams. The GOA implemented a very important additional improvement
in March of 2006 abolishing the central administration of the WSA and transferring all
water supply functions to four regional branches established on a regional basis. The


                                              12
branches became separate legal entities and took the responsibility for O&M of
respective river basin's infrastructure and supply of irrigation water to WUAs of those
areas. Currently, there are three regional branches of the WSA that are providing water to
existing WUAs without requiring subsidies, and the introduction of Federations of
WUAs, will remove further responsibilities from WSA, reducing its sphere of action and
easing future efforts for its full restructuring. This is being addressed under the follow-up
Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project.
       Institutional reform in the irrigation sub-sector is still ongoing in Armenia, which
could have implications for the country's system of dams. It remains important for the
government to continue allocating the necessary resources to managing and maintaining
its dam system. The management of smaller dams should gradually be transferred to
WUAs and Federations of WUAs as soon as they are geared up in terms of financial and
technical capacities. Meanwhile, management capacity of the evolving water agencies
has been strengthened, as also was the capacity of the Emergency Management Agency
(currently Armenian Rescue Service under the recently established Ministry of
Emergency Situations), which now conducts effective outreach campaigns.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
        The project has contributed to building and supporting the development of private
sector capacity in construction and construction supervision in the country. At the
beginning of the project the capacity of those industries was weak. Local consultants
benefited from working with international consultants and the advice they received from
the PIU international dam specialist as well as the Bank team. Over time they gained
experience and were able to effectively address design and supervision of dam safety
measures. The same was the case with local contractors who gained a lot of experience
in dam rehabilitation works and could compete successfully with international
contractors.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
         No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was performed. However, there is
ample evidence of the highly positive beneficiaries' opinion. Hrahat Grigorian, Chief of
Hydro Section, Zangakatun Dam, Ararat Marz (province) expressed: "I was born in this
village. I live and work here, too. The construction of the dam started in the Soviet era
and was left unfinished in 1986. We could hardly use it, as the dam was in disrepair. We
have counted around 24-25 holes, the dam was close to destruction. It was an emergency
situation until the 2004 spring flood. If the flood that spring had continued, the dam could
have destructed at any minute. We even had to evacuate the residents living across the
river. In 2004 the dam's reconstruction started. We have no further problems, and people
are now safe."

                   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
       The case of Vardakar dam accident on June, 4 2005, illustrates how well the
preventive non-structural measures of the DSP respond in an emergency situation and
hence, why the risk to development outcome is considered to be modest. Rehabilitation
works of Vardakar dam were completed 18 months before the accident, which included


                                             13
small rehabilitation of the dam body, rehabilitation and enlargement of the existing spill
way and of the irrigation outlet. However, since zero risk is non-existent in dam safety
issues, damage to some parts of the spillway and the appearance of sinkholes next to the
spillway occurred due to a big flood that caused the water level in the dam reservoir to
rise quickly which could not be stopped or released due to the limited capacity of the
irrigation outlet. Since there was a danger that the dam would be breached, a quick and
appropriate response by the local authorities and the PIU averted that and dealt with the
situation by drawing down the reservoir water level and filling the sinkholes.
Simultaneously, the warning system was put into operation and the population below the
dam were informed of the incident and evacuated to safe grounds. The technical solution
for repairing the damage and ensuring non-occurrence of such incident in the future
included strengthening the spillway foundation, the spillway walls, providing drainage in
spillway slaps and installing a sliding gate in the spillway wall to allow evacuation of
reservoir water. Since, then the reservoir was filled several times without any incidents.

                  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
         The Bank fielded an experienced preparation team that included individuals with
relevant experience in dam engineering and in preparation and supervision of previous
Bank-funded projects that included dams. The team performed several field inspections
and safety assessments and provided balanced and effective elements for upgrading the
institutional capacity for monitoring the state of all dams and for ensuring preparedness
and timely interventions to allow their sustainable use. Though available credit funds
were insufficient, the design included resources not only for rehabilitating the 20 most
endangered dams, but also for close monitoring of all the other dams in Armenia, as well
as establishment of an emergency fund for urgent interventions. Implementation of the
strategy allowed for improving the safety of all dams in the country as 74 dams were
rehabilitated under the DSP and the repeater IDSP II prepared in 2004, which could be
considered as an unforeseen positive output of the DSP.
(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
        The Bank support has helped in identifying and introducing best practices in: (i)
assessing the hazards of dam failure, prioritizing dams for rehabilitation, and selecting
appropriate approaches to the actual rehabilitation of dams; (ii) monitoring of dam safety
and establishing a system for emergency preparedness; (iii) the development and
introduction of sustainable O&M systems; and (iv) the creation of the necessary
conditions for increasing beneficiaries' interest and welfare as well as participation in
securing the safety of dams. Bank supervision was proactive in scaling up the scope of
this successful project to all dams that were excluded from the original design due to lack
of availability of credit funds at the time, and at the same time, in supporting a number of
emergency works which had arisen during implementation. The quality and supportive



                                               14
attitude of the supervision team allowed the GOA to consolidate and extend the outputs
and development impact of the DSP.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
       Overall, Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
        The GOA showed continued ownership and commitment towards achieving the
PDO. It complied with most of the agreed actions to make the dam safety policy in
Armenia a clear success story. A highly committed team has been maintained in the PIU
which has been highly effective in implementing the project. The GOA has been active in
adjusting the institutional framework to enhance its effectiveness in managing the I&D
structures of the country and trying to go beyond dam safety targets.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
        An effective PIU with a strong local staff have contributed to a well-designed and
well-run program. The PIU was responsible for an exemplary implementation and
management role that included the DSP and other projects, all of which were
instrumental for a successful sector policy reform process. It effectively managed the
structural and non-structural components of the project that centered on the rehabilitation
of unsafe dam structures that allowed for protecting people and improving the
downstream economic sector base where most of the poor lived. The PIU has also
managed to established a successful track record of sound handling of fiduciary
requirements. The financial management arrangements have been reviewed periodically
and found satisfactory: it had adequate and competent staff and a sound accounting
system. It has been also positively assessed regarding its procurement function and
proved to be experienced with IDA procurement policies and procedures.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

                                  6. Lessons Learned

9       Assessment of dam safety is complicated. For countries such as Armenia, to
identify a problem in a dam, assess its potential impact, and propose measures to improve
dam safety are difficult. It needs a deep level of experience which most often can be
provided largely by international experts. There is also a need to carry out detailed
geotechnical investigations and field inspection and testing. However, it is usual that
some of the proposed design solutions may change during construction as a result of
more detailed investigations and due to the actual conditions and dam structure as
happened in the case of Marmarik dam or due to simpler and less costly solutions as was
implemented for several other dams which resulted in big cost savings.




                                            15
9      Training is essential for the staff of the PIU and WSA on dam safety aspects
especially as this is a very specialized field. Also, it is prudent to include the
communities in the training program especially on the use of the EPP and on EWS.
9       Establishing a separate dam agency for O&M or a separate unit within the WSA
is recommendable because dam O&M is a very specialized task which requires
significant experience and high professional skills.
9       Improving dam safety promotes private investment downstream the rehabilitated
dams as result of potentially more reliable water supply and more effective safety
structures.
9       Improvement of dam management and optimization of water utilization is still
needed in the country. This would involve ­ among other things - computer based O&M
and may be construction of new dams especially on the rivers which have the potential
for cascade dams. This can be addressed in a new follow up project which could
examine the optimization aspects of operation and management of existing dams and
further strengthen the management of the country dams.

  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
        The adequate project preparation and selection of components and targets had
crucial importance in achieving designed results at all the stages of DSP implementation,
and this would be impossible without the input of Bank experts. The best alternative,
which was selected for improving dams' stability and reducing their risk, namely the
proper combination of structural and non-structural measures, enabled to achieve DSP
goals with minimal investments and in possibly short time.
       By solving the issues of immediate improvement of dam safety, the Project also
enabled to ensure the future safe operation of dams through strengthening of Dam
Operation Agency.
        The investigation of remaining Armenian dams that were not included in the
original project enabled to get comprehensive view of all Armenian dams and their
reservoirs, to assess their risk and group them by intervention priorities. In addition to
dam assessment, priority dams with required measures were identified, and this served as
a basis for preparation and implementation of a repeater project ­ IDSP II, which
continued and developed further the achievements reached under DSP project.
       Another major achievement of the Project is the rehabilitation of Marmarik dam,
where the Bank had essential input at all stages. The rehabilitation of incomplete
Marmarik dam is a good example how the solution to safety issues may be best combined
with high economic return of investments.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                           16
                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                           Appraisal Estimate                                    Percentage of
               Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                            (USD millions)                                        Appraisal
                                                                         millions)
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Dams                     18.50                  24.081/                 1.301/
Dam Safety Sustainability                              6.50                   2.702/                 0.422/
Project Management                                     0.90                   2.04                   2.273/
                                                                              3.77
                 Total Baseline Cost                  25.90                  32.61                   1.26
Physical Contingencies
                                                       3.30                      0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                       1.10                     0.00                 0.00
             Total Project Costs                      30.30                    32.61                 1.17
Front-end fee PPF                                      0.00                     0.00                  .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00                     0.00                  .00
     Total Financing Required                         30.30                    32.61                 1.08
1/
   Rehabilitation of Irrigation Dams component includes some emergency works done under the Emergency Fund
subcomponent of the Dam Safety Sustainability component.
 2/
   Works under subcomponent B.1 (Dam Safety Plans) and B.2 (Dam Safety Site Installation) were carried out under
subcomponents A.1 (Design Works) and A.2 (Rehabilitation Works) through installation of monitoring equipment,
radio stations and sirens
3/
     Because the project was extended three times for a total of 54 months, obviously the project management costs
exceeded the estimated at the project appraisal amount.


 (b) Financing
in US$ million
                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                Type of
              Source of Funds                                    Estimate       Estimate        of
                                              Cofinancing
                                                               (US$ millions) (US$ millions) Appraisal
 International Development
                                                               26.60 (27.78)1/           27.78          100
Association (IDA)
in SDR million
                                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                Type of
              Source of Funds                                     Estimate       Estimate        of
                                              Cofinancing
                                                               (SDR millions) (SDR millions) Appraisal
International Development
                                                                      19.7                19.7            100
Association (IDA)
1/
     US$27.78 million amount was estimated at the latest exchange rate of XDR and US$.




                                                          17
                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

     Component 1. Rehabilitation of Dams
            Design and supervision. The cost of this subcomponent was US$1.3 million. It
     provided for preparation of rehabilitation designs for the 20 dams rehabilitated and
     technical supervision of construction works by specialized firms.
             Rehabilitation works. The cost of the rehabilitation works was US$20.7 million.
     The following table shows the works and cost budget proposed in the PAD for the
     original 20 riskiest dams and the actual costs incurred.

     Dam name                Main types of works proposed under Project                         PAD cost          Actual cost
                                                                                                (M US$)            (M US$)
1    Arpilich          Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               0.381           0.083
                       re-installation of monitoring equipment (ME)
2    Aygedzor          Rehabilitation of irrigation outlet, re-installation of ME                    1.171           0.224
3    Halavar           Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               0.895           0.219
                       re-installation of ME
4    Azat              Reduction of seepage, re-installation of ME                                   0.720           0.769
5    Vardakar          Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               1.290           0.397
                       re-installation of ME
6    Tavshut           Rehabilitation of the dam and spillway, re-install. of ME                     3.154           0.471
7    Sovetashen        Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               1.913           0.889
                       reduction of seepage, re-installation of ME
8    David-Bek         Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               1.599           0.188
                       re-installation of ME
9    Sevaberd          Re-installation of ME & rehabilitation of irrigation outlet                   0.596           0.189
10   Aparan            Increase spillway capacity for accommodation of 10,000 year                   1.706           1.008
                       flood, rehabilitation of spillway and irrigation outlet
11   Karnut            Increase spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,                  0.885           0.686
                       dam rehabilitation
12   Mantash           Increase of spillway capacity for passing 10,000                              0.805           0.355
13   Sarnakhbjur       Dam stability and increase of spillway capacity to accommodate                1.057           0.348
                       10,000 year flood
14   Hakhum            Seepage reduction, rehabilitation of irrigation outlet, re-                   2.147           0.396
                       installation of ME
15   Tavush            Rehabilitation of irrigation outlet, re-installation of ME                    0.526           0.256
16   Gegardalich       Rehabilitation of the dam, dam stability                                      1.044           1.032
17   Gegarkunik-2      Rehabilitation of the dam, seepage reduction                                  0.332           0.257
18   Kakavadzor-2      Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               0.239           0.142
                       reduction of seepage losses
19   Upper Bazmaberd   Dam stability                                                                 0.225           0.267
20   Herher            Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,               1.310           0.312
                       reduction of seepage, re-installation of ME
21   Jajur             The contractor hired by operation agency breached the dam without permission to               0.463
                       access to the reservoir and clean sediments. The contract was terminated and works
                       were completed before flood season. Dam rehabilitated under emergency fund.
22   Lower Sasnashen   Construction of missing spillway, rehabilitation of irrigation outlet                         0.281
23   Brnakot           Urgent rehabilitation                                                                         0.020
24   Gndevaz           Spillway was blocked by stones and loose soil. It was necessary to open the spillway          0.046
                       inlet or ensure the required freeboard. Rehabilit. of diversion canal.
25   Karahunj          Cleaning of the diverting canal of spillway                                                   0.022
26   Lanjakhbyur       Rehabilitation of the existing section of spillway, construction of a chute until influx      0.051
                       with the river, replacement or rehabilitation of valves of irrigation outlet,




                                                           18
                           construction of new gate house.
27   Marmarik              Rehabilitation of previously failed dam, construction of new spillway, construction      12.582
                           of irrigation outlet, rehabilitation of dam body, installation of monitoring and EWE
28   Vardakar (2nd interv) Elimination of aftermaths of events of June 4, 2005                                      0.178
29   Mantash (2nd interv.) Measures to eliminate large seepage observed on the downstream slope of dam              0.196
              Total                                                                                  21.995         22.327

              The type and quantity of the works performed in each scheme was determined
     during the preparation of detailed designs based on field investigations, analysis of
     alternatives and selection of the best options. Preliminary investigations showed that the
     stability of some dams did not comply with the requirements of revised seismic
     construction standards. Hence, under DSP, the slope stability of those dams was
     increased and other required activities were also implemented. The bodies of all 20 dams
     needed rehabilitation (replacement of protective slabs, rehabilitation of drainage, etc.).
     On all dams where the spillway capacity was considered not sufficient based on revised
     spillway calculations, the capacity was increased. Experience evidences that overtopping
     is the main reason for the failure of earth dams. Outlet structures are intended to ensure
     the reliable water delivery or rapid drawdown of the reservoir in case of emergency. To
     this end, outlet structures (galleries, towers) were rehabilitated and/or reconstructed on
     over 10 dams. Mechanical equipment was rehabilitated on all 20 dams.
              Rehabilitation works in general progressed rapidly, and if small delays occurred
     in some cases, it was due to the need to undertake further investigations to enhance the
     safety. This was the case of Sewaberd dam for which technical issues delayed the works
     that were, anyway, completed by September 2004. In the PAD, the anticipated works for
     this dam were estimated to cost about US$596,000. However, during preparation of final
     designs and considering the problems of this dam, the overall cost was re-estimated to be
     US$4.5 million. Based on further examination and investigation of the leakage problems
     in the dam, and the assessment that the leakage would not affect the safety of the dam,
     the whole concept of works was re-revised and a new approach for the reparation works
     was recommended by the consultant. This rehabilitation, on the grounds of dam safety
     criteria alone ended having a cost of only US$189,342.
             In the case of Vardakar dam, rehabilitation works were completed in December
     2003, and included small rehabilitation of the dam body, rehabilitation and enlargement
     of the existing spillway, and rehabilitation of the irrigation outlet. However, on June 4,
     2005, damages occurred in parts of the spillway together with the appearance of
     sinkholes near the right side of the dam next to the spillway. It was due to a big flash
     flood that caused the water level in the reservoir to rise very quickly6, which could not be
     stopped or evacuated given the limited capacity of evacuation of the irrigation outlet.
     Accordingly, there was a danger that the dam could be breached. A quick and
     appropriate response by the local authorities and the PIU averted that, and immediately
     started dealing with the situation by drawing down the reservoir water level and filling
     the sinkholes. Simultaneously, the early warning system was put into operation and the
     population below the dam was informed of the incident and evacuated to safe grounds.



     6
         Quickly filling dam reservoir is not recommended especially for newly constructed or rehabilitated dams.



                                                                19
         Later, it was established that the spillway weak foundation and the rapid filling of
the reservoir were the main reasons for the above incident. The technical solution for
repairing the damage and ensure non-occurrence of such incident in the future included
mainly strengthening the spillway foundation, strengthening the spillway walls, providing
drainage in spillway slaps and installing a sliding gate in the spillway wall to allow
evacuation of the reservoir water at lower level, and thus, increasing the capacity of
evacuation of the excess water from flash floods. These measures were implemented
successfully in January 2006 at a cost of US$178,000, and since then the reservoir was
filled several times without any other incident.
        Marmarik dam7 rehabilitation was added to the DSP because it was posing
significant risk downstream to about 164,000 people. Its diversion tunnel represented the
greatest risk among the structures of the reservoir. The tunnel operated for 35 years
although it was designed as a temporary structure with a useful period of only 5-6 years.
It was calculated to support a river flow of about 50 cubic meters per second (m3/sec).
However, the discharge for a 0.01 percent probability flood could reach to about120
m3/sec. In case of failure of the diversion tunnel, the river flow would accumulate in the
reservoir causing overtopping and washing of the dam. Given this assessment, the GOA
decided to make use of the cost savings being obtained from the implementation of the
DSP to protect downstream life and assets.
         After assessment of alternative options (including removing the dam by breaching
the embankment), it was decided to proceed with the selected alternative which involved
finalizing construction to a safe impounding level, including repair and rehabilitation
works, cutting 20 meter of the dam top section, cutting part of the dam downstream body
section, providing a clay core, filters and filling the dam downstream body section, repair
the irrigation tunnel and outlet, reconstruction of the spillway and provide needed
instrumentation. The works would allow for filling the dam reservoir to store 23 -25
Mm3. After several investigations and design works, the contract was signed at a cost of
4.6 billion AMD and the construction period began in September 2006, and was supposed
to last 30 months.
        However, and as the excavation of the downstream section progressed, it was
clear that more cutting of the dam body was needed since the material found was not
suitable, and drainage works were deemed necessary at the toe of the dam. Though
detailed investigations and drilling were carried out during the design phase, it appeared
that the original material used in the dam constructions varied from section to section
which was not safe and had to be removed. Accordingly, the cost of the contract was
increased and the construction period had to be extended. Also, the unusual wet and cold
weather was another factor causing delays in construction works and prompted the GOA
to request two additional extensions of the project closure until September 30, 2009. By
that date rehabilitation of the dam was still not complete, but since the Credit proceeds
were fully disbursed, the Bank decided to close the project after receiving confirmation
from the GOA that the rehabilitation works will continue, and remaining payments would

7
   Initially Marmarik dam was designed as a reservoir with a 64 m high dam, total storage of 36.9 Mm3 and useful
storage 34.0 Mm3. Construction of the reservoir was completed in November 1974. The downstream slope of the dam
failed right after completion of civil works, several days prior to planned filling of the reservoir with water. As a result,
the dam crest settled by 13.5 m over the length of 350 m. About 500,000 m3 of soil slid downstream.


                                                            20
be covered by the GOA. Rehabilitation works have continued at a good pace after closing
and are expected to be completed by June 2010. The Bank will follow up to make sure
that this activity is completed and will send a mission in the summer of 2010 to visit
Marmarik dam and report on the final status of the construction.
Component 2. Dam Safety Sustainability
        Preparation of safety plans subcomponent cost was US$0.2 million. Since even
after complete rehabilitation, there is still some risk of dam failure due to many reasons
(extraordinary high precipitation, earthquake, etc.), inundation areas in case of dam break
was determined and respective action plans prepared to ensure the safety of the
downstream population (for planning of evacuation, etc.).
       Field installation of safety equipment cost was US$1.7 million. This
subcomponent provided for measures related to safety non-structural measures and
operation of dams (installation of metering equipment and early warning system, power
and communication equipment, guard houses, repair workshops, etc).
       Equipment of Dam Operation and Maintenance Agency cost was US$3.0
million. It included equipment aimed at enabling the Dam O&M Agency to carry out its
function of safe operation of already rehabilitated dams. The support included
procurement of monitoring equipment, vehicles and heavy equipment, as well as
operational costs.
          Training was organized for the dam operation staff of all 20 rehabilitated dams
and for PIU staff. The purpose of the training was to make operation staff familiar with
institutional changes that were taking place or would occur after rehabilitation works
(construction of new structures, installation of new valves, etc.) and to learn operation
procedures of new structures to ensure their safe O&M and timely prevention of potential
failures or emergency situations. Another purpose was to give information about the
assessment of dangerous situations and the actions to take in such situations. The target
was exceeded: 122 dam operators were trained instead of 111 foreseen under the Project.
PIU technical staff participated in international training events, including: (i) on dam
safety management, USA, August 2000; (ii) on financial management, Italy, September
2001; (iii) on procurement management, Italy, September 2001.
        Investigations and emergency rehabilitation works cost was US$2.4 million and
covered all the Armenian dams. Therefore, field and laboratory investigations were
conducted for the 20 DSP dams plus the remaining 54 irrigation and six energy dams to
assess their technical state and identify defects. As a result of the investigations, the dams
were prioritized based on the urgency of proposed rehabilitation works. Seven dams were
added to the DSP rehabilitation plans and other 47 dams were selected for rehabilitation
under IDSP II.
        The emergency fund in the amount of US$2 million was provided for emergency
cases, should there be a need of urgent interventions. Rehabilitation of Jajur and Upper
Sasnashen dams was financed from that fund (being 2 of the 7 dams added to DSP).
Component 3. Project management




                                             21
         The estimated cost of this component was US$1 million. It covered PIU operation
costs, designing activities, the services of the international dam safety expert, auditing
costs, training of local specialists.
Component 4. Emergency Drought
        Background: The component was added to deal with an emergency. The summer
months of 2000 were unusually dry and hot over almost all parts of Armenia: total
rainfall in the May-August period was nearly 70 percent below average. Furthermore,
temperatures rose to unprecedented levels, up to five degrees centigrade higher than
normal, accelerating the level of evapo-transpiration and causing deep ruptures in the
soil. As a result, yields of rainfed crops have been drastically reduced, and vast areas of
cultivated land left un-harvested. The most affected areas were the rainfed areas in
Tavush, Lori, Shirak, Gegharkunik, Aragatsotn, and Kotayk Marzes (provinces). Rainfed
wheat and potato production in these areas had declined by 60-70 percent, thereby
contributing to the national reductions in grain and potato production of 27 and 40
percent, respectively, compared to 1999 production levels. This represented localized
reductions of roughly 100,000 tons of grain and 150,000 tons of potato.
        The GOA made an urgent appeal to all international donors to provide assistance.
An assessment by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) and the World Food
Program (WFP), subsequently verified by an IDA mission in September 2000, has
confirmed the need for emergency assistance. FAO and WFP have launched international
appeals for drought assistance and, together with other donor agencies, provided relief
grain supplies of 70,000 tons (to cover both the grain and potato deficits).
        In order to revive production in the following spring, emergency support to the
agricultural sector required immediate support, on a grant basis, of field preparation
works and distribution of appropriate seeds of wheat, barley and potatoes. Additionally,
in order to supplement the low water levels in reservoirs and rivers, repair works of
tubewells to access ground water was also needed8. Amending the DSP by adding a new
component to the project and using the resources under the unallocated category offered
the quickest method for providing Bank assistance. That approach was also supported by
the Board, and the amendment became effective on December 1, 2000.
        Component description: The component included provision of field preparation
works to be executed at the end of 2000 to enable accelerated planting of spring grains in
April 2001. It also included the rehabilitation of tube wells (to be financed retroactively)
to allow provision of supplemental irrigation water to facilitate germination of winter
grains. The estimated area to be covered was about 38,000 ha farmed by about 50,000
households with a total population of about 180,000. The package included procurement
of field preparation works through private agricultural machinery enterprises at an
expected cost of US$34 per hectare (US$1.3 million), and retroactive financing of
US$150,000 for tube well rehabilitation works (done in September 2000), with a cost of
US$1.45 million. The field preparation works would be provided to beneficiaries meeting

8
 The rural portfolio of the Bank at that time included three projects: Agriculture Reform Support Project (ARSP), Title
Registration Project (TRP) and DSP, all were implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture (the State Committee for
Water Management was established later, on February 8, 2001, by the GOA Decree N92). Among these projects, DSP
was a relatively new one, which was declared effective in April of 2000 and hadn't disbursed many funds.


                                                         22
the following criteria: (i) residents in the areas defined as drought affected marzes
(provinces) and obtain their livelihood through farming, which should be confirmed by
the local village administration; (ii) farmers who have lost more than 40 percent of their
rainfed grain and potato crop during the spring and summer of 2000 as a result of the
drought; and (iii) not receiving the same inputs from other donors or relief agencies.
        Implementation arrangements: The "Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation" PIU
(name of the PIU in 2000), which was in charge of DSP was given the responsibility for
coordinating the activities of this component. A working group, headed by the Minister
of Agriculture (MOA), and including the Director of the DSP PIU, the Director of the
ARSP PIU, and one representative each from the Ministry of Finance and Economy,
Marz Administrations, and Marz Agricultural Support Centers (MASCs) was set up. This
group was responsible for the preparation of the list of beneficiaries, in cooperation with
the Heads of Village Councils, and for ensuring the timely execution of tenders with
private agricultural machinery enterprises for the provision of the emergency assistance.
        Results achieved: Implementation of the component went on schedule. Since the
amendment became effective on December 1, 2000, it was not possible to perform field
preparation works in 2000 and the activity was shifted to spring of 2001. Tender for
importation of seeds (wheat and barley) was announced on February, 16, 2001, and
opening of proposals took place ten days later. On March 2, 2001, the Project
Management Board (PMB) announced the winner with which four days later, a contract
was signed for the amount of US$1.8 million. The transportation of seeds from the
Russian port Novorossijsk to Armenia was done with assistance of the US Department
for International Aid (USAID). With MOA assistance, the commission comprised of 10
MOA experts and specialists from the Center for Seeds Quality Assurance and Protection
was send to Russia to check the quality of 7,837.8 tons of seeds before shipping to
Armenia. The first tranche of seeds (2,928.3 tons) entered the country on March 31 and
April 1 of 2001. The second tranche of seeds (2,476 tons) entered Armenia on April 9
and 10, 2001, and the last tranche of 2,517.4 tons - on April 11, 2001.
        Additionally, national tenders were conducted for field preparation works,
including plowing, other pre-planting works, and planting of seeds. Overall there were 48
lots, and contracts were signed with 28 contractors for carrying out the mentioned works.
The total amount of the costs of the works comprised US$1.97 million. Overall, the field
preparation works were carried out in 611 communities with a total population of about
180,000 and the beneficiaries of the project component were about 50,000 households.




                                            23
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

        Introduction: The same criteria adopted for the PAD analysis was used for this
ICR economic analysis. Costs and benefits were updated based on actual values and new
projections estimated on what was really done under the DSP. Prices of the expected
benefits or avoided losses were also updated.
       As benefits the PAD and this ICR analysis considered the following:
       (a) For the PAD analysis, severe safety risk would be reduced for about 360,000
       people living downstream of the 20 highly risky dams. For this ICR analysis,
       safety risk was reduced for 537,900 people, the increase being mainly due to
       Marmarik dam;
       (b) For the PAD the risk for potential flooding and loss of 34 percent of total
       irrigated area in Armenia would be reduced, through the guaranteeing of water
       supply to an area of 68,000 ha, which produces annual farm net income of US$35
       million. For the ICR, with updated values and additional 3,500 ha from Marmarik
       dam the annual farm net income was estimated in US$40.5 million.
       (c) For the PAD the risk of potential destruction of 78,000 homes and damage to
       over US$2 billion worth of roads, irrigation structures, and other public
       infrastructure and enterprises would be reduced. The same value was considered
       for this ICR analysis.
       (d) Rehabilitation of Marmarik dam incorporated to the DSP using the cost
       savings from the original 20 dams, adds an expected benefit of US$3.4 million
       per year at maturity (year 2016) for the ICR evaluation, mainly due to the
       incremental water to be used for generation of electricity. Benefits from the other
       six dams added to DSP were not considered because there is no data of existing
       assets downstream for supporting its valuation.
       Cost-Benefit Indicators: A base level of economic rate of return (ERR) of 32
percent was estimated at appraisal. For the ICR analysis, an ERR of 33.3 percent was
estimated considering the updated benefits of the original 20 dams plus the benefits of
Marmarik dam amount of works undertaken under the DSP.
       The methodology used for estimating this ICR ERR is as follows:
        The potential losses of farm net income was derived using the weighted average
net income data estimated for the 2009 Irrigation Development Project (IDP) ICR, and
given the existing cropping pattern in the IDP area, which is assumed to be similar to the
downstream areas of the rehabilitated dams. This average net income per ha was
multiplied by the 48,900 ha of agricultural area which would lose access to water from
dams and therefore be unable to withstand the summer period in case of all dams
collapsing, thereby going out of agricultural production. With an average annual net farm
income per hectare of US$829, the total potential losses associated with agricultural area
going out of production would be US$40.5 million over the twenty year period
considered for this evaluation (Table 1 in this Annex 3).
       Potential losses of household assets were estimated for the PAD by taking the
average size of rural households (100 square meters ­ m2) at a replacement cost of


                                           24
US$250 per m2, adding another roughly US$5,000 of household and farm assets
(consumer durables, livestock, etc.). Losses from flooding were taken at 60 percent of the
household total of US$30,000 in dwelling and other assets, and then multiplied by the
number of households expected to be affected in each dam's inundation area. The same
values were considered for this ICR analysis (Table 1 in this Annex 3).
        Potential losses of non-household assets was estimated at appraisal by taking an
inventory of the various structures in each of the 20 original dam's inundation zone and
estimating the replacement cost of roads and irrigation structures (per km) and other
infrastructure. Given the rough estimate that was reached, a 30 percent damage rate was
used for estimating the potential value of losses from dam breaks. This is reasonable, as
structures such as roads and canals which would be damaged are likely to be damaged to
a degree greater than 30 percent of replacement value. The same values were taken for
this analysis, and value of assets downstream the added seven dams was not considered
as information was not available (Table 1 in this Annex 3).
        The potential losses were summed across all dam inundation areas for the three
categories and then integrated into a 20 year calculation considering benefits of
foregoing these losses by reducing the rates of expected dam failure. To these benefits,
the value of incremental energy generated or saved through the rehabilitation of
Marmarik dam was added (Table 2 in this Annex 3). The reductions of dam failure rates
were calculated by the PIU to be on the order of 90 percent, from 7.5 percent to .75
percent, for the 20 year period. This amounts to reducing the dam failure rate for a single
dam in a single year by an order of magnitude, but to a rate which is still above the
internationally observed rate of 0.5 percent for dams built since 1951 ("Dam Failures
Statistical Analysis", International Commission for Large Dams, Bulletin 99, 1995).
        Results: As done for the appraisal estimated ERR, when the reduction of the dam
failure rate is distributed over the twenty years and multiplied out by the three different
types of losses, a stream of benefits is generated from the original 20 dams. Adding to
these expected avoided losses from the original 20 dams the benefits from Marmarik dam
(value of incremental energy produced or saved), the total benefits are compared with the
stream of project investments which are similar or even less than foreseen at appraisal
(costs of the emergency fourth component introduced after the 2000 drought are not
included in the ICR analysis). The resulting ICR ERR for the DSP is 33.3 percent, using
an average dam failure rate of 7.5 percent, which corresponds to a reduction of 6.75% in
the dam failure rate to 0.75 percent owing to project investments (Table 2 in this Annex
3). The higher ERR estimated in the ICR exercise as compared with the PAD estimation
(32 percent) is due to the cost savings which allowed to expand the DSP impact to the
benefits expected from the Marmarik dam which is the biggest investment undertaken
with the support of the DSP.




                                            25
     Table 1. Summary of Potential Losses from Dam Breaks ­ Agricultural Areas,
   Associated Incomes, Homes and Household Assets, and Other Non-household Assets

                                  Potential
                    Potential                                  Potential   Potential losses
                                 annual lost     Number of
Rehabilitated Dam   hectares                                  household      from other
                                  farm net       households
     name             loss                                      losses     damaged assets
                                income (000'       (000')
                    (000'ha)                                  (000'$US)      (000' $US)
                                    USD)
    Arpilich           19          15.751           1.348       24.455           0.36
   Aygedzor            0.9         0.7461           1.391       25.244          0.633
    Halavar            0.6         0.4974           0.413        7.494          1.881
      Azat             2.7         2.2383          19.174      347.891          259.5
   Vardakar            1.1         0.9119           2.522       45.754           0.45
    Tavshut            1.5         1.2435           0.348        6.311            0
  Sovetashen           0.4         0.3316            0.13        2.367           0.06
   David-Bek           0.6         0.4974           0.152        2.761          27.21
   Sevaberd            1.2         0.9948           1.826       33.133           3.42
    Aparan             3.5         2.9015          40.348      732.071          429.9
    Karnut              7           5.803             2.5        45.36            24
    Mantash            3.7         3.0673           3.174       57.587            30
  Sarnakhbyur          1.1         0.9119           1.674       30.371            0
    Hakhum             2.4         1.9896           0.065        1.183           0.12
    Tavush             1.2         0.9948           0.043         0.79           0.81
  Gegardalich          0.2         0.1658           0.587        10.65           3.09
 Gegarkunik-2          0.1         0.0829           0.587        10.65          0.222
 Kakavadzor-2          0.5         0.4145           0.152        2.761           0.42
Upper Bazmaberd        0.1         0.0829           0.152        2.761           0.18
    Herher             1.1         0.9119           1.739       31.555            30
     Total            48.9        40.5381         78.325      1421.149        812.256




                                            26
       Table 2. Reduction of Losses from Investments under the Dam Safety Project and
        Benefits from Marmarik Dam Rehabilitation ­ Calculation of Net Benefits and
                                  Economic Rate of Return


                                                                 Net benefits
                     Reduction    Reduction      Reduction
       Reduction                                                    from
                     of loss of   of losses of   of losses of                    Investment    Net
Year     of loss                                                Rehabilitation
                       farm       household         other                           costs     benefit
       probability                                              of Marmarik
                      income         assets         assets
                                                                    dam


2001     0.23%                                                                     4,892      -4,892
2002     0.23%                                                                     5,448      -5,448
2003     0.23%           93          3,328          1,902                          4,002       1,321
2004     0.24%           97          3,463          1,979                          1,314       4,225
2005     0.25%          101          3,604          2,060                           869        4,896
2006     0.26%          105          3,751          2,144                          1,662       4,338
2007     0.27%          109          3,903          2,231                          2,579       3,664
2008     0.29%          118          4,062          2,320                          3,457       3,043
2009     0.30%          122          4,227          2,416                          6,404        361
2010     0.31%          126          4,399          2,514                          1,233       5,806
2011     0.32%          130          4,578          2,617           1,977                      9,302
2012     0.34%          138          4,764          2,723           2,043                      9,668
2013     0.35%          142          4,958          2,834           2,418                     10,352
2014     0.36%          146          5,160          2,949           2,897                     11,152
2015     0.38%          154          5,370          3,069           3,383                     11,976
2016     0.39%          158          5,588          3,194           3,410                     12,350
2017     0.41%          166          5,815          3,324           3,422                     12,727
2018     0.43%          174          6,052          3,459           3,432                     13,117
2019     0.44%          178          6,298          3,600           3,432                     13,508
2020     0.46%          186          6,554          3,746           3,432                     13,918
2021     0.48%          195          6,821          3,899           3,432                     14,347
          Total        2,639        92,695         52,980          33,278         31,860
                                                                                   ERR        33.3%
                                                                                   NPV        $35,033




                                                 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Salem Gafsi               Sr. Operations Officer             ECSSD Team Leader
Mark Lundell              Sr. Agricultural Economist         ECSSD Economics
Giuseppe Fantozzi         Operations Officer                 ECSSD Financial Analysis
Alessandro Palmieri       Dam Specialist                     OPCQC Dam Safety
Ezedine Hadj-Mabrouk      Environmental Specialist           ECSSD Env. Issues
Jagdish Jassal            Procurement Specialist             ECSPS Procurement
Abdul Haji                Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS Fin. management
Supervision/ICR
Giuseppe Fantozzi         Sr. Operations Officer             ECSSD    Team Leader
Usaid I. El-Hanbali       Water Resources Engineer           ECSSD    Engineer
Alessandro Palmieri       Lead Dam Specialist                OPCQC    Dam Safety
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specia    ECSPS    Fin. management
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS    Procurement
Gayane Minasyan           Operations Officer                 ECSSD    Env. Issues
Arusyak Alaverdyan        Operations Officer                 ECSSD    M&E

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  106.26
  FY00                                                                    0.38
                          Total:                                        106.64
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                    0.55
  FY00                                        12                         37.21
  FY01                                        21                         64.54
  FY02                                        17                         86.41
  FY03                                        19                         69.96
  FY04                                        25                         89.90
  FY05                                        18                         52.03
  FY06                                        25                         69.82
  FY07                                        18                         42.06
  FY08                                        14                         38.92
  FY09                                        15                          0.00
                          Total:             184                        551.40




                                           28
                                                           9                                             10
     Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Background

        Armenia is a small, mountainous country with an area of 29,743 km2. Its average
altitude is 1,830 m above the sea level. About 90 percent of the territory is at an altitude
above 1,000 m. The population of Armenia is about 3.0 million. In the FSU, Armenia
occupied a relatively favorable position, owing to the production of high-valuable
agricultural products (grapes, fruit, tobacco, geranium etc.), and light industrial products
(machine tools, electric engines and military products). The economy was, thus, driven
by export. At the end of the 1980s, Armenia had a prospering industry and one of the
highest living standards in the FSU. The collapse of the economic, financial and trade
links with the former Soviet republics led to a rapid deterioration of the production
infrastructure, which translated into a rapid decrease in national production.
        Currently (as well as during the project preparation and implementation),
agriculture remains a dominant sector in the economy. It provides varying levels of
productive employment to about half of the households, and contributes about 30 percent
of GDP. Agricultural lands cover about 1.4 million ha, of which about 500,000 ha (35
percent) are plough lands. Of this latter area, about 280,000 ha are irrigated or potentially
irrigable. The irrigation infrastructure comprises 81 reservoirs (in total there are 87
reservoirs of which six are energy dams) with a total capacity of 774 Mm3, about 3,000
km of main and secondary canals, about 18,000 km of tertiary canals, 400 medium and
large pumping stations, about 2,220 tubewells and artesian wells, and about 2,000 km of
drainage-collectors.
        All 87 reservoirs in Armenia were built about 30-50 years ago. Ten of them were
built before 1960. Most of the reservoirs (50) were built between 1960 and 1980. Another
20 reservoirs were built after 1980, and only two reservoirs were commissioned in 1990-
ies ­ David-Bek (1990) and Herher (1994).
        After collapse of FSU (years after 1991), the technical state of structures ensuring
safe dam operation deteriorated due to insufficiency of O&M funds. This inevitably
would cause dam failures and breaches endangering the lives of downstream population.
There were some design issues with low capacities of spillways and irrigation outlets as
well. There were also dam stability issues emerged after devastating Spitak earthquake in
1988. That earthquake forced to revise the seismic standards. The dam stability had to be
re-calculated under new seismic requirements, and in some cases the dam slope grade had
to be reduced.


9
  The Borrower's ICR was prepared by the PIU in both Armenian and English languages and submitted to the Bank on
January 31, 2010. Annex 7 presents brief summary of the Borrower's completion report.

10
  The comments from the Borrower on the ICR in the form of a letter from the SCWM were received by the Bank on
March 11, 2010. An unofficial English translation of the letter signed by Andranik Andreasyan, Chairman of the
SCWM, is attached at the end of this Annex.




                                                      29
        Three large dam failures took place in the past in Armenia (Agarak ­ 1974,
Marmarik ­ 1975, and Artik ­ 1994) caused by settlement, seepage and leakage processes
in dam body. The failure of Artik Dam inundated two settlements, caused two human
losses and large property damage. Another 10 serious dam failures occurred within 1989-
1998. Although these failures did not cause human losses, they bring to long-term
interruption of irrigation, reservoir drawdown and in some cases to population
evacuation11.
        Yet at the end of 1990s it became clear from the studies conducted by local and
international experts that rehabilitation works should not be delayed, so it became
necessary to develop a comprehensive program of interventions ensuring dams safety. To
this end, the GOA decided to proceed with the dam safety component of a bigger Water
Resources Management Project (WRMP) as a separate project on an emergency basis
with the primary objective to protect the population of about 360,000 people and the
socio-economic infrastructure downstream of the dams facing the highest risk of failure.
In addition, there were a significant number of endangered people in Azerbaijan as
several reservoirs are located in the bordering regions. Through achieving its objective
the Project also helped to enhance the sustainability of the dam-based economic activities
in Armenia.

2. Description of the project

         The Project was a five year program aimed at improving the safety of 20 priority
dams and at establishing effective dam safety monitoring system for all Armenian dams.
It was decided to utilize both structural and non-structural measures to achieve that goal.
Structural measures included rehabilitation works such as attainment of dam body
stability, increase of spillway capacity, construction or rehabilitation of equipment and
structures, etc. Non-structural measures included O&M Plans, EPP, instrumentation and
monitoring devices, telecommunication and early warning equipment. Structural
measures were more costly than non-structural ones however the best result in
improvement of dam safety was achieved by joint implementation of these two activities.
         Originally the Project included three components, and later a fourth was added:
         Component A: Rehabilitation of 20 irrigation dams
         Component B: Dam safety sustainability
         Component C: Project management
         Component D: Emergency drought assistance

         The following is a detailed summary of the Project by components.
Component A. Rehabilitation of 20 Irrigation Dams



11
   The downstream population of Aygedzor dam had to be evacuated for a month due to intense soil erosion observed
in a gallery located in the body of the dam.




                                                       30
        Sub-component A.1. Design and supervision. The estimated cost of this sub-
component was US$1.3 million. This sub-component provided for preparation of
rehabilitation designs for 20 dams and technical supervision of construction works by
specialized firms.
         Sub-component A.2. Rehabilitation works. The estimated cost of this component
was US$20.7 million. According to the results of preliminary investigations, the stability
of some dams did not comply with the requirements of the revised seismic construction
standards. Under DSP, the slope stability of those dams was increased and other required
activities were implemented. The bodies of all 20 dams were in need of rehabilitation
(replacement of protective slabs, rehabilitation of drainage, etc.).
Component B. Dam Safety Sustainability
        Sub-component B.1. Preparation of Dam Safety Plans. The estimated cost of
this component was US$0.2 million. Even after complete rehabilitation, there is still
some risk of dam failure due to any reason (extraordinary high precipitation, earthquake,
etc.). To this end, inundation areas in case of dam break should be determined and
respective action plans prepared to ensure the safety of downstream population
(evacuation, etc.), which was done under the Project.
        Sub-component B.2. Site Installation of Dam Safety Equipment. The estimated
cost of this component was US$1.7 million. This component provided for measures
related to safe operation of dams (installation of metering equipment and early warning
system, power and communication equipment, guard houses, repair workshops, etc).
       Sub-component B.3. Strengthening of Dam Maintenance Enterprise. The
estimated cost of this component was US$3.0 million. In included measures aimed at
enabling Dam Maintenance Enterprise to carry out its function of safe operation of
already rehabilitated dams. These included procurement of monitoring equipment,
vehicles and heavy equipment, operation costs.
         Sub-component B.4. Investigations and Emergency Repair Fund. The estimated
cost of this component was US$2.4 million. DSP covered all the Armenian dams.
Therefore, field and laboratory investigations were envisaged for the remaining 54
irrigation and six energy dams to assess their technical state and identify defects. As a
result of investigations, the dams were prioritized based on the urgency of proposed
rehabilitation works. 47 dams were selected for rehabilitation. The actual rehabilitation of
those dams was carried out under Irrigation Dam Safety II Project (IDSP II).
      The Emergency Repair Fund in the amount of US$2.0 million was provided for
emergency cases, should there be a need of emergency intervention.
Component C. Project management
        The estimated cost of this component was US$2.0 million. In included Project
Management Unit (PIU) operation costs, designing, services of international dam safety
expert, Project audit, training of local specialists and gaining of international experience.
Component D. Emergency Works
       The Emergency Drought Assistance component was added almost in the
beginning of project implementation at the request of the GOA in order to mitigate the


                                             31
consequences of drought that hit the country in 1999-2000. This component included
provision of field preparation works to be executed at the end of 2000 to enable
accelerated planting of spring grains in April 2001. It also included the rehabilitation of
tubewells (to be financed retroactively) to allow provision of supplemental irrigation
water resources to facilitate germination of winter grains. The estimated area to be
covered is about 40,000 ha. The total package involved the procurement of field
preparation works through private agricultural machinery enterprises (at a cost of US$1.3
million), and the retroactive financing of US$150,000 of tube well rehabilitation works
(executed in September 2000), with an estimated total cost of US$1.45 million. The field
preparation works were supposed to be provided to beneficiaries who would meet the
following criteria: (i) should be residents in the areas defined as drought affected Marzes
(provinces) and obtain their livelihood through farming, which should be confirmed by
the local village administration; (ii) should be farmers who have lost more than 40
percent of their rainfed grain and potato crop during the spring and summer of 2000 as a
result of the drought; and (iii) should not receive the same inputs from other donors or
relief agencies.

3. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

       To achieve the Project objective, safety measures were implemented for the most
endangered 20 dams, and the safety status was investigated on the remaining 60 dams.
Based on investigation results, rehabilitation measures were developed and implemented
on the dams having safety problems. The project was also aimed at improvement of
technical capacity of Dam Maintenance Enterprise (DME).
       The following table shows Project components and sub-components with original
and actual costs.
                              Table 1. Project Costs by Components
                                                          Original cost      Final cost
                              Name
                                                          (million US$)    (million US$)
A.     Rehabilitation of 20 Irrigation Dams                   21.995           24.083*)
A.1.   Design and Supervision                                 1.258            1.756*)
A.2.   Rehabilitation Works                                   20.737           22.327*)
B.     Dam Safety Sustainability                              7.334             2.718
B.1.   Dam Safety Plans                                       0.184               -
B.2    Dam Safety Site Installation                           1.685               -
B.3    Strengthening of DME                                   2.993             1.666
B.4    Investigation and Emergency Repair Fund                2.472             1.052
C.     Project management                                     0.971             2.040
D.     Emergency Works                                          -               3.769
       Total                                                 30.300            32.610



                                              32
       *) These costs include expenses for 27 dams and emergency rehabilitation works on Vardakar and Mantash dams.




    Component A. Rehabilitation of 20 Irrigation Dams
           Although at early stages of Project implementation rehabilitation works were
    completed later than anticipated, the overall Project dates were maintained and in 2003-
    2004 the Project exceeded targets in respect of rehabilitation of dams. Eventually, at the
    end of implementation, instead of planned 20, the Project rehabilitated 26 plus one ­
    Marmarik dam, for which works are still underway and will be completed in June, 2010.
            Some additional issues were taken into consideration during the rehabilitation
    works. The international dam construction experience evidences that overtopping is the
    main reason for the failure of the earth dams. All the dams covered by the Project were
    earthfill dams except for Arpilich dam. Spillways are the essential structures of such
    dams. The spillway capacity of some of the 20 dams was several times less than the
    design capacity (e.g. Karnut, Sarnakhbyur, Aparan, Aygedzor, etc.). The spillway
    capacity of those dams was increased or they were rehabilitated under Project.
            In general, outlet structures are intended to ensure the reliable water delivery or
    rapid drawdown of the reservoir in case of emergency. To this end, outlet structures
    (galleries, towers) were rehabilitated and/or reconstructed on over 10 dams. Mechanical
    equipment had to be rehabilitated on all 20 dams.
            Savings generated during DSP implementation. For all the dams that had to be
    rehabilitated, several preliminary alternatives were considered at the design stage prior to
    selection of the final design solution, which had to be economically the most feasible one.
    Such approach enabled saving of large amounts. Rehabilitation of only Sevaberd dam
    allowed saving of about US$4.0 million. That amount was provided for implementation
    of anti-seepage measures within reservoir bottom. Initially it was thought that seepage
    directly affects dam stability. However, more detailed investigations showed that seepage
    flows do not impact dam stability, hence it became possible to avoid those costly
    measures and implement only required rehabilitation works.
           Some savings were generated during construction tender as increase competition
    among constructing companies forced them to quote prices less than the estimated costs
    were. The total savings generated during DSP implementation amounted to about US$9.0
    million only from credit proceeds. That amount was used mainly for rehabilitation of
    Marmarik dam and of four small dams (Gndevaz, Brnakot, Karahunj and Lanjakhbyur-1).
            The following table shows main rehabilitation works performed under the Project
    with estimated and actual costs.
                                    Table 2. Summary of Rehabilitation works
                                                                                             Cost according to
                                                                                                                  Actual cost
         Dam name                  Main types of works proposed under Project                 original design
                                                                                                                 (million US$)
                                                                                               (million US$)
1   Arpilich             Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood, re-            0.381            0.083
                         installation of monitoring equipment
2   Aygedzor             Rehabilitation of irrigation outlet, re-installation of monitoring             1.171            0.224
                         equipment



                                                            33
3    Halavar               Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood, re-            0.895        0.219
                           installation of monitoring equipment
4    Azat                  Reduction of seepage, re-installation of monitoring equipment                  0.720        0.769
5    Vardakar              Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood, re-            1.290        0.397
                           installation of monitoring equipment
6    Tavshut               Rehabilitation of the dam and spillway, re-installation of monitoring          3.154        0.471
                           equipment
7    Sovetashen            Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,                1.913        0.889
                           reduction of seepage, re-installation of monitoring equipment
8    David-Bek             Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood, re-            1.599        0.188
                           installation of monitoring equipment
9    Sevaberd              Re-installation of monitoring equipment and rehabilitation of                  0.596        0.189
                           irrigation outlet
10   Aparan                Increase of spillway capacity for accommodation of 10,000 year                 1.706        1.008
                           flood, rehabilitation of spillway and irrigation outlet
11   Karnut                Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,                0.885        0.686
                           dam rehabilitation
12   Mantash               Increase of spillway capacity for passing 10,000                               0.805        0.355
13   Sarnakhbjur           Dam stability and increase of spillway capacity to accommodate                 1.057        0.348
                           10,000 year flood
14   Hakhum                Seepage reduction, rehabilitation of irrigation outlet, re-installation        2.147        0.396
                           of monitoring equipment
15   Tavush                Rehabilitation of irrigation outlet, re-installation of monitoring             0.526        0.256
                           equipment
16   Gegardalich           Rehabilitation of the dam, dam stability                                       1.044        1.032
17   Gegarkunik-2          Rehabilitation of the dam, seepage reduction                                   0.332        0.257
18   Kakavadzor-2          Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,                0.239        0.142
                           reduction of seepage losses
19   Upper Bazmaberd       Dam stability                                                                  0.225        0.267
20   Herher                Increase of spillway capacity to accommodate 10,000 year flood,                1.310        0.312
                           reduction of seepage, re-installation of monitoring equipment
21   Jajur                 The contractor hired by operation agency breached the dam without                           0.463
                           permission to have access to the reservoir and clean sediments. The
                           contract with contractor was terminated and works should have been
                           completed before flood season. The dam and other structures were
                           rehabilitated under funds of DSP emergency fund.
22   Lower Sasnashen       Construction of missing spillway, rehabilitation of irrigation outlet                       0.281
23   Brnakot               Urgent rehabilitation                                                                       0.020
24   Gndevaz               Spillway was blocked by stones and loose soil. It was necessary to                          0.046
                           open the spillway inlet or ensure the required freeboard.
                           Rehabilitation of diversion canal.
25   Karahunj              Cleaning of the diverting canal of spillway                                                 0.022
26   Lanjakhbyur           Rehabilitation of the existing section of spillway, construction of a                       0.051
                           chute until influx with the river, replacement or rehabilitation of
                           valves of irrigation outlet, construction of new gate house.
27   Marmarik              Rehabilitation of previously failed dam, construction of new                               12.582
                           spillway, construction of irrigation outlet, rehabilitation of dam
                           body, installation of monitoring and early warning equipment
28   Vardakar (failure of  Elimination of aftermaths of events of June 4, 2005                                         0.178
     elimination)
29   Mantash (anti-seepage Measures to eliminate large seepage observed on the downstream                              0.196
     measures)             slope of dam
             Total                                                                                   21.995       22.327


            Rehabilitation works of Jajur and Upper Sasnashen dams were financed from the
     Emergency Repair Fund. An additional construction contract with a cost of US$0.138
     million was executed for Vardakar dam to eliminate the consequences of the event that
     took place on June 4, 2005.
     Discussion of the Event Occurred at Vardakar Dam and Lessons Learned



                                                                 34
       Several discussions were conducted by WB and local specialists to find out the
reasons and see what lessons may be learned from such events. The members of Bank
Supervision Mission, in particular Senior Dam Expert Alessandro Palmieri, Water
Resources Senior Engineer Usaid El Hanbali, visited the dam and provided their
comments and advice.
       A meeting was organized during the visit of international expert of DSP Gary
Salmon in January, 2005 to discuss the event occurred on Vardakar dam on June 4, 2005
and to learn lessons from it. The meeting was attended by representatives of operation
agency, Emergency Management Agency (EMA), design and construction enterprises,
PIU. The meeting prepared «Thoughts on Improvement of Emergency Preparedness
Plans», which were submitted to EMA to take into consideration in further works.
       Following the instruction of Mr. Palmieri, the PIU organized a workshop at the
dam site with participation of representatives of the operation agency, EMA and
managers of marz (province) government. The aim of that workshop was to analyze once
again Vardakar dam event and discuss the possibilities to prevent such events in future
and how to improve the cooperation between various agencies in case of such events. The
workshop also discussed the document «Some Thoughts on Safe Operation of Dams and
on Actions to Be Taken in Emergency Cases on the Example of Vardakar Dam» prepared
by PIU.
        The idea of having a rapid drawdown facility in form of a gate on spillway's wall
was not implemented in Armenian dam designs previously. Meantime the issue of rapid
drawdown of the reservoir and especially of its higher elevations is very essential for
those dams where there is no irrigation pipeline with a large diameter (and there are many
such cases in Armenia). This solution was applied also at Marmarik dam thus increasing
safety level at once problematic dam.
Component B. Dam Safety Sustainability
       Sub-component B.1. Dam Safety Plan includes instrumentation plan of equipment
that was installed at the dam during rehabilitation, O&M plan, Emergency Preparedness
Plan. Safety plans were prepared or updated for all 27 rehabilitated dams at the design
stage.
       Sub-component B.2. Dam safety equipment includes monitoring equipment
(piezometers, benchmarks, flowmeters for seepage measurement), sirens, radio stations,
generators, facilities for operation staff, etc. New equipment was installed or the existind
was repaired on all 27 rehabilitated dams.
       Sub-component B.3. The following equipment was procured and transferred to the
agency responsible for the dams O&M:
·      monitoring equipment that will be used at all irrigation dams in addition to 20
       dams rehabilitated under the project to increase their operation safety;
·      vehicles;
·      heavy equipment;
       Following is the list of equipment and machinery.



                                            35
                                 Table 3. Monitoring Equipment
 N                                Name                                 Number       Cost ($US)
1.    Mechanical water gauge, CPR 6-150PM                                1            825.00
2.    Movable flow meter 4 l, CAP 4                                      1            530.00
3.    Movable flow meter 10 l, CAP 10                                    1            509.00
4.    Convergence meter, Distomatic                                      1          11,890.00
5.    Inductive water level measurement device, Nivoflo                  1           6,112.00
6.    Soil pressure measurement device, G-200                            1          11,987.00
7.    Bi-axial inclinometer, Geocline                                    1           2,753.00
8.    Depth water sampler, Sisgeo                                        1           6,779.00
9.    Inflatable motor boat, Yamaha 9,9HP                                1           6,882.00
10.   Theodolite electronic, Trimble 3600 DR                             1          217,43.16
11.   Laser distance meter, DISTO                                        1           6,128.58
12.   Electronic distance meter, DI 2002                                 1          19,225.00
13.   GPS, SR 530                                                        1          32,928.27
14.   Sonic depth meter, Navisound 210                                   1          25,060.30
15.   Concrete strength meter,       50- 4                               1           1,951.80
16.   Device for measurement of chlorine content in concrete,            1           2,968.23
17.   Concrete pH-meter                                                  1            571.42
18.   Ultrasonic device for measurement of concrete thickness, DIO       1           3,068.34
19.   Device for measurement of reinforcement thickness and location     1           2,477.68
20.   Device of visual inspection of pipes,                              1          25,960.33
21.   Ultrasonic tester for measurement of concrete thickness and        1           1,992.28
      Total                                                                         192,342.39

            Following is the list of vehicles provided to dam sites.
                                         Table 4. Vehicles
                      Dam name                          Main dam        Number of vehicles
      Arpilich                                            Karnut                1
      Tavshut
      Karnut
      Vardakar                                           Vardakar               1
      Mantash
      Sarnakhbyur
      Azat                                                 Azat                 1
      Sovetashen
      Aygedzor                                            Tavush                1
      Tavush
      Hakhum
      Gegarkunik- 2                                    Gegarkunik- 2            1
      Sevaberd                                           Sevaberd               1


                                                  36
                Dam name                           Main dam          Number of vehicles
  Gegardalich
  Kakavadzor- 2                                   Kakavadzor- 2                1
  Upper Bazmaberd
  Aparan                                             Aparan                    1
  Halavar
  Herher                                             Herher                    1
  David-Bek
  Mechanical workshop                                                          1
  Central office                                                               3
  TOTAL                                                                        13

         Following is the list of heavy equipment provided to the DME.
                                 Table 4. Heavy Equipment
      Heavy equipment name                          Number of procured units
                                       Under 1st tender  Under 2nd tender           Total pcs
Bulldozer, 75-80 h.p.                         3                  2                     5
Bulldozer, 140-160 h.p.                       3                  2                     5
Excavator 70-80 h.p., bucket 0.5 m3           3                  3                     6
Excavator 60-70 h.p., bucket 0.25 m3          1                  0                     1
Compressor                                    1                  0                     1
Electrical welding device                     1                  2                     3
Trailer                                       1                  0                     1
Dump truck                                    1                  1                     2
Movable workshop                              1                  0                     1
Total                                        15                  10                    25

         The 15 units of heavy equipment under Stage 1 were procured in 2005 at a cost of
 US$462,499.0. The Stage 2 tender was carried out in 2009 after the revision of types and
 quantities envisaged originally under Project. As a result, three units of truck cranes
 (crane-manipulators) were procured at a cost of US$274,371.0 instead of 10 units of
 heavy equipment envisaged under Project for Stage 2. In total, 18 units of heavy
 equipment were procured under DSP at a cost of US$736,870.
         In order to secure safe O&M of dams, in addition to equipment procured and
 provided to DME, training was organized under the Project for dam operation staff of all
 20 rehabilitated dams and PIU staff. The purpose of training was to make operation staff
 familiar with institutional changes that have been occurring or would occur after
 rehabilitation works (construction of new structures, installation of new valves, etc.) and
 to learn operation procedures of new structures to ensure their safe operation and
 maintenance and timely prevention of failures and potential emergency cases. Another
 purpose of the training was to give information about the assessment of dangerous
 situations and the actions of dam operators in such situations. The target set for this
 activity of the Project was exceeded: 122 dam operators were trained instead of planned
 111.


                                             37
        Sub-component B.4. Investigations of the remaining 60 dams in the country
included laboratory and field studies, calculation of spillway capacities, calculation of
dam slopes' stability, etc. Based on the investigation results, priority rehabilitation works
were selected and cost estimated for all the dams. As a result, 47 dams were selected
where urgent rehabilitation works were carried out later under the DSP II repeater
project.

Component C. Project Management
        This component covered: (i) incremental operating costs for the PIU, including
audit services; (ii) carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities for the Project;
(iii) the services of the international dam safety expert; and (iv) training of local
specialists.

Component D. Emergency Works
       Implementation arrangements
        The "Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation" PIU (name of the PIU in 2000), which
was in charge of DSP was given the responsibility for coordinating the activities of this
component. A working group, headed by the Minister of Agriculture (MOA), and
including the Director of the DSP PIU, the Director of the ARSP PIU, and one
representative each from the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Marz Administrations,
and Marz Agricultural Support Centers (MASCs) was set up. This group was responsible
for the preparation of the list of beneficiaries, in cooperation with the Heads of Village
Councils, and for ensuring the timely execution of tenders with private agricultural
machinery enterprises for the provision of the emergency assistance.
       Results achieved
         The implementation of the component went according to the schedule. Given the
emergency nature of the component the schedule of works implemented is interesting to
follow. Since the amendment became effective on December 1, 2000, it was not possible
anymore to perform field preparation works in 2000 and that activity was shifted to
spring of 2001. Tender for importation of seeds (wheat and barley) was announced on
February, 16, 2001, and opening of proposals took place on February 26, 2001. On
March 2, 2001, the Project Management Board (PMB) announced a winner - Yeghvard
factory for compound foods, with which on March 6, 2001 a contract was signed for the
amount of US$1.816 million. The transportation of seeds from the Russian port
Novorossijsk to Armenia was done with assistance of the US Department for
International Aid (USAID). With MOA assistance, the commission comprised of 10
MOA experts and specialists from the Center for Seeds Quality Assurance and Protection
was send to Russia to check the quality of 7,837.8 tons of seeds before their
transportation to Armenia. The first tranche of seeds in the quantity of 2,928.3 tons (47
carriages) entered the country on March 31 and April 1 of 2001. The second tranche of
seeds in the quantity of 2,476.0 tons entered Armenia on April 9 and 10, 2001, and the
last tranche of 2,517.4 tons - on April 11, 2001 (82 carriages in total). The distribution of
seeds among affected Marzes is presented in the table:
                              Table 5. Distribution of Seeds


                                             38
         The railway station     Name of the Marz Quantity of seeds distributed (in tons)
     1   Vanadzor                Lori                             470.4
                                 Tavush                           203.0
     2. Gyumri                   Shirak                          1,862.1
     3. Sevan                    Gegharkunik                     1,843.6
     4. Eghvard factory          Syunik                          1,006.9
                                 Kotayk                           809.6
                                 Aragatsotn                      1,334.7
                                 Ararat                           307.5
         TOTAL                                          7,837.8 ( 129 carriages)

        The national tenders were conducted for field preparation works, including
ploughing, other pre-planting works, planting of seeds. Overall there were 48 lots, and as
a result contracts were signed with 28 contractors for carrying out the mentioned works.
The total amount of the costs of the works comprised US$1.974 million. The following
table shows distribution of ha according to marzes as of April 19, 2001.
                      Table 6. Distribution of Works among Marzes
     Name of the Marz          Total area (ha) Ploughing (ha) Pre-planting     Planting (ha)
                                                               works (ha)
1    Aragatsotn                    6,575           4,550         4,550             2,730
2    Ararat                          600            580           100               60
3    Armavir                         800            400            70
4    Gegharkunik                   9,082           4,600         3,400            2,110
5    Lori                          2,317           1,564         1,564            1,150
6    Kotayk                        3,988           2,140         1,880            1,800
7    Shirak                        9,173           5,184         4,797            4,164
8    Syunik                        4,960           4,500         2,600            2,500
9    Vayots Dzor                     915            603           539              489
10   Tavush                        1,000            770           671              521
     TOTAL                         39,410          24,891        20,171           15,524

        Overall, the field preparation works were carried out in 611 communities with a
total population of about 180,000 and the beneficiaries of the project component were
about 50,000 households.

4. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

        The original Closing Date of the Project was set as March 31, 2005, but was
extended three times: to September 30, 2007, to December 31, 2008 and finally to
September 30, 2009 respectively. All extensions were due to completion of one activity:
rehabilitation of Marmarik Dam.


First extension of the Project
        The WB Supervision Mission that took place in March 2004 assessed the works
carried out under the Project. The mission stated that the works implemented under DSP


                                               39
had large impact in terms of risk reduction and long-term sustainability. However, there
were still essential activities that had to be implemented in order to develop further and
consolidate the achievement of goals set forth by the Project.
        Following discussions with the GOA, it was agreed to divide the activities subject
to funding into two groups: activities to be implemented through saved funds generated
during DSP implementation, and activities to be implemented under funds to be provided
for the repeater project (Irrigation Dam Safety Project II). The first group of activities
included activities of relatively higher priority. The unused funds were allocated for
financing the rehabilitation of five dams, including Marmarik dam. According to the
assessments, a 30-months extension was required for implementation of rehabilitation
works.
         Initially Marmarik dam was designed as a reservoir with a 64 m height dam, a
total storage of 36.9 Mm3 and useful storage 34.0 Mm3. Construction of the reservoir was
completed in November 1974. The downstream slope of the dam failed right after
completion of civil works, several days prior to the planned filling of the reservoir. As a
result, the dam crest settled by 13.5 m over the length of 350 m. About 500,000 m3 of soil
slid downstream.
        The reservoir posed significant risk to population of about 142,000 people living
downstream. The diversion tunnel represented the greatest risk among structures of the
reservoir. The tunnel operated for 35 years although it had been designed as a temporary
structure with a useful period of five-six years only. The tunnel was calculated to pass the
river flow of 50 meters per second (m3/s), meantime the discharge of 0.01 percent
probability flood makes up to 120 m3/s. In case of failure of diversion tunnel, the river
flow will accumulate in the reservoir causing overtopping and washing of dam. This was
one of the main reasons for inclusion of rehabilitation of the Marmarik Reservoir into
DSP.
       Construction is still underway and is carried out by the consortium of
Sahakyanshin CJSC - Horizon 95 LTD ­Arkhmonstroy LTD for the contractual cost of
4,568.8 million AMD or about US$10.0 million. Technical supervision is carried out by
Hayjrnakhagits Institute CJSC.
       Second extension of the Project
        There were two reasons for delays of rehabilitation works on the Marmarik
Reservoir: (i) late receipt of Conclusion of the State Expert Examination Commission,
and (ii) the tender process. Furthermore, the implementation schedule was 30 months
(partially according to Conclusion of State Expert Examination) which was by six months
more than it was proposed after completion of investigations.
       Delays due to Conclusion of State Expert Examination
        The design of hydraulic structures in Armenia (like in many other countries) may
be prepared only after the receipt of a positive conclusion of the State Expert
Examination Commission on the Preliminary Design. Marmarik dam also underwent
expert examination however it was more thorough taking into account the importance and
the previous failure of the dam.



                                            40
         First, the Commission required to strengthen and to re-calculate dam slope
stability. Furthermore, the Commission required additional data on geological and
seismic conditions at the site which required new field investigations. The Commission
also required carrying out special internal erosion calculations for the dam foundation.
Even more, the results of those calculations were sent to the Vedeneev Scientific-
Research Institute of Hydraulic Structures for analysis. This is the best institute in the
CIS countries and has a world-wide reputation.
        Over seven months was spent on various discussions, implementation of new field
investigations and the analysis of internal erosion calculations in Moscow. These took
one moth longer than it was planned during the first extension of the Project.
       Delays accumulated during tender process
        First of all, taking into account the complexity of the project, the tender
documents had to be checked by WB Dam Expert in addition to a technical expert of the
team. However the main delay during the tender process came from the complaint of one
firm which participated in the tender for technical supervision over construction of the
Marmarik Dam. The firm argued that they were the only firm among tender participants
that had its own soil laboratory and the contract should be awarded to them according to
the provisions of the Terms of Reference (TORs). The complaint was rejected after
consideration, however this issue froze both tenders (civil works and technical
supervision) and caused 3-4 months delay compared to the schedule that was planned
during the first extension of the DSP. As a result, the Project was extended by 15 months
until December 31, 2008.
       Third extension of the Project
         According to the rehabilitation design, about 1,800,000 cubic meters (m3) of
loam-clay soil and sand soil was to be removed from the dam body. The suitable part of
that excavated soil with the total volume of 800,000 m3 was to be brought back as a new
fill. However, laboratory investigation of soil implemented during excavation of the dam
(such investigations were provided under the rehabilitation design) identified that the
excavated soil was not good to be used as a fill. It actually was represented by crushed
rock and crushed rock-sand soil with up to 20 percent of rock fragments. Therefore it
became necessary to introduce changes into the design, and it was decided to place
pebble-gravel soil into the dam shells. Additional geological and topographic surveys,
stability re-calculation were conducted during investigations. The cross-sections of shells
and core, the drainage layer between old and new dam bodies were changed.
       All the above factors, together with the advert weather, caused works delay and
about US$3.0 million would remained undisbursed if the Project Closing Date, i.e.
December 31, 2008, remained unchanged. Therefore GOA applied to the Bank with a
request to set September 30, 2009 as a new Closing Date and the Bank satisfied that
request.




                                            41
                                                   Non official translation from Armenian

                               STATE COMMITTEE OF WATER MANAGEMENT
                     OF THE RA MINISTRY OF TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATION


                                                               CHAIRMAN
      _____________________________________________________________________
                                                                            N 10- AA07/382
                                                                             March 09, 2010

To:     Mr. Aristomene Varoudakis
        Country Manager
        World Bank, Armenia Country Office




        Dear Mr. Varoudakis,


        In response to your letter of February 26, 2010 I would like to inform you that the
State Committee of Water Management of the RA Ministry of Territorial Administration
does not have comments or recommendations in respect to the Dam Safety Project
Implementation Completion Report.




                                       Sincerely yours,
                                          (signature)
                                        A.Andreasyan




                                            42
                       Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

1. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. July 31, 1997, N16988-AM
2. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. April 25, 2001, N22111-AM
3. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. June 30, 2004, N28991-AM
4. Country Partnership Strategy for Armenia. June 11, 2009, N48222-AM
5. Project Appraisal Document for the Dam Safety Project, May 25, 1999, N19362-AM
6. Project Appraisal Document for the Irrigation Development Project, August 7, 2001,
   Report N 22599-AM
7. Project Appraisal Document for the Irrigation Dam Safety II Project, May 10, 2004,
   N29000-AM
8. Project Paper for Additional Financing for the Irrigation Development Project, July 2,
   2007, Report N40171-AM
9. Project Paper for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project, July 9, 2009,
   N49331-AM
10. Implementation Completion Report for the Irrigation Development Project,
    December 15, 2009, N:ICR00001145
11. Government Decree N92, dated February 8, 2001, on establishment of the State
    Committee of Water Management.
12. Government Decree N577, dated December 15, 1994, on establishment of the Water
    Sector Development and Institutional Improvements Project Implementation Unit.
13. Republic of Armenia Construction Norms.
14. Environmental Management Plan for the Dam Safety Project.
15. Economic Analysis Working Files
16. Aide Memoires of the Supervision Missions
17. Project Status Reports and ISRs
18. PIU Progress reports
19. Consultants field studies/reports
20. Borrower's Completion Report




                                           43
MAP
