FILE COPY
Report No. 1510b-PAN
Appraisal of the Fourth Power Project (Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project) Instituto de Recursos
Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE) Panama
June 10, 1977
Energy Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
oniy in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization,



CURRENCY A2ND EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                   =          Balboa (B)
US$1.00                         =          B 1.00 = 100 centesimos
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW                              =          kilowatt
MW                              =          Megawatt = 1000 kW
kWh                             =          kilowatt hour
GWh                             =          Gigawatt hour = 1 million kWh
kV                              =          kilo volt
kVA                             =          kilo volt - ampere
MVA                             =          Megavolt-ampere = 1000 kVA
mile                            =          1.609 km2
square mile                     =          2.590 km
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FyL        -    Compañia Panameña de Fuerza y Luz
IRHE       -    Instituto de Recursos Hidráulicos y Electrificación
C.T. MAIN  -    Chas T. Main International Inc.
PANCANAL   -   Panama Canal Company
IDB        -    Inter-American Development Bank
INTEL      -    Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
Stone &
Webster   -    Stone & Webster Overseas Consultants Incorporated
EXIMBANK   -    Export Import Bank
IRHE'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF TRE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  WND CONCLUSIONS                                       i - i
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                1
2.  THE POWER SECTOR                                            3
Energy Resources                                            3
Sector Organization                                         4
Power Market                                                5
Rural Electrification                                       6
Regulation and Tariff Structure                             6
Sector Planning and Future Developments                     7
3.  THE BORROWER                                                8
Organization and Management                                 8
Accounting and Audit                                        9
Risk Management                                             9
Performance Indicators                                     10
4.  THE PROJECT                                                11
Investnent Program for 1977-1983                          11
Project Description                                        11
Project Costs                                              12
Engineering and Consulting Services                        14
Procurement                                                14
Project Execution and Implementation                       14
Complementary Projects                                    15
Loan Dísbursement                                          15
Ecology                                                    16
Project Risks                                              16
5.  JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                               18
Sector Objectives                                          18
Project Objectives                                         18
Load Forecast                                              18
Least Cost Solution                                        18
Return on Investment                                       19
Thbi document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienta only in the performance
of their offi l dutie,. lis contenta may not otherwiu be disced without World bnk authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
6.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS                                             20
Summary                                                       20
Past Earnings and Financial Position                          20
Financing Plan                                                21
Future Finances                                               23
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                        24
This report was prepared by Messrs. Mario Aguilar and Sergio Contreras



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX I   -  POWER MARKET AND EXPANSION PROGRAM
Attachment 1   Electrificatíon in Panama in 1975
Attachment 2   Public Servíce Capacity in Panama
Attachment 3   Actual and Forecast Sales and Energy Supply
Attachment 4   Major IRHE Systems - Energy Balance
Attachment 5   Major IRHE Systems - Power Balance
Attachment 6   Actual & Planned Capacity and Available Generation in the
Interconnected System
Attachment 7   Graph of Power Balance in the Interconnected System
Attachment 8   Graph of Energy Balance in the Interconnected System
ANNEX II - LEGISLATION
ANNEX III - ELECTRICITY TARIFFS
Attachment 1   New Electricity Tariff Categories
Attachment 2   Comparison of Old aud New kWh Cbarges for Sorne Typical Consumptions
Attachment 3   Terms of Reference for a Study of Marginal Costs
ANNEX IV  -  ORGANIZATION CHART
ANNEX V   -  ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF TRE PROJECT
Attachment 1   Internal Rate of Return
ANNEX VI  -  PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COST
Attachment 1   Summary of Project Cost and Financing
Attachment 2   Project Cost and Financing
Attachment 3   Engineering Consulting Services - Base Cost Estimate
Attachment 4   Organization.and Training Consulting Services - Base Cost Estimate
ANNEX VII -  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Attachment 1   Fortuna Project Organízation Chart
Attachment 2   Fortuna Project CPM Chart
Attachment 3   Fortuna Project Bar Charts
Attachment 4   Fortuna Project Implementation Schedule Key Dates
ANNEX VIII - ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
ANNEX IX  -  FORECAST PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ANNEX X   -  FINANCES
Attachment 1   Key Fínancial Ratios
Attachment 2   Income Statements
Attachment 3   Sources and Applications of Funds
Attachment 4   Balance Sheets
Attachment 5   Work in Progress and Composition of Capital
Attachment 6   Rate Base
Attachment 7   Terms Applicable  to Long-Term Debt
Attachment 8   Long-Term Debt Statements
Attachment 9   Disbursement and Amortization Statements
Attachment 10 Interest Charged to Construction
Attachment 11 Interest Charged to Income



Attachment 12 Investment and Financing Programs
Attachment 13 Assumptions Used in Projections
ANNEX XI - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Attachment 1   Sensitivity Analysis
MAP IBRD - 127Q6R



- i -
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraiseskthe Fourth Power Project (Fortuna Hydroelectric
Project) which forms part of IRRE's expansion program for the period 1977-83,
and for which IRHE has requested Bank financing.
ii.       The Bank has provided financial assistance to the Panamanian power
sector since 1962 through three loans to IRHE.  These loans, which were made
in 1962, 1970 and 1974 helped finance primarily the expansion of generation,
transmission and distribution facilities. The projects financed by the first
two loans have been completed and the third is expected to be completed in 1978.
The physical execution of the projects has been satisfactory, but there have
been long delays and large cost overruns.
iii.      The power sector is by now almost entirely owned by the Government
which has organized it under one company, IRHE.  IRHE's takeover of all the
responsibilities in the Panamanian power sector has resulted in a rapid growth
with which it is still coping. Its current organization is the result of
several changes implemented on the basis of studies made by IRHE's own staff,
but the assistance of experienced consultants is needed to study and implement
changes which would improve the decision-making process as well as provide
a more appropriate definition of procedures and funetions. Steps towards
studying and implementing as soon as possible the reorganization are being
complemented by a comprehensive training program.
iv.       The proposed Fortuna project was recommended in a Master Plan
for the power sector carried out in 1975-1976 by C.T. Main of Boston and represents
the least-cost alternative to meet prospective demand beginning in 1983. It
would substitute for high-cost thermal generation and would consist of a
255 1l4 hydro power plant and associated transmission system. In addition,
the project will include an organization and training component. The project's
financial requirements are estimated at US$253.6 million, with a US$181.3
million foreign currency component (including US$31.3 million interest during
construction) and a US$72.3 million local currency component. The project
would be financed by the Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
suppliers' credits, IRHE's own cash generation and Governiment contributions.
v.        The US$42 million proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign com-
ponent of a part of the civil works and equipment for the hydro power plant,
the transmission system associated with the plant, engineering services and
IRHE's organizational ímprovement and training program.  IRHE would engage
consultants for the design and supervision of construction of all the project
items and for the preparation of the bidding documents and evaluation of bids
for the civil works and equipment included in the project.



- ii -
vi.       Bank-financed items would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. IDB-financed items would be procured
according to IDB guidelines, while the rest of the project items would be procured
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
vii.      During 1974-1976, cost overruns in IRIiE's expansion program, absence
of tariff íncreases over and above the substantial fuel cost increases, and
delays by the Governnment in paying its electricity bills and making capital
contributions strained IRHE finances.   The management of IRHEIs
finances has been made more difficult by lack of appropriate planning and
organizational arrangements to handle IRHE's expanded operations.  As a result,
the company incurred excessive amounts of short- and medium-term commercial
loans leadíng to working capital problems. To help correct matters the Govern-
ment began in January 1977, a phased program of tariff increases which would
permit IRHE to earn a 7% rate of return on its revalued assets in 1977,
8% in 1978, and 8.75% in 1979 a¶d thereafter.  The 10.5%increaseeffective
January 1977 and further 1% monthly increases frci February through December
1977 will help improve IRHE's pósition, and further support should come from
revenues from future tariff increases. IRHE is expected to finance 52% of its
1977-83 expansion program from internal resources, while international lending
agencies would provide 22%; suppliers, 16%; and the Government, the remaining 10%.
viii.     The return on the investment in the project and associated transmission
and distribution investments required to utilize its output, is estimated at
17.7%. The major uncertainties affecting this return are the possibility of
cost overruns normally associated with large projects of this type and of lower-
than-expected sales growth. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the return
would be reduced to 15.7% if investment and operating costs are assumed to
rise by 15% and to 14.3% if, in addition, the growth in sales is reduced by 15%.
ix.       IRHE and the Government are taking important steps to solve IRHE's
management and financial problems. While the possibility of a recurrence of
past difficulties cannot be disftissed, their actions indicate recognition
that a major public utility such as IRHE must be run in a businesslike manner
if it is to provide efficient services to the public without constituting an
excessive burden on the Government's resources.
x.        With the assurances obtained during negotiations listed in Section 7,
the project would form a suitable basis for a Bank loan to IRHE with the
guarantee of the Government of Panama of US$42 million equivalent. The term would
be 17 years including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.



APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the Fourth Power Project (Fortuna Hydro-
electric Project) in Panama, for which the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos
y Electrificacion (IRHE), the autonomous Government entity responsible for
the supply of electricity in Panama, and the Government have requested
financial assistance.
1.02      Since 1962, IRHE has received three Bank loans, totalling PS$76
million. The first, Loan 322-PAN for US$4 million in 1962, assisted IRHE
in financing the construction of the 6 MW La Yeguada hydroelectric project
and associated facilities, the installation of 3 MW of diesel generation
and rehabilitation of distribution systems - all of which are now in operation.
The La Yeguada hydro plant, the main item of the project, was commissioned
several months after the expected completion date. However, the final project
cost was not substantially different from the appraisal estimate. The second,
Loan 661-PAN for US$42 million in 1970, helped IRHE to finance the foreign
exchange component of the 150 MW first stage of the Bayano hydroelectric plant;
the 40 MW steam unit No. 4 at Bahia Las Minas; associated transmission; 6 MW
of diesel generating capacity in rural areas; expansion of IRHE's distribution
system; and studies, training and consultants' services. All these items are
now in operation and the studies have been completed. During the execution
of the Second Power Project, IRHE encountered major dífficulties which resulted
in a total delay of about 22 months in the implementation of the project and
cost overruns amounting to US$49 million or about 84% of the appraisal estimate.
At the Las Minas thermal plant, the main problems were the need to improve the
design of the water intake and delays due to strikes at the equipment supplier's
factory abroad. At the Bayano project, the main difficulties were the need to
change the consulting engineers, financial difficulties and poor performance
of the main contractor and shortages of materials. Other causes for difficulties
were IRHE's lack of experience in dealing with large projects and higher-than-
expected inflation rates in 1972-75. The third, Loan 948-PAN for US$30 million
in 1974, is assisting IRHE in financing the foreign exchange of the 28 MW San
Francisco diesel generating plant; expansion of IRHE's transmission, subtrans-
mission and distribution systems; a load dispatch and communications center;
and studies, engineering and training. During the execution of the Third Power
Project, IRHE has been slow in procuring the varíous project items, mainly due
to inexperience in handling proctirement of the type included in the project.
In addition, IRHE has had some difficulties with suppliers of transmission-line
towers and with the commissioning of the San Francisco diesel units. These units
have had failures during the test period as a result of defects in design and
errors during erection and test. IRHE has requested the manufacturer to
make changes in the design of the units and to extend the guarantee period.
The rest of the project components are now progressing normally.



- 2 -
A training program was begun under Loan 948-PAN but IRHE has been slow in
implementing it. The project is expected to be completed in mid-1978, with
a delay of 12 months. The project costs are expected to total US$48.2 million,
including a cost overrun of US$9.7 million (25%) of the appraisal estimate.
The cost overruns are due to higher-than-forecast bid prices and inflation.
The Second and Third projects are still economically justified, despite their
higher-than-forecast cost.
1.03      The project now proposed for Bank financíng would comprise the
construction of the 255 MW Fortuna hydroelectric development; installation
of a transmission system, including 42 km of a 230 kV double-circuit line
from Fortuna to David; installation of the Fortuna switchyard; and the
addition of 175 MVA of transformer capacity at the 230 kV Panama substation.
The project also includes an organizational improvement program and training,
which should help avoid a recurrence of the problems IRHE experienced during
the prior projects. The cost of the project is estimated at US$222 million,
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$150 million.
1.04      The Bank loan of US$42  million would fínance the foreign cost of
the river diversion, dam and spíllway, the ancillary electromechanical equipment
and the transmission system; the engineering services for these items; and
organizational and training studies and implementation of their recommendations.
1.05      The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is expected to provide
US$98 million in financing for the foreign cost of the underground works of
the power plant and assocíated engineering services. IRHE expects to obtain
suppliers' credits totallíng US$21.6 million for the main generating equipment.
IRHE and the Government would contribute US$92 million equivalent.
1.06      The project would support the Government's efforts to reduce Panama's
dependence on imported petroleum by developing the country's hydroelectric
potential. Of particular importance are the project features designed to
strengthen IRHE's organization, planning, fínancing, staff development and
operation, which should lead to improved performance of the utility, the
largest public enterprise in Panama.
1.07      This report is based on reports prepared by IRHE and its consultants,
Charles T. Main & Co. (C.T. Main) and Stone & Webster Overseas Consultants
Incorporated (Stone & Webster), and the findings of the appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. M. Aguilar and S. Contreras, which visited Panama in
November 1976.



2. THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources
2.01      The most important energy resource identified so far in Panama
is hydro energy. IRHE has under study about 30 sites at which hydro
plants could be developed in the future, totalling about 1,900 MW and
10,000 GWh per year. IRHE is also investigating the possible development
of geothermal energy in the vicinity of Cerro Pando near the border with
Costa Rica. The studies are being carried out by the Cerro Colorado
Mining Corporation (an autonomous agency owned by the Government), with
the assistance of UNDP and the Institute of Geological Science (England),
but no conclusive results are available at this time. The studies are
expected to be completed by mid-1978. There are no developed coal depo-
sits in Panama, but there are indications that coal does exist in the
vicinity of Tres Hermanas in Colon province. The Cerro Colorado Mining
Corporation, based on geophysical studies, has estimated the coal reserves
at 10 million tons. While Panama has no known petroleum resources, pre-
liminary explorations are under way at the Gulf of Los Mosquitos on the
Atlantic coast. The only data available at this time on other energy
resources concern the utilization of sugar bagasse as fuel at the plants
owned by the sugar'industry (about 28 MW). This provides an annual
generation of about 53 GWh. Most of the electric energy production in
Panama was thermal up to 1976, when the Bayano hydroelectric plant was
commissioned.  IRHE's expansion program includes mainly hydroelectric
developments (La Estrella and Los Valles plants in 1979 and Fortuna
in 1983).
2.02      Panama depends heavily on petroleum and relies on imports to
meet its requirements. The Las Minas refinery, supplied mainly with crude
oil from Venezuela, has a capacity of 100,000 Bbl per day and provides the
fuel for thermal generation, other domestic uses and exports. About 75% of
the petroleum Panama imports is reexported, mainly in the form of bunker
products, and Government is now considering new oil handling capacity through
the construction of an oil pipeline from the Pacific to the Atlantic and
expansion of the existing refinery capacity to about 300,000 Bbl per day.
This expansion would aim at increasing exports of petroleum products.
In an effort to reduce domestic energy consumption, the Government
has introduced the following measures:
(i) prices of gasoline and liquified gas have been raised significantly,
in excess of the increase in the import cost, as shown in the
following table:



- 4 -
Retail Prices for Fuels
197 3/    1976"z   19772/
------(US$/gallon)…
Regular gasoline           0.47       0.90      0.99 /
Premium gasoline           0.51       1.00       1.10
Diesel oil                 0.36       0.50      0.55
Kerosene                   0.32       0.50      0.55
Liquified gas              --------…-(US$)…--------
25 pound tank           3.10       3.48      4.00
100 pound tank          12.00      13.41     15.42
(i>)  the electricity tariff structure has been changed and prices
increased (Annex III);
(iii)  the number of official vehicles has been reduced, unnecessary
field tríps have been eliminated and the use of air conditioners
in many public buildings has been reduced or totally stopped.
2.03       The Government has shown interest in the exploration of energy
resources and is taking measures to reduce energy consumption without
sacrificing development objectives. However, there would be room for
improved sector coordinatin and further increases in fuel prices to induce
conservation. The Bank intends to explore these issues further with the
Government in the context of its sector work.
Sector Organization
2.04       IRHE, created in 1961 and charged with coordinating and expanding
public service electricity supply throughout the country, became the major
institution in the power sector after the acquisition from Boise Cascade (USA)
of the Compañía Panameña de Fuerza y Luz (FyL), which was the largest
electricity distributor in the country, in 1972. By 1975, IRHE was responsible
for 97% of the public servíce capacity installed in Panama (Annex I).
2.05       In 1976 IRHE's operations covered all the provinces, except for
the areas supplied by the privately-owned Hidroelectrica La Chorrera (La
Chorrera) in West Panama province (about 3 MW) and by the municipal company
at Bocas del Toro (less than 1 MW). IRHE is currently negotiating the
purchase of the La Chorrera assets, with an estimated value of some US$0.4
million equivalent, and will begin dírectly supplying the La Chorrera area
from the interconnected system in mid-1977.
2.06       An agreement dated 1969 providas for power and energy sales up
to 30 MW and 210 GWh per year by IRHE to the Panama Canal Company  (PANCANAL).
Thís agreement was suspended by mutual agreement between September 1, 1972
and December 31, 1976, and was resurmed in January 1, 1977. PANCANAL has a
usable installed capacity of 139 MW of which 24 MW correspond to hydro
plants, 60 MW to gas turbines and the rest to steam plants.
1/ End of year.
2/ New prices as of January 1, 1977.
3/ Price for public transportation is 15% lower.



-5-
Power Market
2.07       The proportion of the population connected to public-service
electricity supply in Panama was 48.5% in 1975 and the per capita consumption
was 610 kWh. The proportion of the population served varied from a high
of 68.9% in Panama provincel/ to a low of 11.7% in Darien province (see Annex I).
2.08       The sales forecast for revenue calculations for the period 1977-84
are shown in Annex I, Attachment 2.1. This forecast was made with annual
growth rates slightly lower than those adopted for IRHE's expansion program.
The forecast does not include the needs of the Cerro Colorado copper mine
(Annex 1, para. 7).
2.09       Total power sales in the systems now supplied by IRHE had an average
annual growth rate of 11.4% in the period 1969-76. Residential and commercial
customers have been the most important in number and in amount of sales;
residential, commercial, Government and industrial customers represented
34.6%, 32.2%, 17.4% and 11.4%, respectively, of IRHE's total sales in 1976.
The load forecast assumes an average annual growth of sales of 11.8% in the
period 1977-84 (see para. 5.03). Residential, conmercial, Government and indus-
trial customers would represent 33.7%, 34.1%, 15% and 9.4%, respectively, of
IRHE's total sales by 1984. These figures are not strictly comparable to
the ones for 1969-76, because of the reclassification of clients following
the January 1, 1977 tariff changes. A summary of sales by consumer category
in 1968, 1976 and the forecast for 1984 are shown in the table below.
Sales by Consumer Category in GWh
Average annual          Average annual          Average annual
growth rate             growth rate             growth rate
Category    1968    1969-76         1976       1977-84       1984      1969-84
(%)                      (%O)                  (%)
Residential 152.1      12.1        380.1        11.4        901.3        11.8
Commercial  166.6       9.9        353.8        12.6        911.5        11.2
Industrial   78.9       6.0        125.5         9.1        251.5         7.5
Government &
Municipal   52.6      17.5        190.6         9.7        400.6        13.5
Subtotal    450.2      11.2      1,050.0        11.3      2,464.9        11.2
Wholesale    11.9       18.9        47.6        20.41/      210.0        19.7
Total       462.1      11.4      1,097,6        11,8     2.674,9        11,6
1/ The actual figure is higher since the estimate is based on five persons per
family. In low-income areas, several families are connected to a single meter
(small cooperatives).
2/ The rapid growth in the wholesale category is due to the resunption of sales
to PANCANAL (see footnote 2/ in Attachment 3 to Annex I).



2.10      IRHE's large bulk consumers are becoming an increasingly important
source of revenue, and pricing of power will be an important factor in future
investment decisions. As noted in para. 2.14, IRHE has agreed to study íts
cost of service and its implications for pricing. In addition, in order to
ensure adequate revenues, IRHE agreed to sell power to large users at prices
no lower than the marginal cost.
Rural Electrification-
2.11       Although the Government, in the context of its rural development
policies, aims at providing adequate electricity to the rural areas, a long-term
program has not yet been developed for rural electrification and low income
consumers in Panama.  Decree No. 235 of July 30, 1969 (Article 2a) states only
that IRHE should provide electricity supply in the rural regions.  In
compliance, IRHE has been includíng in íts programs the electrification of
rural areas on the basis of an analysis of individual programs. However,
IRHE does not have a long-term rural electrification program. In 1976,
IRHE added a Rural Electrification Section under its Planning Directorate
to coordinate the expansion of supply to the rural areas with the Ministry
of Planning. Recently IRHE has requested IDB financing for a long-term
planning study of the electricity supply to the rural areas.
Regulation and Tariff Structure
2.12       Law No. 31 of September 27, 1958, provides adequate regulation for
the electric industry and effectively guarantees a minimum rate of return on
the rate base, which is defined as net revalued fixed assets in operation,
plus working capital of three months' revenue; the minimum rate in the case
of IRHE is 8-3/4%. However, the elimination of the National Commission of
Electricity, Gas, and Telephones in November 1974 left a legal void with
respect to approval of tariffs, which was filled by Law No. 45 of August 5,
1976. This law states that electricity tariffs will be approved by the
President of the Republíc, acting on IRHE's recommendation. Effective January 1,
1977, the Government enacted Decree No. 20 allowing IRHE to implement the
first phase of an agreed tariff increase program consisting of (i) a new
unified tariff structure, which is expected to yield a 10.5% revenue increase,
and (ii) the application of further monthly tariff increases of 1% from
February 1, 1977, through December 1, 1977. These increases are expected
to produce a 7% return on IRHE's revalued rate base in 1977. Decree No. 20
also allows IRHE, to increase tariffs to reach an 8% return in 1978, and
8.75% in 1979 and thereafter (Annex X, para. 5). IRHE and the Government
have agreed to a rate of return covenant citing the above minimum rates of
return; changes of the electricity legislation, including Decree No. 20,
so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condi-
tion of IRHE or the carrying out of the Project will be an event of default
under the proposed loan.
2.13       Because of the gradual organizational integration of the power
sector under IRHE's authority, a large number of tariff categories (21) existed
up to 1976. Effective January 1, 1977, IRHE started a phased implementation
of a unified set of tariffs common to five consumer categories throughout the
country (Annex III, Attachmentsl and 2). Both the old and the new tariffs are
of the promotional declining block charge type. However, under the new schedule,
the price of the last two blocks has been raised for residential customers,
which will tend to discourage unnecessary electricity consumption. There has
been a marginal reduction in prices for small residential customers.



2.14       The new tariff structure is simpler than the previous system and
reduces discrimination against the rural customers. However, IRHE has
not yet taken into consideration the actual cost of service in structuring
tariffs. The new rates may, therefore, not ensure optimum allocation of
resources in the economy (Annex III, para. 3). To overcome this uncertainty
IRHE has agreed to study the cost of service and its implications for pricing.
IRHE has agreed to hire, not later than December 31, 1977, consultants acceptable
to the Bank under agreed terms of reference, and to discuss not later than June
30, 1979, their findings with the Bank for future implementation (Annex III,
Attachment 3).
Sector Planning and Future Developments
2.15       The objectives of IRHE's expansion program may be summarized as
follows:
(i) Interconnection of small isolated systems to form regional systems;
(ii) Interconnection of the regional systems through a high voltage
national grid; and
(iii)  Development of hydro resources to supply the increase in demand
and to substitute for high cost thermal generation.
2.16       Power sector planning has been carríed out by IRHE wíth the
assistance of consultants. In 1975-76 C.T. Main, wíth IDB financing, updated
Panama's Master Electrification Plan for the period 1975-1990.



- 8 -
3. THE BORROWER
3.01      The Borrower would be IRHE, an autonomous agency of the Panamanían
Government, charged with the task of developing and operating the generating,
transmission and distribution facílitíes in the power sector of the country.
IRHE was created by Law No. 37 of January 31, 1961, which assigned to it the
exclusive right to develop the hydro resources of the country. Law No. 235,
replacing Law No. 37, was passed in July 1969. Thís new law charged IRHE
with the exclusive right to construct and operate all new sources of generation
in the country, and gave it a satisfactory basis on which to operate as an
autonomous agency (Annex II).
3.02      In mid-1972 IRHE's role again changed significantly when the Govern-
ment purchased all the assets of Compañia Panameña de Fuerza y Luz (FyL), a sub-
sidiary of Boise Cascade (USA), the largest distributor of electricity in
Panama, and vested them in IRHE. FyL had concessions for the operation of
electricity, telephones and gas services in the cities of Panama and Cdlon, but
during the consideration of Loan 948-PAN, the Government and the Bank agreed
that IRHE should be divested of the telephone and gas operations as soon as
possible. A new autonomous agency, the Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(INTEL) took over the telephone operations in January 1, 1974, and subsequently,
in 1976 IRHE closed its gas operations in Colon. The Panama City gas activities
produce a loss of about US$0.2 million equivalent per annum, which is not
material.
3.03      Since 1974, IRHE has been adversely affected by (a) delays in adapt-
ing the enterprise's organization to the requirement of its greatly expanded
role and dimension; and (b) inereased Government intervention in the power
sector arísing, to a large extent, from the public's sensitivity to sharply
rising fuel costs. As a result, IRHE was not always able to use its staff's
expertise to address its problems, which resulted in delays to act promptly
on matters such as tariff increases and organizational problems. The Bank has
obtained a satisfactory statement reasserting IRHE's autonomy and its commit-
ment to sound management policies. IRHE is taking steps to strengthen its
organization (para 3.07) and has obtained Government approval for required
electricity rate increases. (para. 2.12).
Organization and Management
3.04      IRHE's Board of Directors is composed of seven members.  The Chairman
is the Minister of Planning and Economic Policy and the Vice-Chairman is the
representative of the Federation of Industrialists. Other members are repre-
sentatives of the Banking Association, Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
Engineers' Society,Ministry of Agricultural Development and the workers'
association (IRHE's union). IRHE's annual operating and capital budgets have
to be approved by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy. While this
procedure detracts from IRHE's autonomy, it tends to improve country-wide
fiscal planning.
3.05      Administration is entrusted to a Director General, a Deputy Director
General and a Technical Director. The first two are appointed by the Government.
The Technical Director is appointed by the Director General.



- 9 -
3.06      IRHE's current organization (Annex IV) provides for five Direc-
torates: Finances, Development and Planning, Institutional Organization,
Operations, and Engineering, all reporting to the Technical Director.
3.07      After discussions with the Bank, IRHE hired Stone & Webster to review
its technical, financial and administrative operations. The Diagnostic Study
(presented to the Bank in May 1977) contains for each area: (a) an analysis
of performance;  (b)  a description of existing problems;  (c) reconmendation
on how to solve the problems with an indication of priorities; (d) pre-
liminary Terms of Reference to carry out the recommendations of the study;
and (e) a cost estimate for an organizational improvement and training program
for IRHE. IRHE has agreed to implement the recommendations of the Diagnostic
Study with the assistance of satisfactory consultants.   IRHE has also agreed
to hire the consultants--under detailed Terms of Reference to be discussed with
the Bank--as a condition for loan effectiveness and to complete the implementation
of the organizational improvement and training program not later than June 30,
1980.
Accounting and Audit
3.08      Even though IRHE has improved its financial systems, it has not
been able to keep pace with the growth of its operations nor to integrate the
accounts of the companies it has acquired. The organization improvement and
training program described above includes proposals for strengthening IRHE's
financial operations. In addition, IRHE has agreed to present to the Bank by
December 31, 1978, a study showing the composition of all current assets and
liabilities and other assets and liabilities accounts and the improved pro-
cedures that will be instituted to avoid recurrence of past problems (Annex
X, Attachment 13, para. 12). A progress report will be presented to the Bank
by December 31, 1977.
3.09      The local representatives of the international accounting firm
Arthur Andersen & Co., who are acceptable to the Bank, audited IRHE's accounts
in 1975 and have been engaged to audit the 1976-77 accounts. IRHE has agreed
to continue to engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and to
provide the Bank with certified copies of its financial statements within four
months of the end of each fiscal year, together with the auditors' detailed
reports.
Risk Management
3.10      IRHE carrnes insurance against risks arising from civil liability,
motor vehicle claims, crimes, fire, lightning, explosion, flood, accident
claims and income loss due to equipment failure for specified plants, ware-
houses and buildings. In 1975, IRHE carried out a rationalization of its
practices and, as a result, the utility now contracts its insurance policies
with three companies through a broker who also serves as advisor on the sub-
ject.  While this new setup allowed IRHE to obtain some savings, it can still
improve its overall risk management policies, and insurance administration.
For example, claims for income loss due to equipment failure have never been
filed, and, due to the lack of a detailed fixed asset inventory, the roster
of fixed assets insured is incomplete and what does appear is stated at
historical rather than actual cash or replacement values. The organization
study now under way includes examination of the entire risk management area.



- 10 -
During negotiations, IRHE agreed to continue to maintain insurance in amounts
and on risks in accordance with sound public utility and business practices
and has given assurances that it will discuss with the Bank its overall risk
management situation in light of the recommendations of the organizational
study.
Performance Indicators
3.11      The performance indicators shown in Annex IX define targets for
improvement in IRHE's operations. It was agreed that they would be used to
monitor IRHE's performance during project execution.



- 11 -
4. THE PROJECT
Investment Program for 1977-83
4.01      IRRE expects to carry out the following investment program in
1977-83:
(a)  Generation - Complete the hydroelectric projects
La Estrella and Los Valles (80 MW) in 1979 and Fortuna
(255 MW) in 1983 and initiate the next two generation
projects (tentatively identified as a 75 MW expansion
of the existing Las Minas steam plant and the 296 MW
Teribe hydroelectric project).
(b) Transmission
(i) 433 km of 230 kV and 192 km of 115 kV lines; and
(ii) 855 MVA of 230 kV transformers and 697 MVA of 115
kV trarsformers.
(c) Subtransmission and Distribution
(1) 12 km of 44 kV and 154 km of 34.5 kV lines;1/
(ii)  157 MVA of 44 kV and 34.5 kV stepdown transformers;_/
and
(iii)  distribution systems expansion for connecting atout
100 thousand new customers.
(d)  Complete the national load dispatch and conmunication center.
(e) Perform studies and training.
The investment program is expected to total about US$676.4 million (para. 6.04).
Project Description
4.02      The project, for which a detailed description is given in Annex VI,
would consist of:
(i) the Fortuna hydroelectric power plant, which would have a
capacity of about 255 MW and an estimated average annual generation
of 1,320 GWh during normal-hydrology years and 1,155 GWh during
dry years (probability 1/20) comprising:
11 44 kV voltage facilities are being phased out.



- 12 -
(a)  Díversíon works consísting of 20-m-h4gh rockfill
cofferdam and 280-m-long diversion tunnel;
(b)  Rockfíll dam (450,000 m3 with upstream concrete facing)
and ungated spillway, to impound 13 million m3;
(c)  Power tunnel of about 6,000 m long, surge tank and pen-
stock about 1,400 m long;
(d) Underground powerhouse with 3 generatíng units each
wíth an 85 MW capacity and 1,650 m long access tunnel;
(e)  Tailrace tunnel 8,300 m long; and
(f) Access road, camp and other minor works.
(ii) the Fortuna transmíssion system, consisting of:
(a) 230 kV switchyard at Fortuna;
(b) 230 kV double-circuit transmissíon line about 41 km long
from Fortuna to the future David substation; and
(c) Enlargement of Panama substation with one 175 MVA 230/115
kV transformer and switchgear.
(iii)  IRHE's organizational improvement program and training.
4.03      The proposed US$42 million Bank loan would cover 100% of the
estimated foreign currency requirements for: items (a), (b) and the ancillary
electromechanical equipment of item (d) of the power plant and for parts
(ií) and (iií), as well as the associated engineering services. The foreign
currency requirements for items (c), (d) (excluding equipment) and (e) of the
power plant, associated engineering services and interest on the IDB loan during
construction, would be covered by IDB financing totalling US$98 million.
Suppliers' credits totalling US$21.6 million are expected to finance 90%
of the cost of the main generating equipment and power transformers for ítem
(d) of part (i).  IRHE and the Government, with a US$92 million contribution
would finance ítem (f) of the power plant, 10% of the total requírements for
the main generating equipment and power transformers, 100% of the local currency
requirements for the project, and the balance of the interest during construc-
tion.
Project Costs
4.04      The estímated cost of the project is US$222.3 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$150 million. The total financial requirements for
the project, including interest during construction and excluding duties and
taxes, are estimated at US$253.6 million. The cost estimate for organization
and training is based on the díagnostic study and terms of reference prepared
by Stone & Webster (para. 3.07). The base cost of the project is expressed
in prices of December 1976. Physical contingencies of 10% for equipment,
30% for underground civil works and 15% for other civil works were assumed.
Price contingencies are based on annual rates ranging from 6% for engineering



- 13 -
and administration to 12% for civil works (Annex VI)..1/ The project cost is
summarized in the following table:
Project Cost
(millions of B   and US$)
Local          Foreign          Total
Fortuna Hydroelectric Power Plant
Civil Works
River diversion, dam and spillway             3.52            11.22J/        14.74
Other civil works                            26.79            42.23          69.02
Power House Equípment
Main equipment and power transformers         1.46            13.35          14.81
Ancillary electromechanical equipment         0.65              4.311/        4.96
Subtotal                           32.42            71.11         103.53
Fortuna Transmission System                   2.07             4.582/         6.65
Organization and Training                     0.55             1.5212         2.07
Engineering and Administration
Engineering for river diversion,
dam and spillway and transmission
system                                      1.77             1.702/         3.47
Other engineering services and
administration of the project               6.33             6.06          12.39
Subtotal                            8.10             7.76         15.86
Total Base Cost                    43.14            84.97        128.11
Physical contingencies                        7.39            15.23          22.62
Price contingencies                          21.75            49.77          71.52
Total Project Cost                 72.28          149.97         222.25
Interest during construction                                                 31.35
Total financial requirements                                                253.60
1/ These price escalation coefficients are somewhat higher than expected increases
in international prices, which is reasonable in view of past experience with
similar nrojects in Panama ana. current expectations.
2/ Items financed by proposed Bank loan.



- 14
Engineering and Consultíng Services
4.05      IRHE has agreed to engage consultants to design and supervise con-
struction of the hydroelectric plant and transmission items and to prepare
bidding documents and assist in bid evaluation for the acquisition of all the
equipment included in the project. IRHE has proposed C.T. Main to carry out
these services because the fírm has already prepared the feasibility study,
prelmiínary design and a part of the bídding documents for the project, with
financing by the EXIMBANK. Even though IRHE would sign only one contract
covering all the consulting services, the contract would be split into two
parts showing the engineering services fí-nanced by the Bank and those by IDB
sepe.ratahy. The cost estimate for engineering services is based on the rates
specífled in the contract already negotíated by IRHE and C.T. Main  which are
detailed in Annex VI, Attachment 3.  '",le average rate under the contract
(excludíng travel, subsistence and certain minor allowances) would be US$6,850
per man month. The estimated average cost of consulting services for the
organization and training component of the project is US$6,500 per man month.
It is estimated that a total of 416 man months of consulting services would
be financed by the Bank loan.
4,06      IRHE and IDB have agreed that IRHE, iír addition to obtaining the
consliting services described in paragraph 4.05, will retain a Board of
Consultantsl/ to act as an advisory body to IRHE and its consultants for
problems related to the Fortuna hydroelectric power plant during the execution
of the project.
Procurement
4 07      All the civil works, equipment and materials to be financed under
the proposed loan would be procured, and the contracts for their construction,
installation or erection awarded, followlng international competitive bidding,
.n accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Because Panamanian manufacturers
do not presently produce equipment of the type to be financed by the Bank
loan (and are not expected to do so during the project's construction period)
the Government has not requested preference for local suppliers. Items
financed by IDB would be procured in accordance with IDB's guidelines. IRHE
has agreed to present to the Bank for comment the bidding documents for
procurement of items to be financed by suppliers' credits prior to issuing
them, with the purpose of ensuríng that these items conform to the specifications
and are procured on schedule.
Project Execution and Implementation
4.08      The project is estimated to be completed by mid-1983, and the
Clos^ng Date for the Bank loan would be December 31, 1983. The detailed project
procurement and construction schedule agreed with IRHE (Annex VII) would be
used to monitor project implementation. The items to be financed by IDB should
be inítiated in 1977-78, as they are on the critical path for project comple-
tion. Of the items to be financed by the Bank, only the organizational improve-
1/ The Board consists of Dr. Don U. Deere, Dr. Jack W. Hilf and
Dr. J. Barry Cook, all of them internationally recognized experts.



- 15 -
ment program and training needs to be initiated immediately. However, the
Government and IRHE wished to complete arrangements with the major lenders
(the Bank and IDB) prior to initiation of the project. They therefore
requested a joint appraisal by both institutions. The status of the IDB
financing is discussed in para. 6.06.
Complementary Projects
4.09      The following transmission works, which are being built under
the La Estrella and Los Valles projects are required to use the output
of Fortuna. IRHE has therefore agreed to have these items completed not later
than June 1980:
(a)  David-Llano Sanchez double circuit, 230 kV, 195 km long
transmission line;
(b)  David substation, 2 x 70 MVA, 230/115/34.5 kV transformers
and switchgear;
(c) La Chorrera and Panama substation uprating from 115 to
230 kV; and
(d) Llano Sanchez 230 kV/115 kV/34.5 kV substation (switching
and stepdown substation).
According to the current construction schedule, these items (which are estimated
to cost US$31.0 million, of which US$18.7 million would be the foreign
compcnent) would be ready not later than 1980. IRHE is currently negotiating
the financing for these items and has committed itself to commission them on
schedule. The Government has agreed to promptly provide financing for these
items if IRHE were not able to obtain it on appropriate terms.
Loan Disbursement
4.10      Disbursements from the loan account would be made for:
(a) 76% of the total expenditures of the civil works contract
covering the construction of the river diversion, dam and
spillway (the estimated foreign exchange component);
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures on ancillary electromechanical
equipment for the powerhouse, erection and installation;
(c) 100% of the foreign expenditures on equipment and materials,
for the Fortuna switchyard, the Fortuna-David transmission line
and the Panama substation enlargement, erection and installation;
(d) 100% of the foreign expenditures on engineering services for
the final design and construction supervision of the river
diversion, dam and spillway, Fortuna switchyard, Fortuna-David
transmission line and Panama substation enlargement;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services for the
organizational improvement program; and



- 16 -
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services, overseas
fellowships and equipment for training.
The loan would be disbursed over a períod of about 6 years and a schedule
showing the estimated rate of disbursements is given in Annex VIII.
Ecology
4.11      According to the report on the Fortuna ecology, carried out by
the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, the project will not adversely affect the
environment, provided that some specific actions are undertaken. The costs
of carrying out these measures are included as part of the project costs to
be financed by IRHE.
4.12      IRHE and the Governnent have agreed to carry out the project with
due regard to the ecological and environmental factors and in particular to
implement all the recommendations included in the Fortuna Ecology Study.
The most important recommendations are that:
(a) A corps of forest keepers should be created to enforce
the preservation of the Upper Chiriqui River basin;
(b)  About 120 families living in the area to be flooded and
in the Upper Chiriquí area should be relocated or
compensated for their land;
(e)  A study of the black-fly in the zone of the future operators'
village should be carried out to obtain the information
required to implement a permanent control program in that area.
(There is no indication that the black-flies in the region
would transmit river blindness, a disease unknown in Panama.)
If the operators' village is established and occupied before
the conclusions of the study are known, a palliative control
program of the black-fly should be implemented;
(d) A health division should be established in the labor
settlement area during the construction period;
(e) The lake basin should be cleared of trees; and
(f)  Excavated materials at specific sites should be disposed of
properly.
Project Risks
4.13      In the past, IRHE has evidenced managerial, financial and technical
problems, which, together with its lack of experience in dealing with large
projects and the impact of external causes, such as inflation and poor
contractors' performance, resulted in delays and cost overruns (para. 1.02).
As noted in para. 3.03, IRHE's problems have deriídmainly from its rapid
growth and the sensitivity of the Government to public opiníon regarding
power tariffs in a period of unprecedented inflation. As a result,
IRHE has at times failed to use its



- 17 -
staff's technical expertise to identify problems and propose solutions. This
has, in turn, been reflected in considerable resistance In the past on IRHE's
part to the timely implementation of commitments entered into with the Bank
on matters such as revaluation of assets, tariff increases, borrowings and
capital investments. Over the same period, the Government has experienced
fiscal constraints which led to difficulties in collecting Government payments
for service and committed equity contributions.  Continuance of these problems,
which added to the burden of delays in obtaining Government approval to tariff
increases, would significantly affect IRHE's financial performance (Annex X,
para. 3).
4.14      These problems were discussed extensively with the Government and
IRHE during the preparation of theproject.  The Government and IRHE have
provided assurances that IRHE would:
(1)  generate an adequate level of revenues, from its
users, thereby permitting the fínancing of its
expansion program in conjunction with borrowed
funds;
(íi)  be run as a businesslike organization within the frame-
work of the Government's economic and social policies; and
(iíi)  select its investments on the basis of economic criteria.
Viewed in conjuction with the concrete measures taken recently to strengthen
IRHE's organization and finances, these assurances provide a satísfactory
basis for Bank support for the project.
4.15      Aside from these general institutional risks, the project carries
the normal risk associated with any large development of this nature. To
assist it in dealing with any problems which may arise during construction
(which are provided for in the physical contingency allowances), IRHE has
engaged competent consultants and would in addition be able to draw on the
specialized expertise of the internationally recognized members of its
Board of Consultants. To minimize subsequent risk, IRHE has agreed to make
satisfactory dam inspection arrangenients.



- 18 -
5. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Sector Objectives
5.01      The Bank objectives in lending for electric power development in
Panama are:
(i) to support the expansion of the power sector, which is an
essential element in the Government's development strategy;
and
(ii) assist IRRE to improve its organization, planning, financing,
staff development and operation.
These objectives have been partially accomplished under Loans 661-PAN and 948-
PAN, but IRHE still requires strong support in the institutional areas
mentioned above.
Project Objectives
5.02       The project is necessary to supply the  power market after 1982,
when energy requirements will exceed IRHE's firm availability (Annex I,
Attachment 4). The project would provide facilities to expand IRHE's
generating capacíty and high voltage transmission system so that the country
would be able to utilize the hydroelectric energy available in the province
of Chiriqui. This energy would be utilized in the interconnected system and
its supply to the different regions optimized through IRHE's economic dispatch
facilities provided under Loan 948-PAN. This would allow IRHE to substitute
a large part of its thermal generation, thus contríbuting to a reduction in
petroleum  imports, and provide for the supply of the increasing demands from
1983. IRHE and the Government have decided to coordinate rural electrification
development from a national point of view, which would accelerate the implementation
of agriculture projects and would help to bring electricity supply to a large number
of inhabitants. Reliable public service supply is most important to support the
National Development Plan as it will encourage investments in the industrial and
agricultural sectors.
Load Forecast
5.03       The compound growth rate of the energy sales in the period 1969-76 was
11.4% (para. 2.09). However, sales declined slightly (0.7%) in 1974 because
of the impact of increase in oil prices and a Government campaign to reduce
excessive electrícity consumption. During the last two years, the growth
of IRHE's sales has shown a steady recovery (6.2% in 1975 and 8.3% in 1976).
A substantial increase (26.5%) of sales has been forecast for 1977 due to the
incorporation of new bulk customers (see footnote 2/ in Attachment 3 of Annex I).
For the period 1977-84, the projection assumes an average annual growth rate
of 11.8% which is reasonable.
Least-Cost Solution
5.04       In the 1975-76 updating of Panama's Master Electrification Plan, C.T.
Main recommended the expansion program for IRHE for the period 1975-90, after
considering several development sequences. The program represents the least-cost
solution, considering the discounted value of ínvestment, operation and
maintenance costs. The recommended program, compared with an alternatíve



- 19 -
thermal program has a lower cost for discount rates below 16.5%. The first
expansion recommended is the Fortuna hydroelectric plant. The possibility
of delaying the Fortuna project commissioning by two years and substituting
a thermal project was evaluated, and the, results indicated that the alternative
program would have a higher cost for discount rates below 19%. A sensitivity
analysis shows that, even with a 30% increase in the investment costs of
hydroelectric plants, the recommended program has a lower cost than the rest
of the alternatives for      discount rates up to 15%.
Return on Investment
5.05      In view of the complexity of the systems effects and the difficulty
in allocating the benefits (measured in terms of revenues) produced by the
project, a rate of return on the project was not calculated. However, the
return on an overall investment program (including transmission and distribution
investments required to utilize the project's output) has been estimated to be
17.7%. This return has been evaluated by equalizing the present worth of
the revenues derived from incremental sales, and the present worth of incremental
system investient and operation costs, all valued at the December 1976 price
level. The main uncertainties which may affect this return are those associated
with large civil works projects, and the possibility of lower-than-expected
sales. A sensitivity analysis carried out to determine the effects of increases
in investment and operating costs and a decrease in the average growth rate
of the energy sales indicated that:
(i)  with a 15% increase in investment and operating costs, the
rate of return would be 15.7%; and
(ii)  with a 15% increase in investment and operating costs and a
15% reduction in the average growth rate of the energy sales, the
rate of return would be 14.3% (Annex V).
5.06      The actual return is undoubtedly higher than the above rates since
they have been computed using revenues as a proxy for the benefits derived from
the program and they do not take into account other benefits not reflected in
electricity prices. The rates of return obtained indicate that the size
of the project is economically justified and that the electricity prices will,
on average, be higher than incremental system costs, suggesting that
wasteful use of energy will be avoided. The tariff structure studies referred
to in para. 2.14 will permit the Government and IRHE to introduce adjustments
to eliminate any distortions which may be identified in particular tariff
categories.



- 20 -
6. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
S ummary
6.01       The Government has recently authorized electricity tariff increases
which should strengthen IRHE's financial performance. To ensure the maintenance
of a satisfactory performance level, it has been agreed that IRHE's rate of
return on revalued assets would be increased further, reaching 8.75% in 1979
and subsequent years. Details of IRHE's historical and projected finances
are given in Annex X. Attachment 1 of that Annex shows key ratios which
indicate a steady improvement in IRHE's finances during the project's
construction period as a result of expected higher earning levels and longer
maturities on IRHE's borrowing, which more than offset increased borrowing
costs.
Past Earnings and Financial Position
6.02       IRHE's financial performance has not been satisfactory, mainly
because of large cost overruns in its expansion program, partly caused by
factors outside the control of IRHE or the Government, low tariff levels, delayed
and insufficíent Government contributions, and a high level of receivables.
Prior loan agreements with IRHE contained rate of return covenants which
called for maintenance of an 8.75% return in accordance with Panamanían legislation.
Though IRHE's performance under this test was satisfactory through 1973 (when
an 11.3% rate of return on historically valued assets was achieved), it has
deteriorated subsequently. Despite increases in unit revenues aggregating
about 75% in 1974-76 as a result of the operation of the fuel clause 1/. IRHE's
rate of return on revalued assets had declined to 2.1% by 1976. At the Government's
request the Bank waived the rate of return requirement for the period 1974-
76, on the understanding that a plan would be implemented to strengthen IRHE's
organization and finances. As noted in para. 2.12, the Government has
recently decreed gradual tariff increases starting January 1, 1977, which
should stabilize IRHE's return at the 8.75% level by 1979.
6.03       In order to offset the financial gaps resulting from the above problems,
IRHE resorted in 1974-76 to excessive medíum- and short-term financíng which,
in turn, resulted in an erosion of its working capital and an overburdened
debt servíce schedule over the medium-term. Prevíous Bank loans to IRHE
included a debt limitation agreement by which the utility could not borrow
without the Bank's concurrence if net revenues covered its maximum future
debt service requirement (including the debt proposed to be incurred)
less than 1.4 times. This covenant has been repeated in connection with the
proposed loan. The Bank agreed in early 1977 to IRHE's US$25 million 7-year
(2 years grace) borrowing from a consortium of commercial banks, under
the condition that it would repay its outstanding short-term  debt.  IRHE has
agreed to limit the level of short-term debt to one-sixth of its cash
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses during the preceding
12-month period.  To reduce the need for such borrowings, IRHE has agreed
to maintain no more than 60 days of electricity billings outstanding, and
the Government has implemented speed-up procedures for timely payment of
central Government and autonomous agencies' electricity bills; it has also
informed the Bank that it has decided to implement the same speed-up procedures
for the Municipalities; the latter is a condítion of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
1/  A mechanism by which IRHE passes on to the consumers the increases in the cost of
fuel over and above a reference value (B 12 per Barrel of crude oil), as they occi



- 21 -
Financing Plan
6.04      IRHE's 1977-83 investment and financing schedules are detailed in
Annex X, Attachment 12; future projects 3/ which are part of IRHE's expansion
programs but for which feasibility studies are not yet complete and cost
estimates are too tentative have been separated from ongoing and proposed
projects; a summary follows:
Total Program
Amounts
(in millions of
US dollars)           %
Investment
Construction expenditures-/
On-going projects 2/ 3/                                      85.5               13
Proposed Fortuna project 3/                                 253.6               38
Complementary transmission 3/                                36.6                5
Distribution, rural electrification and others 3/           177.6               26
Future projects 4/                                           94.3               14
Total construction expenditures                        647.6                96
Increase in cash balances and others                          28.8                4
Total                                                  676.4              100
Financing
Borrowings:
Existing Loans                                               52.1                8
Proposed Loans:
IBRD - Fortuna                                          42.0                6
IDB - Fortuna                                           98.0               14
Suppliers                                               67.4               10
Total borrowings                                       259.5               38
Government equity contributions and subsidies                69.2               10
Net cash generation                                          347.7               52
Total                                                  676.4              100
1/  Includes interest during construction and the organization and training
program.
2/  Third Project and La Estrella and Los Valles hydroelectric projects.
3/  These items form the expansion program agreed with the Bank.
4/  Includes mainly the Teribe hydroelectric project; expenditures start in
1980. As noted in para. 6.09, IRHE would review future major projects
with the Bank.



- 22 -
6.05      The Fortuna Project would be financed by (i) the proposed US$42
million 17-year (including 3-1/2 years grace) Bank loan; (íi) US$21.6 millaon
in suppliers' credits with an estimated 14-year maturity (including 4 years
grace) and 10% interest rate; and (iii) US$98 million in financing from IDB
consisting of funds from three sources: US$40 millíon from IDB's ordinary
capital and US$30 million from the Venezuelan Trust Fund, both for 25 years (including
6-1/2 and 6 years grace, respectively) carrying an 8.6% interest rate, and a US$28
million commercial bank complementary line of credit for an estimated 9-year
period (including 2 years grace) and interest rate of 9%.1/ The IDB financing
package includes about US$17 million for interest during construction on the
US$98 million loan package.
6.06      It is expected that IRHE will be able to obtain the US$21.6 million
financing for the main generating equipment for Fortuna. However, bid opening for
this equipment will take place in late 1977 and it would be impossible to get firm
offers at this stage. The Government has agreed to make arrangements for the
financing of these items in the event that IRHE is unable to obtain supplierst
credits on terms acceptable to the Bank. The IDB loan has been approved by the
IDB Loan Committee. IDB intends to present it to its Board after it completes
arrangements for the US$28 million complementary line of credit, which it expects
to do in July-August. Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for obtaining all
necessary financing for the project would bea condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
6.07      The US$52.1 million equivalent in draw-downs from existing loans
ínclude US$7.1 million from the Bank (Loan 948-PAN), and US$45.0 million
suppliers' credits. During the period 1977-83, IRHE expects to borrow from
suppliers about US$28.0 million for financing the David-Llano Sanchez transmission
line and related substatíons (with total requirements of US$36.6 million, including
interest during construction). Bids have been evaluated and IRHE is currently
negotiating a supply and financing contract with the successful bidder, which
has offered terms similar to those assumed in the projections.
6.08      The Government has provided in its 1976-1980 National Development
Plan US$50 million equity contributions for IRHE's 1977-1983 investment
program; of these, US$35 million were assigned to the Fortuna project.
The Government has agreed to provide IRHE with the above amounts. In
addition, the Government provides IRHE with a subsidy equivalent to 10%
of its fuel consumption; this subsidy, which is expected to aggregate
US$20 millíon in 1977-83, is not transferred to the consumers and is an
íntegral part of IRHE's financing plan. IRHE is expected to contribute
US$347.7 míllion from internal resources (or 52% of the total), to íts
1977-83 financing plan of which US$50 million would be for the Fortuna project.
IRHE's proposed financing plan for the project appears realistic and the
contribution of funds by the various sources seems well balanced.
6.09      In order to ensure an orderly financing process, IRHE has agreed
that it will not undertake or permit to be undertaken on its behalf during
project execution, any major investment project (defined as involving
aggregate expenditures in excess of 1% of IRHE's gross fixed assets) other
than those which have been reviewed by the Bank (see footnote 3/ in para. 6.04),
unless it has furnished to the Bank satisfactory evidence that such projects
are economically justified and that it will have adequate financial, technical
and managerial resources to carry them out.
1/ IDB estimate; projections were prepared assuming a 10% interest rate.



- 23 -
Future Finances
6.10      The legislated tariff increases (para. 2.12) are designed to
reach certain minimum rates of return, computed on a rate base calculated
on the basis of annually revalued fixed assets. The revaluation of fixed
assets is performed in accordance with the method described in Annex X,
Attachment 13, para. 10; IRHE has agreed to continue revaluing its assets
annually on this basis.
6.11      With the legislated tariff increases-1/ and the expected financing
program IRHE's financial position should recover in 1977 and should continue
improving thereafter. Consequently, IRHE's debt service coverage is expected
to improve from 1.0 in 1976 to 2.8 by 1983, and IRHE's capital structure (which
is affected to a large extent by the revaluation of its fixed assets) to be
strengthened dramatically, with the debt/equity ratio of 41/59 in 1976, declining
to 16/84 by 1983. A sensitivity analysis (Annex XI) highlights the importance
of future tariff increases in IRHE's finances; also, it reveals that IRHE
could counteract adverse conditions by introducing moderate tariff increases
in excess of those projected in the financing plan.
1/  Estimated to amount to:
1977           16.5% (compounded)
1978            1  %
1979             7.6%
1980            5.6%
1981            1.3%
1982          nil
1983             1.3%



- 24 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
principal points:
With the Government that it:
(a)  will promptly provide IRHE with the equity contributions included
in the 1976-1980 National Development Plan, and the amounts
required for the main generating equipment for the project, and
for the complementary projects, if IRHE is not able to obtain
financing on terms acceptable to the Bank (paras. 4.09 and 6.06);
With IRHE that it:
(b)  will sell power to large users at rates no lower than the
marginal cost of energy (para. 2.10), and will carry out
a study of marginal cost pricing (para. 2.14);
(c)  will complete the complementary projects not later than
June 1980 (para. 4.09);
(d)  will in the future resort to short-term borrowings only with
the Bank's concurrence unless it has met a short-term debt
test (para. 6.03);
(e) will seek to maintain no more than 60 days of electricity
billings outstanding (para. 6.03);
(f) shall not, until the project has been completed, undertake or
permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any major expansion
project, not included in the Program, without the Bank's
concurrence (para. 6.09);
(g) wíll continue to revalue its fixed assets annually on the basis
of the agreed method (para. 6.10);
Wíth IRIE and the Government:
(h)  that tariffs will be set to attain a 7% retura in 1977, 8% ín
1978, and 8.75% in 1979 and thereafter (para. 2.12).
7.02      Prior to declaring the loan effective:
(a) IRHE should hire the consulting firm for the organization
and training component of the project (para. 3.07);
(b) the Goverament should have implemented speed-up procedures
designed to ensure timely payment of Munícípalities' electricity
bills, as discussed during negotiations (para. 6.03); and
(c) satisfactory arrangements have been made for obtaining all necessary
financing for the project (para. 6.06).



- 25 -
7.03      In the loan agreement, the following existing covenants have
been confirmed:
That IRRE will:
(a) continue to have its accounts audited by independent public
accountants acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.08);
(b) not incur debt of more than one year maturity without the
Bank's agreement if its net revenues are less than 1.4 times
its maximum projected debt service requirement (para. 6.03).
7.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$42 million, The term would be 17 years,
including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.
June 10, 1977






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Power Market and Expansion Program
Power and Energy Balance in Panama in the Period 1976-84
1.        The energy balance in Panama included in Attachment 4 is an
updated version of the C.T. Main original forecast. The growth rates of
the most probable annual sales forecast were adopted and the sales for 1976
were adjusted to coincide with the actual sales in the same year.  This
procedure was found reasonable in establishing the energy requirements for
planning IRHE's expansions (Attachment 1).
2.        The energy balance (Attachment 4) assumes dry hydrology for plants
in the Chiriqui province only, as dry hydrology statistically does not occur
simultaneously in the Chiriqui province (La Estrella, Los Valles and
La Fortuna hydro plants) and in the Bayano basin. The energy balance shows
the gradual interconnection of the Central-provinces system in 1977-78 and
of the Chiriqui system to the interconnected system in 1979.
3.        The power balance included in Attachment 5 shows the power balance
ín the integrated system only. The net generation required assumes 12%
reserve capacity to the system maximum demand. This criterion, recommended
by C.T. Main was found reasonable by its simplicity and because it is almost
equivalent to considering the failure of the system's largest units.
Actual and Planned Capacity and Generation in the
Integrated System in the Pernod 1976-84
4.        Actual and planned annual capacity and generation per plant in the
interconnected system are shown in Attachment 6. The installed capacity
in the PANCANAL system is also shown in order to have a complete picture of
the installed capacity in the zone of the integrated system.
Future System Expansions
5.        The expansion program recommended by C.T. Main is based on
information collected up to 1974 and includes the following additions:
In Service Date      Plant           Type         Capacity MW
Early 1986           Teribe I        Hydro           296
Early 1988           Teribe II       Hydro           264
Early 1990           Bayano No. 3   Hydro             75
Fortuna raise
to 1050 m      Hydro



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
6.        During the appraisal mission the analysis of the updated power
and energy balance and new information on the status of the feasibility
studies for future projects made necessary some modificatíons to that
expansion program. According to this updated data, new capacity, amounting
to 75 MW and about 530 GWh, would need to be added by 1986 to cover the
gap until the Teribe hydro project comes into operation by the end of 1987.
Pending a new review of the master plan, a 75 MW steam plant at Bahía Las
Minas was added to the expansion program (Attachments 7 and 8).
7.        The proposed new additions do not take into account the supply to
the Cerro Colorado copper mine project under consideration by the Government.
Even though no definite figures nor schedules are now available, it is not ex-
pected that this project with a demand of about 200 MW could be ready before
the mid-1980s. A project of this size would require a reassessment of the
power and energy balances and of the future expansion program when more
accurate information is available.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Electrification in Panama in 1975 -
% of Population with
2/                   Residential         Electric Service
Province                       Area km2       Population-        Families      Customers               _
Bocas del Toro                   8,917           50,980           10,196         2,549                     25.0 -
Cocle                            5,035          134,240           26,848         7,680                     28.6
Colon                            7,465          153,240           30,648        16,907                     55.2
Chiriqui                         8,758          267,180           53,436        16,347                     30.6
Darien                          16,803           24,480            4,896           572                     11.7
Herrera                          2,427           79,280           15,856         6,450                     40.7
Los Santos                       3,867           73,390           14,678         6,492                     44.2
Panama                          11,292          718,650          143,730        99,020                      68.9
Veraguas                        11,086          166,260           33,252         5,627                      16.9
Total Panama                               1,667,700          333,540       161,644                     48.5
1/ Excludes Canal Zone
2/ Estimated as of 7/1/75. Includes Bocas del Toro province.
3/  Mission estimate.                                                                                                    >
>W
H



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Public Service Capacíty in Panama 1/
1970              1971              1972             1973           1974                 1975
W        %          mw       %        MW               mw      %      MW                   MW 
IRHE                   6.0    39.5         6.0      39.5    6.0    39.5    16.1   99.4    16.1    100.0           16.1   100.0
[ydro             Others                 9.2    60.5         9.2      60.5    9.2    60.5       0.1    0.6        -        -          -       -
Total Panama          15.2   100.0        15.2    100.0   15.2   100.0    16.2  100.0    16.1    00.0.           16.1   100.0
IRHE                   8.3    21.6         8.1      21.1   45.0    73.2    80.0   90.8    80.5    .89.3*          81.3    90.1
>iesel and Gas   Others                 30.2    78.4        30.2      78.9   16.5    26.8       8.1    9.2       9.6      10.7       8.9      9.9
Turbine         Total Panama          38.5   100.0        38.3    100.0   61.5   100.0    88.1  100.0    90.1    100.0             90.2   100.0
IRHE                  40.0    36.7        40.0      36.7  149.0   100.0   149.0  100.0   188.4    100.0    182.9   100.0
,team            Others                 69.0    63.3        69.0      63.3      -       -       -       -         -        -         -        -
Total Panama         109.0   100.0       109.0    100.0  149.0   100.0   149.0  100.0   188.4    100.0    182.9   100.0
IRHE                  54.3    33.4        54.1      33.3  200.0    88.6   245.1   96.8   285.0          96.7    280.3    96.9
'otal            Others                108.4    66.6       108.4      66.7   25.7    11.4       8.2    3.2       9.6       3.3       8.9      3.1
Total Panama         162.7   100.0       162.5    100.0  225.7   100.0   253.3  100.0   294.6    100.0    289.2   100.0
! Excludes PANCANAL, Bocas del Toro province and self generation
anuary 1977
II
cr



rrrIrTMho DE RECURUoS EIDRALICO6 Y ELElFICACI0N (Issz)
PANAM                  1/
Actual anad  oreceat Sales und Energy Supply
Ansi
Governoental                                                                              Groth Rate
tear    Residential     Co,aeercial    Industrial    and Municipal    Panoanal    La Chorrera    Total Sales    IRH  Uee    Total SUppDY           S
1968     152.1           166.6          73-9          a52.6            f.9            -            462.1          3.0            465.1
1968  M-1  166.6  7B.9                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31.14
1969       180.8          198.1           88.3           65.4            75.7           -            608.3          3.0           6n.3            1 
13.9
1970       207.9          223.6           95.3           82.1            83.6           -            692.5          3.6           696.1
1971       252.6           247,7         109.8           93.1            51.7          -             754.9          3.6           758.5           11.8
1972       298.1           273.0         113.9           120.0           39.1           -            844.1          3.9            848.o          13.9
1973       330.8           310.3         127.4          123.0            69.3          1.5           962.3          3.3            965.6          -0.7
1974       337.2           337.9         122.9           136.0           18.4          2.7           955.1          3.4            958.5           6.2
4.o   1017.9 ~         4.
1975       354.7           348.6         131.6           158.6           14.7          5.7          1013.9          4.0           1017.9
1976       380.1           353.8         125.5           190,6           37.8          9.8          1097.6          4.6           1102.2
Averge grnth rate peS consumar
catigory in the pariod 1969-76 (%)    12.1            9.9            6.o            17,5                                                                                     6 1.4  S.S  11.4.5
1977       422.3           404.1         138.1           209.4          210.0          5.1           1389.0         5.0           1394.0
1978       472.4           463.9         166.7           233.4          210.0           -           1546.4          5.3           1551.7
1979       528.1           521.9         190.5           261.9          210.0           -           1712.4          5.7           1718.1            9.2
1980       588.5           583,5         201.6           286.7           210.9          -            1870.3         6.0           1876.3
1981       655.3           653.1         213.6           312.9          210.0           -            2044.9         6.3           2051.2            9.3
1982       729.5           730.4         225.5           340.6           210.0          -            2236.0          6.7          2242.7
1983       811.1           816.3         238.4           369.8          210.0           -            2445.6          7.0          2452.6
9.3
1984       901.3           911.5         251.5           40o.6           210.0          -            2674.9          7.3          2682.2
Average grosth rete par conuau1flr
eataegw  l n tha peri.od 1977-S2eo)   11.4            12.6           9,1             9.7             -                           11.6          5.9            íí.8
Average groth rate prr consumaer
category in tha oeriad 1969-84 (%)    11.8            11.2           7.5            13.5            -             _              11.6         4.3             íí.6
1/ Histnri cal data refer to aresa presently served by IRHE.  F9recast doca not include the Cerr- C,l,rad' crmer mine. 
PT Ihe 26.5% lacrease ja due to new larga  uastOsara:-    PanoEnal                   210.0 G0M
Cemento Bayano                 5 .2 GWh
Tocumen Airport               21.4 GWh, sud to the obaorption by IPSE of tnc total eumatocers in the ars, for erly
supplied by Hidroelectrica La Chorrera S.A.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRÁULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Sajor IPHE Systems
2/.
Energy Balance
(GWh)
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984
1. Interconnected System
1.1   Sales
1.1.1 Metropolitan System                                     837.8    879.0    977.3   1096"7   1231.4   1358.0   1498.2   1653.5   1825.9   2017.6
1.1.2 West Panama-Province                                     18.8     24.9      33.0      42.7      50.7      58.4     67.1      76.8      87.9    100.3
1.1.3 Central Provinces                                          -        -       40.4      92.4    106.2    122.1    139.9    159.9    182.4    207. R
1.1.4 Chiriqui Province                                          -        -         -         -       56.1    125.7    140.6    156.9    175.0    195.0
1.1.5 PANCANAL                                                 14.7     37.8    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0    210.0
Total Sales                                          871.3    941.7   1260.7   1441.8   1654.4   1874.2   2055.8   2257.1   2481.2   2730.7
1.2   Loesses
1.2.1 Metropolitan System                                     133.7    140.3    141.1    152.9    165.7    176.5    194.8    215.0    237.4    262.3
1.2.2 West Panama-Province                                      4.5      6.o       7.5       9.3      10.5      11.5      13.2      15.2     17.3      19.8
1.2.3 Central Provinces                                          -                10.5      22.9      25.1      27.5      31.5      36.0     41.1      46.8
1.2.4 Chiriqui Province                                                   -         -         -       14.8      31.5      35.2      39.3     43.8      48.8
1.2.5 PANCANAL                                                  o.6      1.6       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0       9.0
Total Lolses                                         138 8    147.9    168.1    194.1    225.1    256.0    283.7    314.5    348.6    386.7
1.3   Net generation requirt                               lo01.    1089.6   1428.86  1635.9   1879.5   2130.2   2339.5   2571.5   2829.8   3117.4
1.4   Available firm energyJ                                1459.8   1559.8   1992.3-  2068.9   2511.7   2595.7   2595.7   2595.7   3775.7   3694.3
2. Mblor Isolated System.1i
2.1   Central Provinces
2.1.1 Sales                                                   62.7      72.2      40.3        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
2.1.2 Losses                                                  17.2      19.8      10.5        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
2.1.3 Net generation required                                  79.9     92.0      50.8        -         -         -         -        -         -         -
2.1.4 Available net energy                                   108.3    108.3       68.í1I      -         -         -         -        -         -         -
2.2   Chiriqui Province
2.2.1 Sales                                                    78.2     81.7      9o.4    100.2       56.0        -         -        -
2.2.2 Losses                                                  23.9      25.0      26.3      27.7      14.7        -         -        -
2.2.3 Net generation required                                102.1    106.7    116.7    127.9         70.7        -         -        _
2.2.4 Available net energy                                   131.8    131.8    131.8    177.82/  177.8            -         _        _
1     Excludes small isolated systems representing 9.5% of the total sales. D'es n-t include the Cerro Colarado c,rn)er mne.                                                     |b
Dry-year hydrology assumed for hydro plants .2.
s5o  of the available energy included in the Integrated System.
503 of the net generation required is included as Integrated System requirement.
5      From year 1979 onwards dry-year in the Chiriqui province only has been assumed.
/ 46 GWh Diesel generation transferred from the San Francisco plant to the Chiriqui system.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE
PANAMA
Major IRHE Sytems
Power-Bazlgne
1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981        98       1983  
1. Interconnected System
1.1    Masximum demand
1.1.1  Yetropolitan System                                            167.0      181.0     198.5      222.9     249.7      274.2     302.6      334.0     368.8      407.4
1.1.2 West Panama-Province                                              5.7        7.6      10.0       12.9      15.3       17.5      20.0       23.0      26.3       30.0
1.1.3  Central Provinces                                                -          -        10.5       23.8      27.2       31.0      35.5       40.6      46.3       52.7
1.1.4  Chiriqui Province                                                -          -         -          -        12.7       28.1      31.5       35.1      40.5       43.7
1.1.5  System Demand (coincidence = 1.0)                              172.7      188.6     219.0      259.6     304.9      350.8     389.6      432.7     481.9      533.8
1.1.6  System Demand (coincidence = 0.95)                             164.1      179.2     208.1      246.6     289.7      333.3     370.1      411.1     457.8      507.1
1.1.7  PANCANAL Contractual Demand                                      -          -        31.5       31.5      31.5       31.5      31.5       31.5      31.5       31.5
1.1,8  Total System Demand                                            164.1      179.2     239.6      278.1     321.2      364.8     401.6      442.6    4489.3      538,6
1.1.8  Reserve Capacity                                                19.7       21.5      28.8       33.4      38.5       43.8      48.2       53.1      58.7       64.6
1.1.9  Total-Capacity required /                                      183.8      200.7     268.4      311.5     359.7      408.6     449.8      495.7     548.o      603.2
1.1.10  System Firm Capacity                                          235.5      385.5     388.8      401.3     508.1      508.1     508.1      508.1     763.1      747.6.
2. Major Isolated Systems V
2.1    Central Provinces
2.1.1  System Demw-.                                                    17.6      18.9       10.5       -          -         -
2.1.2  Reserve Capacity                                                  2.1       2.3        1.3       -          _         _
2.1.3  Total Capacity Required                                          19.7      21.2       11.8
2.1.4  Available Capacity                                               23.3      23.3       11.8-                 - _       _
2.2    Chiriqui Province
2.2.1  Systeo Demand                                                    18.1      18.9       20.7      22.9       12.7       -
2.2.2  Reserve Capacity                                                  2.2       2.5        2.5       2.5        2.5        -
2.2.3  Total Capacity Required                                          20.3      21.4       23.2      25 4       14.2.4      -
2.2.4  Avaelable Capacity                                               24.3      24.3       24.3      31.8       15.8`       -_
I  Excludes small isolated systems representing 0.5% of the total sales.
J  7.5 MW Diesel groups transferred from the San Fruicisco Plant.
3 /  The rest of the system capacity is included in the inlograted system in the aame year.
Excludes PANCANAL facilities.                                                                                                                                                   111
Includes 5% losBes.k 



INSTITOJTO rE RECUR038 1IDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
A8flal t.9d~An¿W  Caoscit  íad Avallabla               in tob  I.nt.rcopoeeoted Svatt  I
Type of plí.t                    Plant oap-- ity     1971          ...LZ           _ 1978             1       979                .     0.L        ..M      "
1   _gY ___                                         GWII                                                        *                    GD    ra       (I hN_ 1 8 i4 1
L-.. mine.                                       D S                                                    981.0  141.0   981.6     141.0   981  6 141.0  981.6   i41.0  981.6   141.0 981.6   141.0  981.6    141,Á  951 6  141.0  iO1.6    141.0  M81.6
Ser Fran-ts-o                                    D,GT,S                           69.5           69.5 338  6    62.0  341.6V  62.0  341.6   62.0  341.6    62.0 341.6    62.0  341.6    6h..  341.5   62.0  14t.6                62.0  ML
Avenida Sur                                        S                              15.5           15.5   81.4      15.5   81.4    15.5   81.4    15.5   81.4    15.5  81.4    15 5   81.4          13,5   81.1e  4   1i5.   J       _    _    /
Bayano                                             N                             150.0          150.0  100.0    150.0  470,0   150.0  470.0   150.0  560.0   150.0 560.0   150.0  560.0    1Q0.0  560 0  15§o             .8    1U.U .0
Cep1r                                              D                               6.5            6.5   39.8       6.5   39.8      6.5   39.8      6.5   39.8      6,5  39.8      6.5   39.8       e.5   39.8    6.5   39.8       6.5   ».8
ChitrZ                                             D                              14.0             -     -          4.0   24.5    14.0   85.8    14.0   85.8    14.0  85.8    14.0   85.8         14.0   85.8   14.0   85.8       14.0   85.8
Aguedul.j2/                                        D                               2.5             -     -                 -       2.5   15.3      2.5   15.3      2.5  15.3      2.5   15.3       2.5   15.3    2.5   13.3        2.5   15.3
La Yegu874/                                        N                               6.8                             6.8   35.0      6.8   35.0      6.8   35.0      6.8  35.0      6.8   35.0       6.8   35.0    6.8   35.0       6.8   S5.0
Chtriqul4                                          D,H                            26.811/          -                 .     -        _             26,8  177.8    26.8 177.8    26.8  177.8        26.8  177.8   26.8  177.8       29.8  177.8
L. Estrelle'                                       N                              38.0            -                                               38.0  175.0    38.0 259.0    38.0  259.0        M8.0  259.0   38.0  M3  O       30.0  U
Loa Vallea/                                        H                             42.0                                                             42.0  175.0    42.0 259.0    42.0  239.0        42.0  259.0   42.0  M5.0       42.0  S.o
Fortuna 8'                                         H                            150.0                                                 -      -                                           -        -       -    255.9  118      555.0    .0
L« Chnrrre2j3                                      D                               3.0            3.0   18.4       3.0   18,4      3.0   18.4      3.0   18.4      3.0  18.4      3.0   18.4       3.0.  U.4    3.0   1».4         3.0    WLA
T.tal IRNE                                                                         385.5 1559.8    388.8 1992.3   401.3 2068.9   508.1 2511.7   508.1 2595.7  508.1 2595.7    508.1 2393.7  763.1  3773.7   767.6  36.3
2.   PAE61L s.e / ---41
Gatun                                             NH8.-
Madd.n                                             MN4o                                           24.0   -         24.0    -      24.0      _     24.0   -        24.0   -       24.0   -         24,0   -       24.0   -         24.0   -
Miraf1ore                                        gT,s                             9520            95.0   -
ME . Eapa                                         GT                              20.0            20.0   -
Total Pantanal                                                                     139.0   _        139.0    -      139.0   -       13.0   -        139.0 -        139.0   -        139.0   -     139.0   -         139.0   -
TOTAL IOT8GRATED SYSTED                                                             524.5   -        527.8    -      540.3   -       647.1     -    647.1    -    647.1    -         647.1   -     908.1    -           A     -
/ Net su.a  (input to line. st generatlng plata)
2/  D:   Di esel;   GT:   G e   turbin a;  8:   Hydro;   S:  OteaJ
3.  Private Coy
J    ~  riltion d t. -t  -v11-bl. 
1/ -     piste apaoity - 7ant svaílability rastrioted by operation of the Canal
i/ PIst retirad ia 1984
3/  Eieting plat intarated to th& ayt- in rar alhoan
3/  ll plent csisaiond in yper ahsn
/  7.5 W  of diaael cepeíty treaferred to Chiriqui.  Nea lev apead díada viith full generattín
s  lao               t de-sel  fith  atel gnratin-
1    Inciudas 7.5 68< added in 1978.
Dn nroyilogy asaunud in the province of Chíriqui froe 1979.



BAYANO HYDRO PLANT ADDITION
PARTIAL INTEGRATION OF
THE CENTRAL PROVINCES
Co                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cn-
TOTAL INTEGRATION OF                                                       _
THE CENTRAL PROVINCES                                                      c
Co                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~00
M M
LA ESTRELLA-LOS VALLES                                        :m
* '  §.          IHYDRO PLANT ADDITION AND INTEGRATION                        >Cm
OF THE CHIRIGUI SYSTEM                                     rm
00
mcn
eo \ > m D\
>m>
_  _  \  *.  .0> m o
Zme
E                          ~~~~\ '.                                                                 2 m
00
FRTUNA .ORO PLANT ADDITION        m              i
Co                                        \s  .*                                                              0-
|      * .,                      RETIREMENT OF                   -
_    ¡ I* * |      \    X                      «AV. SUR STEAM UNITS               m
_                    N~~~1:                     \       *.
c.
R ET IR EMENT OF SAN
*   FRANCISCO STEAM UNITS
>>    >
ZZ z                                                   LAS MINAS STEAM UNIT
ADDTION
D~~~~~~~~~~
Co                                                   TERIBE HYDRO PLANT
L Añ9'R2eimD
I XaNNV



i5              8
PARTIAL INTEGRATION OF THE
CENTRAL PROVINCES
O>
TOTAL INTEGRATION OF THE
CENTRAL PROVINCES
m-
CD~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
m
LA ESTRELLA-LOS VALLES HYDRO PLANT ADDITION (PARTIALI              W
AND INTEGRATION OF THE CHIRIQUI SYSTEM                             >
>0
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
m0
i                 0  ~~~~~~LA E STRESL LA-LOS VA L LES WIT H FUL L G EN ERATI ON      
a>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                    Cl 
D    m                                                                             m
m M-
FORTUNA HYDRO PLANT ADDITION
a>                                                                                                <
RETIREMENT OF AV. SUR STEAM UNITS                   4
rn
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z
>                        ETRMETOF SAN FRANCISCO STEAM UNITSm
z                                                                                  m
m<    <
m    a>
c m
u                              LAS MINAS STEAM UNIT ADOITION
z
O
oo
w                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERIBE HYDRO FLANT AODITION
8    lu X4NV
I X21NV



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF TRE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Legislation
I. Decree Law No. 31 of September 27, 1958 (as amended)
Decree Law No. 31 lays down the standards for the control of
generation and distribution of electricity over 50 kilowatts and requires
undertakings engaged in the industry to obtain a concession. All future
generation is to be undertaken by IRHE. A concessionaire whose contract
comprises distribution services, will be compelled to supply annually up
to 1.1 times the amount of power supplied the previous year for public
service.
Concessionaires are entitled to a rate of return on net fixed
assete and working capital of three months' gross reveuue, varying with
their capital structure and annual sales, as follows:
Percentage of capital                        Sales in kWh
in bonds, preferred          over         15,000,001 -       under
stocks and loans        25,000,000       25,000,000      15,000,001
15% or less            9-1/2%             10%          10-1/2%
15.1% to 30%           9-1/4%         9-3/4%           10-1/4%
30.1% to 50%               9%         9-1/2%               10%
over 50%               8-3/4%         9-1/4%            9-3/4%
Depreciation iB allowed as an expense but ratea are undetermined
other than "not exceeding as a whole, that indicated by the normal operation
of the industry of electricity for companies similar in size and type of
generation."
The difference between the actual and permitted amounts of return
will be registered in a stabilization account and carried forward. This
procedure effectively guarantees the return through the application of a
"coefficient of adjustment" per kWh. However, in the case of IRHE, if the
year's operatíons result in a credit balance in the stabilization account
it may charge the income tax it would have paid if it were not tax exempt,
as an operating expense, thus increasing the permitted return to about 15%.
II.  Decree Law No. 235 of July 30, 1969 (as amended)
Decree Law No. 235 charges IRHE with planning, expanding, diver-
sifying and rationalizing the generation, transmission and distribution of
electric power throughout the Republic, with the exclusive competence to
construct and operate all new sources of generation, with certain tran-
sitory exclusions. Functions relative to irrigation, flood control and
maintenance of river navigation, which were previously assigned to IRRE
have now been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade and Industry.
IRHE is exempt from all taxation, other than Social Security taxes.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
The law provides for a Board of Dírectors consisting of seven
members appointed by the President of the Republic with the approval of the
National Assembly.  Three memtbers are ex-offcio:  one representative each
from the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy, the Ministry of Agricultural
Development and the Ministry of Comnerce.  These members hold office so long
as they are enyTphvyed or officials of the respective ministries or state
agencies.  The othú-  foulr members are appointed for a period of seven
years and are eligible. for reappointment, the terms are staggered so that
not more than one of these fcur directors retires at the same time. One
represents the Banking Association; another, the Federation of Industrialists;
the third is a Civil Engineer, who must be a member of the Panamanian
Society of Engineers and Architects; and the fourth a representative of
the workers' association (a company union) and designated by its Board.
The Comptroller General of the Republic, or his representative, may attend
Board meetings with the ríght to speak but not to vote.z The Chairman and
Vice-Chairman are elected by the Board. The Board controls the broad policy
of IRHE, and authorizes, inter alia, salary scales, expenditures over B/25,000,
and recommends electricity tariffs. Following the elimination of the National
Commission of Electricity, Gas and Telephones (see III below) electricity
tariffs are approved by the Presídent of the Republic under the advice of
the Cabinet (Law No. 45 of August 5, 1976).
The Director General, who is the legal representative of IRHE and
its Chief Executive Officer, is appointed by the President of the Republic,
subject to the approval of the National Assembly. His term of office is
for a period of six years, with elígibility for reappointment. He may be
dismissed from hís post only by a court judgment because of an offense or
because of failure to comply with certain requirements specified in the
Decree, or he can be dismissed for manifest incapacity by the Executive with
full Cabinet aDDroval.
The Director General is responsible to the Board for the day-to-
day operation of IRHE under the broad policy of the Board. He has the right
to attend Board meetíngs and to propose motions and to speak, but not to vote.
He appoints and dismisses subordinate personnel, submits for approval budgets,
ínvestment plans, tariffs, etc., and authorizes expenditure of amounts of
less than B/25,000. IRHE's annual budgets must be approved by the Minister
of Planning and Economic Policv and are subiect to amendment bv him.
Decree Law No. 235 provides IRHE with the following financial contrí-
butions from the Government:
(1)  "A State subsidy of B/100,000 a month, which shall be
delivered to the Institute by the Office of the Comptroller-
General of the Republic or the Ministry of Finance and the
Treasury, from funds of the National Treasury, within the
first five days of each month. The necessary appropriations
to comnply with this provision shall be included in all national
budgets with effect from the year 1970. This subsidy shall
dimínish by B/120,000 a year with effect from 1980."
(2)  `An additional contribution in cash, contributed by the Nation
for purposes of investment, in accordance with the National



ANNEX T1T
Page 3 of 3
Electrification Plan, of not less than B/20,000,000
or more than B/30,000,000, which shall be delivered
to the Institute within the next seven years, (i.e.,
before July 30, 1976) in such annual contributions
as shall be required for the National Electrification
Plan."
III. Law No. 96 of November 27, 1974
Law No. 96 repeals Cabinet Decree No. 6 of January 16. 1969
which created the National Commission of Electricity, Gas and Telephones,
the regulatory body.
May 1977



ANNEX III
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Electricity Taríffs
Tariff Structure
1.         As of the end of 1976, IRHE's tariff structure had 21 different
categories, most of them of the promotional declining block type, with
demand and energy charges for demands of 6 kW or more, and containing a
fuel clause charge designed to automatically pass on to consumers fuel
price increases. The excessive number of categories is explained by the
growth pattern of IRHE, achieved to a large extent through acquisition of
utilities each of which had its own tariff categories.   As a result
tariffs in the (rural) area served by IRRE were substantíally
higher than those in the Panama-Colon area, previously served by FyL, and
tariffs of the newly acquired plants serving Santiago and Chiriqui provinces
were unrelated to those charzed elsewhere by IRHE.
2.         After consolidating its position as the sole electric utility
in Panama, IRHE undertook a study for unifying its tariff structure under
a more rational scheme. In 1976, IRHE proposed a unified tariff structure
to become effective January 1, 1977, and which was approved by the Government
Decree No. 20 of December 20, 1976. This new set of tariffs consists of
12 categories, 7 of which are to be phased out in three or four steps  1
during 1977. The new categories maintain the declining block structure-/
as well as the other features of the existing tariffs (see 1 above). The
remaining 5 categories are detailed in Attachment 1, and a comparison of
eharges for some typical consumptions under the old and new unified tariff
structure are included in Attachment 2.
3.         The new tariffs are a step forward, bringing tariff categories
down to a manageaDle number, which should simplify tariff administration,
and unifying charges throughout the country (leading to a slight increase
in the share of total revenues derived from consumers in the Panama-Colon
area, to the benefit of those located elsewhere). However, in designing
the new structure no attention was paid to the cost of supplying different
customer categories, in different geographical areas at different voltage
levels, and at different times of the day. The new tariff structure
does not attempt to reflect the macroeconomic policies of the Government,
which might require special incentives to certain geographical areas or
consumers. To remedy this situation IRHE is in the process of contracting
consulting services (SOFRELEC, France) to carry out a marginal cost pricing
study under terms of reference already accepted by the Bank. (Attachment 2).
1/ However, the residential tariff becomes progressive after 400 kWh per
customer.
May 1977



ANNbA _1 11
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
New Electricity Tariff Categories 1'
(in balboas)
1. Residential customers (tariff 11-P)
First     10 kWh          1.10 minimum charge
Next       10 kWh         0.10 per kWh
Next      30 kWh          0.085 per kWh
Next      50 kWh          0.065 per kWh
Next     300 kWh          0.055 per kWh
Next     600 kWh          0.06 per kWh
excess
over  1,000 kWh          0.07 per kWh
reconnection charge: B/3.00
2. General use customers with 5 kW contract demand or less (tariff 21)
First     10 kWh          1.25 minimun charge
Next      90 kWh          0.11 per kWh
Next     125 kWh          0.08 per kWh
Next     775 kWh          0.06 per kWh
excess
over  1,000 kWh          0.055 per kWh
Minimum power factor allowed: 0.80
reconnection charge: B/3.00
3. General use customers with 6 to 29 kW contract demand (tariff 26)
2/
First     15 hours  of billing demand-1    0.11 per kWh
Next      30 hours         "                 0.085 per kWh
Next      60 hours                           0.065 per kWh
excess
over     60 hours                           0.055 per kWh
mínimum charge:  B/1.65 per kWh of billing demand but no less than B/9.90 per month
mínimum power factor allowed: 0.80
reconnection charge: B/3.00
11 All taríffs are for monthly billing.
2/ Billing demand is defined as the maximum demand over the last 12-month
period including the month of billing, or as the contracted demand.



ANNEX III
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
4.  Industrial-Commercial customers with 30 kW contract demand or more (tariff 31)
Demand charge             3.50 per kW of maximum demand?3
First 25 hours uf use of
maximum demand  0.052 per kWh
Excess over 25 hours of
use of maximum
demand           0.042 per kWh
minimum charge is equal to the demand charge but no less than B/105.00 per
month.
Percentage charge for power factors lower than 0.85 = (         0.85    - 1) x 100
power factor
discount for eonsumptions at 13.2 kV or higher levels or to customers who own
transformers: B/0.25 per kW of maximum demand.
reconnectíon charge: B/O.50 per kW last billed.
5. Public lightíng (tariff 65)
Charges per installed lamp with 280 to 372 hours of use per month:
mercury lamps                        400 W      B/11.35 per month
250 W         7.10 per month
175 W        5.40 per month
160 W        5.25 per month
125 W        5.00 per month
fluorescent and incandescent lamps 115 W           4.85 per month
100 W        4.35 per month
92 W        4.00 per month
80 W        3.50 per month
60 W        2.75 per month
40 W        2.05 per month
25 W        2.05 per month
charge per installed pole:  B/2.35 per month.
Fuel clause: all five categories include a fuel clause charge for recovering
fuel price increases; the formula used is the following:
Fuel clause charge = consumed barrels of fuel (current fuel price - 11.0)
kWh billed              per barrel
where consumed barrels of fuel, kWh billed, and current fuel príce per barrel
are computed as the average for the four months preceding the billing month.
3/  Maximum demand ís the maximum demand registered over the last 12 months,
including the month of billing, or it is the contract demand for ACe.non
not measured.



ANNEX III
Attachment 2
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Comparison of Old and New kWh Charges for Some Typical Consumptions
Charges
Old             New i/
(in cents of balboas
per kWh)
Residential - Metropolitan Area  25 kWh/month    10.24              10.12
Residential - Metropolitan Area 100 kWh/month        7.91            7.90
Residential - Metropolitan Area 400 kWh/month        5.95            6.10
Residential - Rural Areas          25 kWh/month      9.80           10.12
Residential - Rural Areas         100 kWh/month      8.20            7.90
Residential - Rural Areas         400 kWh/month      6.20            6.10
Residential - Chiriquí             25 kWh/month      9.00            9.72
Residential - Chiriquí            100 kWh/month      8.80            7.90
Residential - Chiriquí            400 kWh/month      3.88            6.10
Commercial  - Metropolitan Area  25 kWh/month    10.76              11.60
Commercial  - Metropolitan Area 100 kWh/month    10.71              11.15
Commercial  - Metropolitan Area 400 kWh/month        7.62            7.91
Commmercial  - Rural Area          25 kWh/month      9.80           11.60
Commercial  - Rural Area          100 kWh/month      8.20           11.15
Commercial  - Rural Area          400 kWh/month      6.20            7.91
Small Industry                  2,000 kWh/month      6.13            6.55
(8 kW demand; 35% load factor)
Medium Industry                20,000 kWh/month      4.91            4.98
(45 kW demand; 60% load factor)
Large Industry                100,000 kWh/month      4.87            4.90
(195 kW demand; 85% load factor)
As of January 1, 1977; do not include the additional 1% monthly increases
from February 1 through December 1, 1977.
May 1977



ANNEX III
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 6
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Terms of Reference for a Study of Marginal Costs
I. General Objectives
1.        The objectives of the study are to:
(a) obtain a marginal cost structure which reflects as closely as possible
the costs to the economy of meeting the demand for electrícity in
the Republic of Panama during the period 1975-84 under the IRHE
Master Plan; and
(b) derive the tariffs which match the obtained marginal cost
structure, compare them with the new uniform tariffs designed
by IRHE and propose a new structure which also meets IRHE
revenue requirements and income distribution objectives.
II. Outline of the Study
2.        Below are set out the most important points to be examined in the
course of the study; they should be investigated and analyzed as exhaustively
as possible within the limita imposed by availability of information.
3.        Analysis of Cost Structure:   The relevant costs to be
studied are not the aggregate financial costs to IRHE in operating and
expanding its system, but all incremental costs to the economy.
Cost computation should therefore take shadow prices into account wherever
necessary. In order to ascertain the cost associated with the installation
of an additional unit of power and energy, periods of sizeable changes in
system capacity should be distinguished from those of small changes.
A practical definition of marginal costs would imply the use of some average <or
of some other "smoothing" technique) investment during the planning horizon.
4.        The study is expected to include analysis of the marginal costs
of generating, transmittíng and dístributing energy to the different geographical
regions in the Republic, at different times and voltage levels, to different
consumers. This would require due attention to daily and seasonal variations
in forecast system demand from various consumer classes in the various systems.
Much of the information needed for these purposes may have to be especially
collected - by taking substation readings, enquiring about shift-working,
seasonal work-patterns, reviewing operating and billing methods, etc.
The basis for the estimates of marginal costs would be the development plan
laid out in IRHE Master Plan for the period 1975-1984, the proposed optimízed
operating regime and proposals for subsequent expansion.



ANNEX TT-I
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 6
5.        Analysis of marginal generating costs:  These costs should be
analyzed for both hydro and thermal generation according to the forecast
operating regime. Marginal costs need to be ascertained for the largest
generating plants on an individual basis. It is necessary to analyze the impact
of local peak demands which do not coincide with the system peak. For
time periods when demand does not come up against capacity constraints (allowing
for the reserve margins set to maintain security of supply) marginal costs
would be simply marginal running costs grossed up to allow for losses at
the different voltage levels and, where relevant, in different regions.
6.        Analysis of marginal transmission costs:  An examination should be
made of operating costs, including incremental losses at each voltage level
used in transmission and subtransmission lines.
7.        Analysis of marginal distribution costs:  An examination should
be made of operating costs, including incremental losses from distribution
systems. Account should also be taken of the use made of primary and
secondary lines, substations and distribution transformers.
8.        An analysis of incremental expansion costs and losses should also
be made for new línes and associated substations.
9.        When analyzing marginal consumer costs, incremental costs associated
with connection, metering, billing and bill cóllection should be considered.
Incremental costs attributable to low power factors should also be studied.
10.       Analysis of administrative and overhead expenses should include
other IRHE system costs not covered in the foregoing paragraphs, with an
indication of their effect on marginal costs.
11.       It is recommended that consumers be classified using the following
classification:
(a) Residential;
(b)  Private sector (commercial and industrial) without metering;
(c)  Private sector (commercial and industrial) with metering;
(d) Government sector without metering;
(e) Government sector with metering;
(f) Public lighting.
However, the study should recommend the optimum classification of consumers.
12.       Marginal costs should also be scheduled in accordance with a
classification of consumers according to the various service areas existing
in Panama, namely:
(a)  Urban areas;
(b)  Rural areas already connected to the IRHE interconnected system
or to be connected during the period under consideration in the
study (1975-84);
(c)  Rural areas that will not be interconnected during the period
under study.



ANNEX TTT
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 6
13.       Analysis of present tariffs:  An analysis should be made of the
existing uniform tariff structure designed by IRHE. It should be examined
and compared with the marginal cost structure derived from the foregoing
analysis to identify which regions and consumer classes are being given
the wrong price signal.
14.       IRHE metering systems should be examined, as should the costs of
adopting new metering systems or methods, since this would provide some
guidance on what types of tariffs are feasible. Other features to look for in
examining the existing system are whether it is difficult to administer,
conducive to disputes or conducive to fraud, sínce these will provide useful
pointers to improvement in devising the new tariff structure.
15.       Proposal for a new tariff structure:  The study should make
recommendations on whether it is possible to maintain the current uníform
tariff structure with slight modifications in form and/or content, or
whether an entirely new tariff structure is required. The economic and
social effects likely to be produced by the proposed structure should
also be assessed.   The proposal should take such other factors into
account as: IRHE revenue requirements to accomplish its financial
objectives, the need for a rate of return on revalued net assets of not
less than 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978, and 8.75% by 1979 and thereafter,
special incentive plans for certain classes of consumer (e.g. branches of
industry, agriculture and stockraising, particular regions of the country)
in keeping with Panama's domestic economic policies. A number of options
for tariff structures should be submitted, together with a consideration
in each case of implementation costs and likely social and economic impacts.
Particular thought should be given to elasticity of demand among the
different classes of consumer, at different consumption levels and in the
different regions of the country. These options should be structured in
conjunction with IRHE personnel, especially as far as political and
social considerations are concerned.
16.       These new tariff structures should be:
(a) Fair: the tariff should follow as closely as possible the
schedule of marginal costs but recognizing differences ín
consumers' income and redistribution objectives.
(b) Simple: the tariff should be as simple as possible so that
consumers find it easy to understand.
(c) Economical: the investment in metering devices and the general
costs of IRHE metering systems should not be so high as to make
service costs excessive.
17.       Proposals for any new tariff structure should be based on the
following principles:
-    Lower prices for high load factor consumption in the industrial
sector - that is, for efficient energy use and/or demand off the
system peak.
-    Higher prices for sumptuary use of power in the residential sector
or for residential subscribers whose power demand is higher than the
norm.



ANNEX III
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 6
Higher prices for business sector subscribers than for low
consumers in the residential sector.
Moderate transition between tariffs with demand charge and tariffs
without it.
Costs of billing and administering tariffs should be taken into
account when drawing up proposals.
18.       The proposed tariffs should analyze demand from different groups
of subscribers, minimum service costs, reconnection and other costs as
part of the process for determining which tariffs should have demand charge,
minimum charge, reconnection or other charges, and what the amount of such
charges should be.
19.       Tariffs proposed should indicate:
(a) type of subscriber the tariff applies to;
(b) type of supply service;
(c) method of billing and payment;
(d) demand charges, if any;
(e) energy charges;
(f) minimum charges, if any;
(g) charge for variation in fuel costs;
(h) reconnection charge, if any;
(i) charge for low power factor;
(j) any other charge or matter considered an essential part
of the tariff.
20.       Tariff structures proposed should include suggestions for consumer
incentives and disincentives based as closely as possible on marginal costs
as derived.
21.       The proposal should detail methods for the automatic adjustment
of tariffs following cost variations in factors on which the tariff structure
is based - for example, fuel, capacity expansion, manpower costs, etc.
22.       The study should include recommendations for regulating the service -
for example: charges for connection and disconnection, non-payment of bills,
low power factor, load factor and other similar service problems. It should
also indicate what future studies the consultants might require for proper
follow-up of the marginal cost structure.
23.       Transfer of the results of the marginal costs study to the design
of the new tariff structure should be clearly explained. Since tariffs
that endeavor to reflect marginal costs very closely can prove complex and
impractical, it is recommended that efforts be made to come up with a simple,
uniform tariff structure that can be applied on a nation-wide basis, but
trying to affect the marginal cost structure as little as possible.



ANNEX III
Attachment 3
Page 5 of 6
24.       Implementation of New Tariffs: The study should include a plan
for introducing the new tariff structure in stages if so required. The
plan should also include provision for publicity, meter acquisitíon and
installation, billing and all staff training necessary to ensure smooth
transition to the new system.
III. Carrying out the Study
25.       Before drawing up its proposal, the firm concerned should visit the
study site to familiarize itself with the existing situation and operating
methods so that its estimates of periods and deadlines for collecting data
and carrying out the various phases of the study are as realistic as possible.
26.       The proposal submitted should include a detailed program of the
work required for execution of the study. It should also give suggestions
or observations on additional work not described in these Terms of Reference
but which the proposing firm considers necessary.
27.       The proposing firm shall submit a clear and detailed description
of the methodology and procedures (Work Plan) it would use, and shall state
what periods of time are needed for and what costs are associated with,
the execution of work described in the Terms of Reference and any other
additional work considered necessary but not provided for there.
28.       In carrying out this study, the consulting firm shall at all times,
work in conjunction with IRHE personnel. During the period when the study
is in progress, IRHE will make available necessary professional, middle-level
and auxiliary staff as arranged with the consultants. The consulting firm shall
work closely with local personnel so that the latter have the opportunity
to widen their experience and knowledge of marginal cost theory and its
application to electric energy tariffs. It shall also include a trainíng
program for participating IRHE personnel, which should be submitted as part
of the proposal.
29.       The proposing firm shall submit a preliminary report for each
phase of the work outlíning the plan of action to be followed, and thereafter
shall provide periodic progress reports covering the main activities undertaken,
criteria, methods and procedures used, costs and whatever observations or
suggestions appear relevant.
30.       A final report shall be submitted embodying all results obtained,
describing methodology followed and providing pertinent explanations.
31.       The consulting firm shall furnish the IRHE project director with
its findings and observations on completion of each phase of the study. All
documentation involved shall be presented in both Spanish and Englísh,
ownership thereof being vested in IRHE, which reserves the right to make as
many copies as may be necessary.
32.       The consulting firm shall provide IRHE with all necessary advice and
assistance in solving problems that arise subsequent to and as a consequence
of the marginal costs study and implementation of the tariff structure derived.



ANNEXIII
Atracnmen 3
Page 6 of 6
33.       The consulting firm, in providing the services referred to herein,
shall observe the laws and regulations in force in Panama.
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
IRHE'S ORGANIZATtON CHART
PANAMA
|   BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
I        I     | ASS~~~I TNT TO.THE|
LT      AmO ADVISO
GENERAL
SUBDIRECTOR
DIRC  DIREC
|   FINNCIA    4  j ACCONTIN    |  |STAF RELTION  p q3    T         i   WST PNAUAl  l   ROJETS I          FND   PROCRAMMING |                             T NAL 
NS                                                               ^NO                                      PI.^NNI»0~~~~~~~~~~~~FO*TS ~ OC
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~RJ DAAPOESIGONTROLETFjPESNE  DUN||ITECNETDF    OO     lSSE< 
AD INtOTLATtVED    |AN
DEPARTM.T  STEI S
AUDIT FROM THE                                                                                                                                     |    AAO CTORUI 
CONROLE GENERALMS OFFICE                                                                                                                                PRDECT      r 1       E
| ELECTRIC    F



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
APPPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Economic Evaluation of the Project
1.        The internal rate of return was estimated for an overall expansion
program including (i) Fortuna hydroelectric project, as defined in Chapter 4 and
Annex VI; and (ii) the subtransmission and distribution expansion required by the
incremental peak demand in the interconnected system. No transmission
additíons were considered, other than those included in the project, as
there will be no need for further transmission expansions until after 1987
when new generation would be commissioned.
2.         The investment costs for Fortuna include:  (i) the base
cost and physical contingencies (Annex VI), and (ii) the investments made
during 1976.   The operation and maintenance costs for  the  Fortuna
project are based on the projections prepared by Stone & Webster.
3.         The subtransmission and distribution capacity expansion was
estimated for annual additions in the period 1982-86 required by a
255 MW increase in the system maximum demand.  The investment costs were
calculated assuming 1.45 KVA in transmission and distribution per KW of
peak demand and a unit cost of US$280 per KVA. Operation costs for sub-
transmission and distribution were estimated as 6% of the cumulative
annual investment costs for thís item.
4.         The investment costs for the subtransmission and distribution
expansion based on these assumptions were:
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Increase in system peak demand (MW) 42.0   44.3   49.8   56.0   62.9
Subtransmission & Distribution
additions (MVA)                      60.9   64.2   72.2   81.2   91.2
Investment costs (US$million)         17.0   18.0   20.2   22.7   25.5
5.         The internal rate of return (Attachment 1) was calculated
equalizing the present worth of the investment and operation costs of
the equivalent overall program and the benefits it would produce. The
benefits were estimated as (1) the revenues for the incremental sales
(defined as the sales that would be generated by the Fortuna plant
assuming that IRHE utilizes the full generating capacity existing prior
to  Fortuna)   evaluated at USI 5.5 per KWh, the average selling price to
the ultimate consumer in 1976; and (ii) the decrease in the operation costs due
to the substitution of thermal generation in old plants (defined as the average
generation of the  Fortuna  plant minus the incremental generation indicated
in (5(i)), evaluated at USI 2.5 per KWh, the estimated average fuel
cost for the thermal generation substituted.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
6.         The internal rate of return for this program ls 17.7%.  A
sensitívity analysis was carried out to evaluate the impact of (i) a
15% increase in the investment and operation costs and (ii) a decrease
in the benefits due to a 15% reduction in the average growth rate of the
energy sales. For condition (1) the internal rate of return la 15.7%
and for conditions (i) and (il) símultaneously considered, the internal
rate of return is 14.3%. These returas are higher than the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Panama, inditating that taríffs are, on
average, high enough to cover the costa of the additional capacity.
This will ensure that excessíve growth in demand, leading to the need
for unjustified expansion of capacity, vill be avoided.
May 1977



DISTITUTO DE BECURSOS RIDR&ULICQS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRNE)
PANAMA
Economic Evaluation
Internal Rate of Return 4!
2]g                        .                3
Baste Case                                Alternative I                              Alternative II
(US$ million)                               (uS$ million)                              (Us$ million)
Invetrent,                                  Investment,                                 Investment,
Operation &                                 Operation &                                 Operation &
Maintenance                                 Maintenance                                 Maintenance
Costa           Benefita   Net Benefits   Costa             Benefits   Net Benefits   Costo              Benefits    Net Benefita
Plant Life    Yeer            __                                                                      _ ____
1976              4.1                          (4.1)          4.7                          (4.7)           4.7                         (4.7)
1977              7.7                          (7.7)          8.9                          (8.9)           8.9                         (8.9)
1978             27.6                         (27.6)         31.7                         (31.7)          31.7                        (31.7)
1979             20.5                         (20.5)         23.6                         (23.6)          23.6                        (23.6)
19g0             26.3                         (26.3)         30.2                         (30.2)          30.2                        (30.2)
1981             32.2                         (32.2)         37.0                         (37.0)          37.2                        (37.0)
1982             20.3                         (20.3)         23.3                         (23.3)          23.3                         (23.3)
1        1983              32.8            33.0          0.2           37.7             33.0        (4.7)          37.7             17.0        (20.7)
2        1984              20.2            33.0         12.8           23.2             33.0          9.8          23.2             33.0          9.8
3        1985              23.5            41.2         17.7           27.0             41.2        14.2           27.0             33.0          6.o
4        1986              27.3            48.0         20.7           31.4             48.o         16.6          31.4             39.0          7.6
5        1987              31.5            55.5         24.0           36.2             55.5        19.3           36.2             47.0 -       10.8
6        1988               6.8            63.6         56.8            7.8             63.6         55.8            7.8            56.0         48.2
7        1989               6.8            66.o         59.2            7.8             66.o         58.2            7.8             62.0        54.2
8        1990               6.8            66.o         59.2            7.8             66.o         58.2            7.8             66.o        58.2
25        2007               6.8            66.o         59.2            7.8             66.o         58.2            7.8             66.o         58.2
26        2008              18.1            66.o         47.9           20.8             66.o         45.2           20.8-            66.o         45.2
27        2009              20.2            66.o         45.8           23.2             66.o         42.8           23.2             66.0         42.8
28        2010              23.5            66.o         42.5           27.0             66.o         39.0           27.0             66.o         39.0
29        2011              27.3            66.o         38.7           31.4             66.o         34.6           31.4             66.0         34.6
30        2012              31.5            66.o         34.5           36.2             66.o         29.8           36.2             66.0         29.8
31        2013               6.8            66.0         59.2            7.8             66.o         58.2            7.8             66.0         58.2
50        2032               6.8            66.o         59.2            7.8             66.o         58.2            7.8             66.o         58.2
Internal Rate of Return (%)       -                -         17.7             -                           15.7             -                           14.3
e ProJect costo nd load foreeaat as aasmued for the proJect.
proJect ce ta 1% higher. 
Prject ctost 19< higher; load annul growth rate 15< lover.
Include (a) co«t of the proJect and part of the transuiasion and distribution expansion coet; (b) operation and maintenance costs for the proJeet
and a part of the tranauiasion *nd distribution system.
5/ C1culated se~arately for the inersuental sales and for the therral load substitution: (a) 5US per kh average price asmumed for in<re2ent l *l*S;
(b) 2.5U8 per kWh averuge fUel coot asaied for therml substitution.
6/ PrIcs 11 m of Deder 31, 1976.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF Th-E FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS H_DRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Project Descríption and Cost
1.    Project Description
Part A   -  Fortuna Hydroelectric Power Station
The Fortuna hydroelectric project is located approximately
35 km northeast of the city of David in the province of Chiriquí. It
is a high head development with a storage resevoir and a drainage surface
area of approximatelX 155 km2.  The average discharge at the dam site ís
estimated to be 25 m .   The project has been proposed as a two-stage
development representing the optímum solution for the project. The stage I
is expected to generate 1320 GWh during average-hydrology years (50% pro-
bability) and 1155 GWh during dry years (5% probability). The stage II,
which would complete the project, would increase the generation to 1455 GWh
during average-hydrology years. The least cost expansion program proposed
by C.T. Main recommends the commissioning of stage I as soon as possible
by mid-1983. Stage II, is recommended as an expansíon to be commissioned
by 1990.  The characteristics of the generating equípment, power transformers
and power cables would be specified for the final requirements of the project
(Stage II development).
The dam selected for stage 1 is a 60 m high  rockfill dam
embankment (crest elevation 1018.5 m) with a concrete slab on the upstream
surface and a temporary ungated spillway (crest elevation 1010 m), capable
of discharging 2600 m3.   In stage II the ungated spíllway crest elevation
would be raised to 1050 m and the dam to 1056 m.  The stage I development
would comprise the following items:
(a) diversion works required for the construction of the dam
consísting of a 20 m  high  upstream rockfill cofferdam
and a 9 m diameter, 280 m long diversion tunnel;
(b)  rockfill dam (450,000 m3 with upstream concrete facing) to
impound 13 million m3 (8 mnillion líve storage) wíth ungated
spillway;
(c)  power tunnel of approximately 6000 m long and 5.0 m diameter
unlined horse shoe cross section. It has been estimated
that only 10% of the tunnel would require concrete lining;
surge shaft located at the end of the pressure tunnel and
1400 m long penstock consisting of an excavated concrete lined
shaft followed by a relatívely horizontal section, also con-
crete lined, and a second inclined shaft, partially steel
lined, which makes the connection with the power house manifold;
(d) the underground rock-excavated power house, located approximately
1400 m downstream from the end of the pressure tunnel; the power



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
house main equipment consists of three spherical valves, three
vertical Pelton turbines directly coupled to synchronous
generators, and three three-phase trnasformers, which would be
connected to the main switchyard through 230 kV oil-filled
power cables;
(e)  the tailrace tunnel 8300 m long and 5.5 m equivalent diameter-
discharging the water into Quebrada de Buenos Aires.
Part B  -  Fortuna Transmission System
2.         The study of the transmission system carried out by C.T. Maín
recomnended the 750 MCM ACAR conductor for the line and increasing the
transformer capacity at the Panama substation by 175 MVA 230/115 kV trans-
former and associated switchgear. The transmission system would comprise:
(a)  The  Fortuna  230 kV switchyard;
(b)  Double-circuit kV 41 km long transrission líne from  Fortuna
to the future David substation;
(c) Panama substation enlargement (175 MVA 230/115 kV transformer
and switchgear).
Part C - Organization Improvement Program and Training
3.         This part of the project would comprise an in-depth study of
IRHE's organization, giving priority to those areas which need
urgent improvement and including a comprehensíve training program for
IRHE's staff. The preliminary Terms of Reference for this part of the
project have been proposed in the Diagnostic Study of IREHE's organization
carried out by Stone & Webster in February of 1977.
Project Costs
4.         C.T. Main proposed the base cost estimates for Parts A and B
using December 1975 prices. These costs were updated to December 1976
levels using escalation factors of 14% for the foreign currency costs
and 10% for the local currency costs. These figures were proposed by
IRHE and the Govermment and are reasonable. The cost estinmate for Part C
(Organization Improvement and Training Program) are based on the Diagnostic
Study of IRHE carried out by Stone & Webster.
5.         Physical contingency factor used by C.T. Main and IRRE are
detailed below and were found reasonable.
Physical Contingency   %
Hydroelectric          Transmissíon
Item                                   Plant                   System
Underground civil works                  30
Above-ground cívil works ¡
erection and installation              15                      10
Equipment                                 15                     15



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
6.         The expected price increases during the project execution period
are based on annual average inflation of 12% for civil works, 10% for
equipment and materials and 6% for engineering and administration. These
figures were proposed by IRHE and the Government and are reasonable in view of
the experience with similar projects in Panama and current expectations.
7.         Attachment 2 shows the detailed cost figures for parts A, B, and
C of the project as well as the proposed expenditures and financing. Attachment
3 shows the detailed foreign cost estimate for the engineering services. which are
based on an agreed extension to a previous contract between IRHE and C.T. Main.
The cost figures for the Board of Consultants were estimated by IRHE and
IDB and are reasonable. Attachment 4 shows the detailed foreign cost estimate
for the organization and training component of the project, as agreed with
IRHE on the basis of the diagnostic study and terms of reference prepared by
Stone & Webster. Attachment 1 shows a summary of the project costs and
fiúancing.
May   1977



A~m vi
INSTITUTO DE UCIUaSOS BIDRAULICOS Y ELECTI.UFICACION (IRE)
Suumary of Froject Coat and F~ancn8cL 
aillion8 ot o/ b- UO5  I
Project Co.t2i                   Prol ect Finan¿lac
PART A                                                                                                   IRME and
Fortuna Eydroelectric Power Plant             Local   Poe~        Total   IBRD   IDB   Suppliers   Governaent
1. Civil Works
1.1  River divereion dan & *píllway             3.52   11.22       14.74  11.22    -                       3.52
1.2  U)nderground vorks                        18.16   38.02       56.1       - -3802         -          l.16
1.3  Other civil vorks                          8.63.   4.21       12.84      -     -         _           12.84
2. Power Bouse Equipment
2.1  W&Cn Equipsent                             1.46   13.35       14.81      -     -      13.33           1.48
2.2  Electronechanical & Ancillary              0.65    4.31        4.96   4.31     -         -           0.65
3. Engíneering & Adíiniatration
3.1  River diversion dam & spillway             1.30    1.37        2.67   1.37    -          -            1.30
3.1 2 ngíupexinz fot mUdergtomnd Vwrks          5.00    6.06       11.06      _   6.06        -            5.00
3.3  Project Administrátion                     1.33       -        1.33      -     -         _            1.33
Total Base Cost                          40.05   78.54    118.59  16.90 44.08    13.33              44.28
Physical Contingencies                     7.14   14.68      21.82   2.11 10.60        1.34          7.77
Price Contingencies                      19.82   46.02       65.84  12.24 26.41        6.96         20.23
Total Part A                             67-0l  139.24    206.25  31.25 81.09    21.63              72.26
PART B
Fortuna Transmission system
1.     Fortuna-David-Line
1.1  Civil workn, right-of-way                  0.55    0.09        0.64   0.09    -          -           0.55
1.2  Equipment & uateriala                      0.84    1.66        2.50   1.66    -          -           0.84
2.     YQrtuna Switchyard
2.1  Civil worka                                0 17       -        0.17     -      -         -           0.17
2.2  Equlpment & materíais                      0.38    1.63        2.01   1.63    -          -           0.38
3. Pana~a substation enlargement
3.1  Civil vorks                                0.01       -        0.01      -     -         -           0.01
3.2  Equipment & materíals                      0.12    1.20        1.32   1.20    -          -           0.12
4.  Engineering & Administration                  0.47    0.33        0.80   0.33    -          -           0.47
Total Bsna Cost                               2.54    4.91        7.45   4.91    -          -           2.54
Physícl Contingencies                        0.25    0.55        0.80   0.55    -          -           0.25
Price Concingencíes                           1.83    3.47       5.30   3.47    -           -           1.83
Total Part B                                  4.62    8.93      13.55   8.93    -           -           4.62
PAlT e
Ortanization Isprovemant & Tr4ini%m         0.55    1.52        2.07   1.52    -          -           0.55
Price Conting-ncy                           0.10    0.28        0.38   0.28    -           -           0.10
Total Part C                                0.65    1.80        2.45   1.80    -           -           065
Total Project Cost                         72.28  149.97    222.25  41.98 81.09    21.63              77.55
Interest during construction                  -      31.35      31 .35    -   17.00       _           14.35
Total fian~cil requirementa                 72.28  181.32      253.60 41.98 98.09    21.63            91.90
1/ B/. 1-US$1.
2/ Based on prices es of Deceuber 1976.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Project Costs and Financing
(millions of B/ & US$ >
PROJECT COSTRY                                         PROJECT FINANCING
PART A                                                                                                                                                 IRHZ and
Fortuna Hydroelectric Power Plant             ¿9'7              122v 19 s              .2.1    2Sa 1 Qi I IL                                   a sty  9l
1. Civil Works
1.1 River Diversion Dam & Spillway                L        -       _       _      1.10   1.61    o.47    0.34    3.52      -                             3.52
F       -       -       -      3.37    5.26    1.46    1.13   11.22    11.22                           -
T       -       -       -      4.47    6.87    1.93    1.47   14.74    11.22             -            3.52
1.2 Underground works                             L        -      4.62    2.84    3.66    3.91    1.31    1.82   18.16     -       -                    18.16
F       -      9.74    5.89    7.65    8.18    2.76    3.80   38.02     -   38.02        -             -
T       -    14.36    8.73   11.31   12.09   4.07    5.62   56.18       -   38.02        -           18.16
1.3 land rights, compensations and
other civil work.                             L      4.o4    3.11    1.22    0.04    0.03    o.og   0.10    8.63       -      -        -            8.63
F      2.37    1.34    o.45   0.01   0.01   0.02    0.01   4.21         -       -        -            4.21
T      6.41    4.45    1.67   0.05   o.o4    0.11    o.11  12.84        -       -        -           12.84
2. Equipment
2.1 Main generating equipment                     L        -       -       -      0.13    0.47    o.60    0.26    31.46    -               1.31          0.15
F       -      1.93    3.92    2.17    1.49    1.43    2.41    13.35     -      -      12.02          1.33
T       -      1.93    3.92    2.30    1.96    2.03    2.67    14.81     -      -      13.33          1.48
2.2  Zlectromechanical Ancillary equipment         L       -       -       -      o.o4    0.11   0.26    0.24      o.65     -      -        -            0.65
F       -       -      0.22    0.56    1.03    1.37    1.13     4.31   4.31          -                 -
T       -       -      0.22    o.6o    1.14    1.63    1.37     4.96    4.31         -                0.65
E" En;ineering b Administration
3.1 Enginerfrg for River Diversion DOa &
Spillwy                                         L       _       _      0.13    0.24   o.44    0.36   0.13       1.30     -       -        -            1.30
F       -              o 0.14    o.o8    0.61    o.40   0.14    1.37    1.37     -        -
3.2  Eginering  or UdergsT  -  -  0.27    0.32    1.00.27       2.67    1.37     -                    1.30
3.2 Engineering for Underground works                L       o.48    0.72    0.73   0. 6    .0    0.80    0.50       5.00     -       -        -            5.00
F      o.54    0.91    0.91    0.69    1.39    1.01    0.61     6.06     -    6.06        -            -
T      1.02    1.63    1.64    1.45   2.40    1.81    1.1u    u.0o6      -    6.06        -           5.00
3.3  ProJect Administration                          L      0.11   0.15   70.18   0.27    0.27    0.22    0.13       1.33     -       -                    1.33
F       -       -       -       -       _       _       _        _       _
T      0.11    0.15    0.18    0.27    0.27    0.22    0.13     1.33     -       -        -            1.33
Total Base Cost                                 L       4.63    8.60    5.10    6.39    7.75    4.o6    3.52    40.05    -       -       1.31         38.74
F      2.91   13.92   11.53   14.93   17.67    8.35    9.23    78.54   16.90  44.o8     12.02          5.54
T      7.54   22.52   16.63   21.32   25.42   12.41  12.75   118.59   16.90  44.o8      13.33         44.28
Physical Contingencies                          L       o.60    1.71    1.02    1.24    1.40    0.54    0.63    7.14     -       -       0.14          7.00
F      0.36    3.00    2.22    2.96    3.29    1.27    1.58    14.68    2.11  10.60      1.20          0.77
T      0.96    4.71    3.24    4.20    4.69    1.81    2.21    21.82    2.11  10.60      1.34          7.77
Frice Contingencies                             L       0.30    1.85    1.84    3.34    5.41    3.16   3.92    19.82     -       -       0.93         18.
F      0.18    3.01    4.08   8.13   13.03    7.18  10.41    46.o2   12.24  26.41        6.03          1.
T      o.48    4.86    5.92   11.47  18.44   10.34  14.33    65.84   12.24  26.41        6.96         20.23
Total Part A                                    L       5.53   12.16    7.96   10.97   14.56    7.76   8.07    67.01     -       -       2.38         64.63
F      3.45   19.93   17.83   26.02   33.99   16.80   21.22   139.24   31.25  81.09     19.25          7.65
T      8.98   32.09   25.79   36.99   48.55   24.56  29.29   206.25   31.25  81.09      21.63         72.28
j  B/. 1=US$1
Based on prices as of December 1976.
/ L: Local currency; F: Foreign currency; T: Total currency.



INSITITUTO DE BECURSOS IHIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRBE)
PAN{AMA
Project Costs and FinanciL/
(millions of B/ and UsW$)
PROJECT COSTII                                                PROJECT FIN_   _ _CI_   _
1977    1978   1979      10       1981    1982    1983    Total    IRD    IDB   Suppliers          GoverR ant
PART B
Fortuna Transmission Systemr
1.     Fortuna - David line
1.1  Civil works                                       L         -       -        -       -       o.16    0.39--            0.55      -       -         -             0.55
F        -        -       -        -      0.03    0,0       -       0.09    0.09    -           -              -
T        -        -       -        -      0.19    0.45       -       0.64    0.09    -           -             0.55
1.2  Equipment                                         L         -       -        -       -       0.25    0.59      -       0.84      -       -         -             o.84
F        -        -       -        -      o.67    0.99       -       1.66    1.66    -           -              _
T        -        -       -        -      0.92    1.58       -       2.50    1.66    -           _             o.84
2.     Fortuna Switchyard
2.1  Civil works, land rights                          L         -       -        -       -        -      0.17      -        0.17     -      --          -             0.17
F        -        -       _        _       -        _        _        _        _      _          _              _
T        -        _       _        _       _       0.17      -       0.17      -       -         -             0.17
2,2  Equipment, materials & installation               L         -       -        -        -      0.07    0.31      -        0.38            _          _             0.38
F        -                                0 _  _  0.38    1.25  -    1.63    1.63    -           _              _
T        -        -       _        _      o.45    1.56       -       2.01    1.63                              0 _  0.38
3. Panama Substation Enlargment
3.1  Civil works                                       L         -       -        -       -        -       0.01     -        0.01      -      -          -             0.01
F        -        -       -        _       _        -        -        _        _      _          _               _
T        -        -       -        -        -      0.01      -       0.01      -       -         -             0.01
3.2  Equipment and materials                           L         -       -        -       -       0.01    0.11      -        0.12         -                            0.12
F       --        -       -        -      0.12    1.08       -       1.20    1.20    -           -               -
T        -        _       _        _       0.13    1.19      -        1.32    1.20    -           _             0.12
4.     Engineering and Administratíon                     L        -        -       -        -      0.05    0.42       -       0.47      -       -         -             0.47
F        -        -       _        _      0.15    0.18       -       0.33    0.33    -            -              -
T        -        _       _        _      0.20    o.60       -       0.80    0.33    -            -             o.47
Total Base Cost                                   L         -       -        -        -      0.54    2.00      -        2.54      _                 -             2.54
F        -        _       _        _      1.35    3.56    __         4.91    4.91    -            -
T        -        _       _        _      1.89    5.56       -        7.45    4.91    -           _             2.54
Physical Contingencies                            L         -       -        _       _       o.o6    0.19      _        0.25      -      -          -             0.25
F        -        -       _        _      0.15    0.40       -        0.55    0.55   --           -
T        -        -       _        _       0.21    0.59      _        0.80    0.55    -           -             0.25
Price Contingencies                               L        --       -        -       -       0.34    1.49      _        1.83      -                                1.83
F        -        -       -        -       0.77    2.70      -        3.47    3.47    -                          -
T        -                _        _       1.11    4.19      -        5.30    3.47          -                   1.83
Total Part B                                      L         -        -       -        -      0,94    3.68       -       4.62    -                                  4.62 -
F        -        -       _        _       2.27    6.66      -        8.93   8.93      -          --
T        -        -       _        _       3.21   10.34      -       13.55   8.93      -          _             4.62
2   B/. 1=US$1
Based on prices as-of December 1976.
L: Local currency; F: Foreign currency; T: Total currency.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS IIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Project Costs and Financ
(millions_of tandUSg _
EROJECT COST,?/                                        PROJECT FINANCING
PART C                                                                                                                                         IME and
- gijatroj                           Curreny       1977    1978    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total   IBRD   IDB    Suppliers   Governzent
Training
IFtE s Organizatien Improvement
Pro~r.  & Training                       L         0.05    0.09    0.17    0.214     -      -        -     0.55      -      -        -           0.55
F        0.19   0.27   o.43    o.63        -                     1.52    1.52     -        -            -
T        0.24    0.36    o.6o    0.87      -                     2.07    1.52     -        -           0.55
Price Contingency                        L          -      0.01    0.03    o.o6      -              -      0.10      -      -        -           0.10
F        0.01    0.03    0.07    0.17              _             0.28    0.28     -        -
T        0.01   o.o4    0.10    0.23                              0 0.38    0.28  -        -           0.10
Total Part C                             L         0.05    0.10    0.20    0.30     -      -        -      0.65       -     -        -           0.65
F        0.20    0.30    0.50    0.80    -        -        -     1.80    1.80     -        -
T        0.25    0.40    0.70    l.l0     -                      2.45    1.80      -       -           0.65
Total Project Cost                        L        5.58   12.26    8.16   11.27   15.50   11.44    8.07   72.28       -      -     2.38         6g.g,
F        3.65   20.23   18.33   26.82   36.26   23.46   21.22   149.97   41.98   81.09   19.25         7
T         9.23  32.49  26.49   38.09   51.76  3k.9o   29.29   222.25   41.98  81.09   21.63            77.55
B/. 1--US$1.
/ Based on prices as of Deceiber 1976.
/ L: Local currency3, F: Foreign currency, T:Total currency.
»1



IlSTITUTO DE RECURSOS lIDBAULICOS Y EIECTR7FIC&CION (IRHE)
PANAN
Engineering Consulting Services - Base Cost  stiímate 11
River Diversion, Dam & Spillway         Underground Works & Other Civil Works             Transmission System                   Total
Average        Tt                         Averageg/                                 Average ¡
Man-months    Unít Cost        Total      Man-sonths     Unit Cost        Total    Ma__months      Unit Cost        Total
US         jUS$1000)                      UST-       (US1000>                       US         JUS$1000)  (US$1000)  (Man-months)
A. Salaries and Overhead
1. Construction Drawiings
1.1  in Pansma                       60           7360          44i.6         211            7217         1522.8         14           6800           95.2       2059.6          285
1.2  at Consultants headquarters     11           6329           69.6          36            6144          221.2          4            5500          22.0 .      312.8           51
Subtotal                      71              -          511.2          247              -         1744.0         18               -         117.2       2372.4          336
2. Constrction SGpervision
2.1  in pana~a                       91           6563          597.2          366           6554         2398.8         25            6800         170.0       3166.0          482
2.2  at Consultants headquarters      6           5308           31.8           66           5561          367.0          _-                            -        398.8           72
Subtotal                      97              -          629.o          432              -         2765.8         25               -         170.0       3564.8          554
3. Board of Consultants               -              -              -           17          15271          259.6         --               -             -        259.6           17
Total                        168              -          1140.2         696              -         4509.8          43              -         287.2        6196.4         907
B. OWer expenses                   No. of Round  Unit Cost        Total      No. of Round   Unit Cost        Total   No. of Round  Unit Cost          Total        Total
4. Travel                           Trips                                      Trips                                   Trips                                    (Us*1000)
4.1 Construction Dravinge
Par - USA - Pnam                21            670            14.1          64            670           42.9           6            670            4.0
Within the USA                   7            260             1.8          23            260            6.o           -              -              -
Relocatlon benefits            -           5100            10.2           -           5100            30.6          -
4.2  Construction Supervision
Pna-USA-Pan- m                  20            670            13.4          74            670            49.6          6              -            4.o
USA to suppliers countries       2           2100             4.2          18           2100            37.8          -               -             -
Relocation benefíte            -           3100             3.1           --          3100            43.4          -              -              -
4.3 Board of Consultante
Zumope-Pansna-Europe                             -              -          72           1030            74.2          -               -             -
Allovances                       -               -              -           -            103            51.9          -               -             -
Other expenses                   --              -              -           -              -            14.3          -
Total travel expenses        -              -            46.8           -                          350.7          -                           8.o        405.5
5. Reimbursable expenses
Su}sistence al1Ivwance            -              -2 1                        _4
Other expensea  /--B                                                         _              --                                                    19.b
Subtotal                      _              _          177.7           --                         939.9           -              -           33.8       1151.4
Total                        -              -          1364.7                                        _ -  606o,o -               -          329.0       7753.7
Price contingeney not included. See Annex VII for description of consultants' functione.
IMNdudeé  salaries and all overheads exeept for travel, relloaatois  ind item billed under categror 5. Pigures based qn contrant already negotlated by IR13
lwth C.T. Main, except for estimates for Boa.d of Consultante (yhich are based on siMilar projects in otheir eeuntrie5>.
Includes instruction  ~*uala, reporta, tranelation, computer, telephone calle, telex and other services.



ANNEX VI
Attachment 4
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Consulting Services for Organization and Training, Base Cost Estimate -
Average
Man-Months        Unit Cost2/           Total
us$             Us$ (1000)
A.  Salaries and Overhead
1.  Data Processing                          70                6142               429.9
2.  Development                              30                6481               194.4
3.  Engineering and Construction             21                6700               140.7
4.  Finances                                 14                6546                91.6
5.  Operations                               38                7000               266.0
6.  Personnel                                20                6677               133.5
7.  Training                                 12                6500                78.0
Subtotal               205                                  1334.1
Round Trips
B.  Other Expenses
8.  Travel                                   50                 670                33.5
9.  Reimbursable Expenses 3/                                                       21.4
10.  Other Expenses 4/                                                              45.0
Subtotal                                                      99.9
Total                                                       1434.0 5/
Contingencies not included.
2/ Includes salaries and all overheads.
Includes telex and other comnutnication.
Includes translation services, manuals, reports and computer services.
The total foreign base cost of US$1.52 million shown in Attachment 1 of this
annex includes    $86,o0o     for overseas fellowships and equipment.



ANNEX VII
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Project Implementation
Project Organization
1.        IRHE has established a special unit to carry out the project
wíthin the Construction Department of its Engineeríng Directorate (see
Annex IV). The organization chart for this unit is shown in Attachment 1.
IRHE has appointed highly qualified staff at all the levels.
2.        IRHE has engaged C.T. Main, the consultants which prepared the
project's feasibiíity study, to assist with detailed engineering, procurement
and project supervision. The consultants will also assist IRHE in preparing
the progress reports requested by the financing agencies. The contract
stresses high coordínation between IRHE and C.T. Main without limiting the
consultants' independent judgement. The cost estimate of the C.T. Main
consulting services is based on a preliminary contract which was negotiated
between IRHE and C.T. Maín in mid 1976. The figures as of December 1976
were obtained escalating the estimated contract cost by 3%, as proposed by
IRHE (see Annex VI, Attachment 3). IRHE and C.T. Main have confirmed these figures.
3.        IRHE has engaged the services of a Board of Consultants-/ which would
review periodically the progress of the underground works and assist IRHE
and its consultants to solve any specific problems that could arise during the
project execution (see Annex V, Attachment 3).
Project Schedule
4.        Because of the complexity of the hydroelectric plant (Part A of the
project) IRHE and C.T. Main carried out an analysis of its construction schedule
by the Critical Path Method (CPM) with a view of establishíng the critical
activities of the project. A summary of the líst of activities and CPM chart
are shown in Attachments 2 and 3. According to the CPM, the critical actívíites
are the construction of the powerhouse and erection of the main equipment.
Subcritical activíties with small completion time slacks are the construction
of the power and taílrace tunnels.
5.        The bar chart construction schedules for Parts A, B and C of the
project are shown in Attachments 3 and 4. Bar chart for Part A contaíns the
same activities indícated in the CPM chart; the duration of the activities
correspond to the earlíest completion date.
6.        Attachment 4 lists the key dates for project implementation.
11 The Board of Consultants consists of the following ínternationally recognized
experts: Drs. Don U. Deere, Jack W. Hilf and J. Barry Cook.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
FORTUNA PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PANAMA
Construction
Manager
Fortuna
Project Manager
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Z
Board Of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Bn-165
| Construction          Des                    lgt               Adiitrtv
L Supervision  {         ein     sL          Fnne     jL         Office
-|   7Tunn-l1 -           ecanca  |-   Bucdgeting                  Tasotin|
Worid Ba nk- 16950



ANNAb v " 
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Fortuna Hvdroelectric Project
Critical Path Method (CPM)
List of Activities for Part A of Project
Month of
Completion of
Duration       Activity±l
Activity    Notes    Description                                                 months      earliest    latest
1         0-1      Bids evaluation & contract award (underground works)          5           0            0
2         1-4      Mobilization of excavation equipment (tailrace tunnel)   4                4            5
3         1-8      Mobilization of excavation equipment (pressure tunnel)   4                4           10
4         1-2      Mobilization & installation of construction auxiliaries  1                1           12
*  5          1-5     Mobilization of excavation equipment (access tunnel)          4           4            4
6         1-3      Mobilization of construction equipment                        1           1           12
7         2-6      Installation of general services                              5           6           17
8         3-7      Installation of construction camps                            5           6           17
*  9         5-10    Construction of access tunnel                                 13          17           17
10         10-13   Excavation of construction tunnel                              2          19           27
* 11          10-11   Excavation of exploratory gallery                             1          18           18
12         11-14   Geological tests                                               1          19           30
* 13         11-16   Power-house excavation                                        12          30           30
* 14          16-19   First-stage concrete for the first unit                       5          35           35
15         19-21   First-stage concrete for the second unit                       3          38           55
16         21-24   First-stage concrete for the third unit                        3          41           58
17         19-39   Excavation & erection of manifold                             18          53           55
* 18         19-45   Erection of the generating units. Completion of the          23          58           58
first unit
19         16-31   Power-house concreting                                        16          46           58
20         16-28   Excavation & concreting of the Cable shaft                    13          43           58
21         13-35   Excavation concreting & lining of the penstocks               31          50           58
* 22         45-46   Completion of the second unit                                  3          61           61
23         45-47   Preliminary operation of the first unit                        3          61           65
* 24         46-48   Completion of the third unit                                   2          63           63
25         46-49   Preliminary operation of the second unit                       3          64           65
* 26          48-50   Preliminary operation of the third unit                       2          65           65
27         4-43    Excavation of the taílrace tunnel                             53          57           58
28         23-36   Excavation & concreting of the surge bank                     12         49            55
29         8-36    Excavation of the pressure tunnel                             45         49            55
30         9-27    Excavation & concreting of the penstocks (upper part)   31               40            55
31         36-42   Inspection adit concrete plug                                  3         52            58
32         1-12    Access road to dam site                                      18          18           34
33         15-17   Construction of diversion tunnel                               5         32           39
34         17-18   Upstream cofferdam & river diversion                           2         34           41
35         18-20   Concrete face toe slab excavation                              3         37           44
36         20-22   Concrete face toe slab                                         2         39           46
37         17-26   Dam site common excavation                                    10         42           55
38         22-34   Grouting of dam foundation                                     9         48            55
39         29-37   Concrete face slab                                             7         52           55
40         30-38   Dam instrumentation                                            7         52           55
41         22-32   Dam rockfill embankment                                        8         47           55
42         25-33   Pressure tunnel intake                                         6         47           49
43         33-40   Intake gate &                                                  6         53           55
44         41-44   Closure of diversion tunnel                                    3         57           58
* Critical-path activities
1/ Starting from the date of civil works contract award.



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACIO1F (I^REI
FORTUNA NYOROELECTRIC PROJECT
CPM CHART FOR PART A OF THF PROJECT
PANAMA
29~~~~~~~~2
q~~         ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- -»-
DS                       ---E                                                                           \~~~~-----
…17
Uni No. 2 -nt f.
_______2 \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- ...                                                                     nnnWO8 n9.<sn.nt
5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
K\ 1. t.~
A\TIVITV    ,Oubolon nf ,íf,n,nl                                                                                                                [ í     * - - -
\r,flnal                                                                           |    _      __p.                         |              atmmb;d
.Dínf          32511              .Sí 9mn5i 4-i_i                                                                           b¡



of
0
Z9691-u29 Pl'°M                                                                                                                                                                                                   1101!^ ld-!90I1I1  *
~~~~~~~~~j   1    Í       2   -------------              - 11-- 1--ía   oío        E
;71 -;    10 -;= < - ----- -----------
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --  AÁ  ---  ----                                                                                               i i- I'- ;,,'i'''SuCwW'31°
---91>. .. 8:. ...0-    6?--------
I   c96,   ze61             .66,                          066,                          óóóó                          óóóó            1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------  ..........¿
13HEl)~~~~~-01091 110!1SH131   A                                                                                     WODIPíV8h0OOSW10H30lSOflSN
---0-0---- --- --------------                         .a010450   gE
-    ------------------9.....  ..0009           ge
----------------  -- a . oI o    ..6600 ld010  VE
tkb.  --                                                                *~~~~~-------  ...
1  -                                     ll0'11911101,110  00,-1- -------------a L0
un                               -                                                                                            0000110lN1í000í19100000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M, M~3
'117~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0000001009010 
.... .......                         .. .......     ---------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1(1098  01003000091018209 0
----   ----- - ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ......000-------1---0-         61
…---------- ----------- 500b íO aO ao            o010         . 1
tjj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........d T,.... ....
p~0jíolt 400110010001110004  0
----   --------     -   1,1 00  OlíooOís1o4        0
1111 -       11011 ~0O01 011 101 fi1l1000 a6l1s-lsoj    9
-----0-------- -------0-1-        -I
---         --- --0-- --   -1--- -- ---01
---             ... ..
_____                                                    ¿-~~~~~(HJON10O:1809-- -. 19 A--D-  ntCI    ouoe   GOJlneLISN



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
PART B: Fortuna Transmission System          1977            1978            1979             1980            1981             1982             1983
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Preparation of Bids
Bid Evaluation and Contract Award
Fortuna Switchyard Construction                                                                       _  _            _               _
Panama Substation Construction                                                                        _  _   _   _   _   _   _ _ _
Fortuna - David Line Construction                                                                     _  _        _   _   _
PART C: Organization Improvement
Program and Training
Terms of Reference
Selection of Consultants
Contract Award
Studies and Implementation              _       _   _  _   _
Worid Bank-17503
0 g -



ANNEX VII
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 2 pages
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Fortuna Project Implementatíon Schedule
I.  Key Dates for Bank-Financed Portion of the Project
Estimated
date
1.  Loan effectiveness                                             10/77
2. River diversion, dam and spillway
2.1 Procurement
(1)  IBRD clearance to bidding documents                      1/79
(ii)  Publication                                              2/79
(iii)  Bid opening                                              5/79
(iv)  Award of contract                                      10/79
2.2 Project execution
(see Attachments 2 and 3)
3.  Ancillary electromechanical eguipment and            1/       2/       3/       4'
distribution line                                 Nol-    No2-    No3-    No4-Z
3.1  Procurement
(1)  IBRD clearance for bidding documents        1/78    5/79    7/79   11/79
(ii)  Publication                                  2/78    6/79    8/79   12/79
(iii)  Bid opening                                  5/78    9/79    1/80    3/80
(iv)  Award of contract                           8/78   12/79    4/80    6/80
3.2 Project execution
(see Attachments 2 and 3)
4. Transmission system
4.1 Procurement
(i)  IBRD clearance  for bidding documents                   1/80
(ii)  Publication                                              2/80
(iii)  Bid opening                                              5/80
(iv)  Award of contract                                      10/80
4.2 Project execution
(see Attachment 3)
5. Engineering5/
5.1  IBRD clearance to proposed contract extension
with consultants                                              9/78
5.2  Contract signature                                           12/78
6.       InIgnn andI trf,vinQ
6.1 Preparation and clearance of documents
(1) IBRD clearance to proposed Terms
of Reference                                           5/77
(ii) IBRD clearance to proposed
consulting firm                                        5/77
(iii) IBRD clearance to contract with
consultant firm                                        8/77
(iv)  Contract of the consulting firm                          9/77
6.2 Inp1empntatiou
(see Attanrhnt 31
1/  Powerhouse Crane.
2/  Distributlon line from powerhonse to dam site.
3/  General Contract.
4/  High voltage cable.
5/ Dates shown are the latest acceptable.  IRHE has proposed to extend
early in 1977 the existing contract with the consulting firm C.T.
Main which has carried out most of the specifications, drawings and
bidding documents for the project



ANNEX VII
,.ltach-.r,e.t: 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Fortuna Project Implementation Schedule
II. Key Dates for IDB Financed Portíon of the Project
Estimated
date
1. IDB - Loan effectiveness
2. Underground works
2.1 Procurement
(i)  IDB clearance to bidding documents                  2/77
(ií)  Publication                                         3/77
(iii)  Bid opening                                          7/77
(iv)  Award of Contract                                  12/77
2.2 Project execution
(see Attachments 2 and 3)
3. Engineering
3.1 IDB clearance to proposed contract extension
with consultants
3.2 Contract signature
III.Key Dates for Suppliers Financed Portion of the Project
1. Main Generating equipment
1.1 Procurement
(i)  IDB - Bank clearance to bídding documents           5177
(ii)  Publication                                         6/77
(iii)  Bid opening                                          9/77
(iv)  Award of contract                                    1/78
1.2 Erection and installation
(see Attachments 2 and 3)



ANNEX VIII
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Assumptions
Loan approval and signing:           June 1977
Effective date:                      October 1977
Closing date                         December 1983
IBRD Fiscal Year               Disbursements              Cumulative Disbursements
and Semester                   During Semester            at end of Semester
1978:  first                         0.2                            0.2
second                       0.3                            0.5
1979:  first                         1.3                            1.8
second                       1.4                            3.2
1980:  first                         4.2                            7.4
second                       4.2                            11.6
1981:  first                         5.5                           17.1
second                       5.6                           22.7
1982:  first                         6.0                           28.7
second                       6.1                           34.8
1983:  first                         3.6                           38.4
second                       3.6                           42.0
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF TRE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROSECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACIO1N (IRHEE)
PANAMA
Forecast Performance Indicators
1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983
1.  Market Indicators
1.1 Total number of customers (thousands)        174.7     182.6     197.7      214.3    227.5      241.2      255.5     270.3      285.7
1.2  Total sales GWh 5/                        1,013.9   1,097.6   1,389.0   1,546.4   1,712.4   1,870.3   2,044.9   2,236.0   2,445.6
2. Technical-efficiency Indicators
Employees in operations                          N.A.    2,609     2,719      2,808     2,907     3,008      3,074     3,154      3,281
Construction employees i/                        N.A.      980       980        980       980       980        980       980        980
Total employees                                  N.A.    3,589      3,699     3,788     3,887     3,988      4,054     4,134      4,261
2.1  Customers/employee 4/                        50.9      70.0       72.7      76.3      78.3       80.2      83.1      85.7       87.1
2.2  GWh soldlemployee 4-/                        29.5      42.1      49.8       55.1      58.9      62.2       66.5      70.9       74.5
2.3  Total losses (%)  45                         14.4      14.9      12.9       12.5      12.3       12.2      12.2      12.2       12.2
2.4  Operating expenses/kWh J35/                 N.A.        4.55       3.72      3.66      3.36       3.19      3.24      3.00       2.28
3. Financial Indicators
3.1  Debt service coverage                       N.A.        1.0        2.0       1.7       1.6        1.8       1.9       2.1        2.8
3.2  Receivables from customers at
year-end (number of days)                    79        76        60         60        60         60        60        60         60
3.3  Operating ratio                              86        89        68         66        60         57        59        58         49
Based on an analysis of the personnel rosterl includes most of engineering staff.
i/  As a % of the total net generation.
1  In cents of 1975 balboas.
/ Based on employees in operation only.
2/ Average hydrological year assumed.
M.y 31, 1977



ANNEX X
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAUICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Finances
Summary
1.        In the past IRHE has suffered financial difficulties due to the absence
of base tariff increases during a period in which the utility was experiencing
large cost overruns in its expansion program and facing delays in receiving
payments from the Government on account of both electricity bills and equity
contributions.  In 1977 expanded market plus tariff increases should enable
IRHE to improve its financlal condition. A phased program of tariff increases
will yield the target rates of return of 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978, and 8.75%
in 1979; further tariff increases should maintain the 8.75% return thereafter.
These revenue increases coupled with the savings derived from the Bayano
hydro project, and from completion of La Estrella and Los Valles (currently in
execution), will substantially increase IRHE's internal financing capacity.
2.        Attached are the following statements:
Attachment 1 - key financial ratios
Attachment 2 - income statements
Attachment 3 - sources and applications of funds
Attachment 4 - balance sheets
Attachment 5 - work in progress and composition of capi,tal
Attachment 6 - rate base
Attachment 7 - terms applicable to long-term debt
Attachment 8 - long-term debt statements
Attachment 9 - disbursement and amortization statements
Attachment 10 - interest charged to construction
Attachment 11 - interest charged to income
Attachment 12 - investment and financing programs
Attachment 13 - assumptions used in projections
Earnings History and Financial Position
3.        IRHE's financial difficulties have been due to several reasons:
(1) the Bayano hydroplant, commissioned in late 1976, and the Third Power Project,
still in execution, have suffered large cost overruns; these are estimated at
B 48.2 million or 84% of appraisal estimate and B 10 million or 25%, respectively.
To finance these larger than expected requirements IRHE, lacking appropriate
financial planning procedures, resorted to medium- and short-term commercial
financing (including supplier and bank overdraft financing for operating expenses)
which resulted in a lack of liquidity and an overburdened debt service schedule
over the medium-term; (2) even though the Government allowed IRHE to pass on to
consumers the cost increases in imported fuel (an increase of about 75% in
electricity bills between 1973 and 1976) it did not authorize rate increases
allowing IRHE to recover its increases  in costs other than fuel; thus, the rate
of return on unrevalued assets decreased from 11.3% in 1973 to only 3.9% in
1976; at the Government request, the Bank agreed in October 1975 to waive the
8.75% rate of return covenant (Loans 661-PAN and 948-PAN) for the 1974-76



ANNEX X
Page 2 of 4
period; (3) erJen thougkn ir` l9,3-176 the Government contri.buted B 48 míllion
to IRHE's capítalizat-ion, these vere nolot suffi.cient to offset the impact of
the above two poimo; arnd also (4) the Government was slow in paying both its
committed equity contríbutiolos and its electricity bills,
4.        IRHE's increasing1y ílliquid position can be judged by the times
that internal cash generatíon has c.overed total debt service; thus, at the
time of the appraisal of the Third Project this index was expected to be 1.3
in 1973 and 1.4 in 1976; actually9 in 1976 internal cash generation barely
covered debt service.  Al.so 5 net c,urrent assets (used as a proxy for working
capital for which relIable fir.-,¿ ere not available) were expected to stand
atB 5 million at end-1973 and at 5 4 iWlion at end-1976; actually, they stood
at minus B 14 million at endbl976; In fact, IRHE has a large proportion (esti-
mated at about one third) of its outstanding payables past due (Annex X,
Attachment 13, para. 12),
1977 and Future Tariff Increases
5.        IRHE expect:s that 4.ts Y1977 r2e.nues will be about 43% higher than those
of 1976; this abnormally hiíh increase is explained by (1) a normal growth
in demand of 8.5%, resutmntion of the sales contract with the Panama Canal
Company (para. 2.07) which amounts to 15.5% of 1976 sales, and connection of
some high consumption cu.st3mers wTliose d1emand abaut to about 2.5%  of 1976
(Annex I, Attachrnent 1); '(2  a tariff increase effective January 1, 1977, which
is expected to víil  about 10.5% of 1976 revenues; and (3) further tariff increases
of 1% per month from February 1 th.-ough December 1, 1977, which would yield a
total of 6% over the 1976 reventues. Becaujse of the change ln the mix of
IRHE's sales, average --ovenues per kW-h in 1977 is expected to be 13% higher
than in 1976 (see Attachnment 13 ,note 115). The above increase in revenues
which the Governnent has allowed IlRHE to implement, is expected to meet an agreed
upon minimum rate of return of 7% for 1977.
6.        The Government has also a.reed to allow IRIIE to obtain an 8% rate of
return in 1978 and 8.75% in 1979 and thereafter (para. 6.02). In order to
reach these targets and under the assumptions used to prepare the financial
projections (see Attachment 13), IRHE would need the following tariff increases,
effective January 1 each year-
1978     1%                 1981     1.3%
1979     7.6%               1983     1.3%
1980     5.6%               1984    14.7%
In 1982 no tar-iff increase ir. pxrojected to be required; however, tariffs were
kept constant (yielaing a S.,2% retuirn) since increases over the 1981 level are
expected to be necessary in 1983. Over the period 1978-1983 all these tariff
increases are expected to produce E 112.7 million, or about 20% of total capital
expenditures for tL-e perlod (inTlding -onstruction works that start in 1980,
see Annex V, para. 3).
Projected Financial Situation
7.        The frina&cíaz projections were reviewed with IRRE during negotitations
and it was agreed that Lhey continued to be the best estimate available of the
utility's future finances, with the mi.nor exception noted in footnotes 7/ and



ANNEX X
Page 3 of 4
8/ of Attachment 7. It was agreed that if IRHE could obtain financing on the
indicated terms for the main generating equipment and the complementary works,
IRHE's financial situation would be reviewed with the Bank to determine if
the iaew tL,--fs would lead to a significant difference from the present projections.
If this were to be the case, IRHE would be expected to propose remedial
action (increasesin cash generation or reduction in investment) or to obtain
funds from the Governnent.on the terms shown in Attachment 7. In addition to
its conmitment to provide the funds required to complete the Third and Fourth
iniaKz projects, the Government has agreed to provide any funds required (in
excess of the financing indícated in Attachment 7) to complete the La Estrella
and Los Valles projects. All these arrangements should protect IRHE's finances
against cost overruns on its major projects.
8.        If the above tariff increases are implemented and IRHE's finances
do not experience significant deviation from those currently expected, then
the utility's financial position should recover rapidly to continue improving
later on (Attachment 1).  The Bank has agreed to IRHE's US$25.0 million 7-year
(2 years grace) borrowing from a consortium of commercial banks (Attachment 6);
although this borrowing does not help IRHE improve the term structure of its
debt, it should allow it to reach a healthy current liquidity level. The
operating ratio (which decreases from 89 ir. 1976 to 68 in 1977 and to 49 by
1983) reflects a wider revenue coverage of opera.ting expenses, while average
revenue per kWh in real terms (in balboas of 1975) remains quite stable in the
area of 5.30 cents of balboas, which is not high given the characteristics of
IRHE's installations.
9.        IRHE's capital structure, as measured by the debt equity ratio, improves
dramatically from 41/59 in 1976 to 16/84 in 1983. This is explained by the
rapid amortization of the long-term debt (which peaks in 1982) as well
as by the high equity capitalization of IRHE which is greatly influenced by the
revaluation of its fixed assets.
10.       IRHE's debt burden, as indicated by the debt service coverage, improves
from 1.0 in 1976 to 2.8 by 1983. This improvement is explained by both an
increasing generation of funds from operations and a debt service which starts
decreasing by 1982.
11.       By 1983 IRHE should be at a high level of self-sufficiency with a
net internal cash generation of about 75% of its total capital expenditures
(30% in 1977). If this situation materialized, then IRHE could opt either
for a low level of indebtedness, a decrease in its tariffs, dividend payments
to the Government, or al.y combination among the three alternatives.  If
tariffs were decreased, IRHE would have to review with the Bank its financial
requirements and agree on a minimum acceptable return on the rate base. To
establish this return, IRHE should review the level of demand for power under
various pricing assumptions in order to determine a level of electricity prices
would strike an appropriate balance between an undue growth in demand (leading
to the need to expand capacity prematurely) and ensuring full utilization of the
project's output.
Rate or Return
12.       Decree Law No. 31 entitles electricity companies to an 8.75-9.5%
rate of return (Annex II) computed as the percent of operating income on the
rate base; the rate base is the average net fixed assets for the year plus a



ANNEX X
Page 4 of 4
working capital allowance equivalent to 1/4 of the annual operating revenues.
The sensitivity analysis (Annex XI) establishes the rate of return that would
be required to meet IRHE's funds requirements at between 8% and 9.5% for 1977-83.
On the other hand, the weighted average rate of interest on debt for the same
period is expected to be of the order of 8.5% with a debtlequity ratio of
about 40-20/60-80. Considering that the rate of return should provide the funds
required to pay the interest rate on debt and the imputed cost on the utility's
own capital, then the 8-9.5% range for the required rate of return would imply
an imputed cost for IRHE's own capital of about 8-10% which is considered
reasonable. Therefore, both the 8-9.5% range for the rate of return for the
períod and the 8.75% minimum rate also seem reasonable (Attachment 13, para. 11).



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Actual and Estimated Kev_Financial Ratios
(AII amounts other than ratios are expressed in millions of balboas)
Actual                                                               Forecast
1973      1974       1975            1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
Operating
Average revenue per kWh (in cents of balboas)1             3.15      4.66       5.48             5.70     6.44       6.96       7.62      8.11       8.50       8.64       8.32
Rate increases (Z)                                        5.0        48.0      18.0              2.0      19.5        1.0        7.6       5.6        1.3        _          1.3
Price deflators (%)4 J                                     30.1      15.9        1.0             8.8       8.1        7.5        7.5        7.1       7.0        7.0        7.0
Average revenue per kWh (in centa of 1975 balboas)         4.75      5.40       5.48             5.24     5.48       5.50       5.61       5.57      5.46       5.18       4.67
Operating ratio                                           N.A. 5       92         86              89        68         66         60         57        59         58         49
Operating expenses per kWh (in cents of balboas)          N.A.       4.22      4.64             5.18      4.38       4.62       4.57      4.65       5.05       5.00      4.o6
Operating expenses per kWh (in cents of 1975 balboas)   N.A.         4.89      4.64             4.76      3.72       3.66       3.36      3.19       3.24       3.00       2.28
Rate of return 3                                           11.3       4.0        7.5            2.1         7.0       8.0       8.75      8.75       8.75        9.2       8.75
Average depreciation rate                                 N.A.        3.2        3.3             3.2        3.2       3.2        3.1        3.1       3.1        3.1        2.9
Average revaluation rate                                    -         -          -              10.8      10.5       10.2        9.9        9.6       9.2        8.8        8.4
Number of average days bills outstanding                    130       130         79              76        60         60         60         60        60         60         60
Financing
Times debt service covered by gross internal cash gen. N.A.         N.A.       N.A.             1.0       1.9        1.6        1.4       1.6        1.9        2.1        2.8
Debt service as percent of revenues                       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.              26         26        33         40         38        32         30         26
Debt/equity ratio                                         41/59     44/56      48/52           41/59     39161      37/63       31/69    26/74       22/78     18/82      16/84
Weighted average original maturities of debt
outstanding at year end (years) 4/                        -          -         -              15.1      15.0       14.2       14.6       16.0       17.3      18.3       19.2
Weighted average remaining repayment period of
debt outstanding at vear end (years)                      -         -          -              11.3       10.8      10.0        9.6       10.1       10.8      11.0       11;2
Weighted average interest rate on debt
outstanding at year end (%) j                             -          -         -               8,1        8.3       8.6        8.7        8.7        8.6        8.6       8.6
Debt bearíng variable rateB as percent of total
debt outstanding                                                                                33         32         40        40         34         28         22         18
Annual contribution to investment from internal
resources (%)                                            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.              (1)        29         32        45         55         57         68         76
1   Includes fuel surcharge; rate increases from 1973 through 1976 were due only to ínereases in fuel.
2/  Source:  Tables 17, 18 of Vol. I, Updating Report on the Economy of Panama of May 13, 1976.
3   1973-75 on unrevalued asseta' 1976-84 on revalued assets.                                                                                                                                  n
Based on original terms.                                                                                                                                                                     x
Revenue and cost breakdowns for electricity, gas, and telephone operations not available.
May 1977



Actatl ed Fore..  in nCse- Sttect-e       1973-1983
(On slEte- of balboas)
Yeso *ndíng D-cher 31                                                                 19 t3 1974 1t97                           1296          19t               ;97                                                             otat198
nargy s.la. <l.. ) (ese cna        )                                                 962.3     955.1   1,013.9               1,097.6   1,389.0   1,546.4   1,712.4   1,870.3   2,044.9   2,236.0   2,445.6                    i3,244.6
A-erge  reveno. pe, 481 (c--to of blboas)                                            3.15       4.66       5.48                 5,70       6.44      6.96       7.62       8.11      9.50       B.64       8.32                     7.80
Sale. revenan                                                              1 
-  fra. -Ppr-oed tovlfCa                                                        41.6       46.3       57.2                 62.6       89.4     10639      121.0    tS2.t       149.4      166.1      172.7                  936.7
. fr- ta.  1ff tocresva aCter 1977                                                                                                               0.7       10.4       19.4      24.4       27.1       30.7                  122.7
lpen tie                                                              4         2093       11,4-      14.7'                13.2       14.5      15.9       17.8       20.0      22.1       24.6       26.5                  l41.4
OpIat  o                                                              2,4         4.52/    2:95J       4.<0                 4.6        5.4       6.1        7.2        8.3        9.5      10.9       12.3                    59.7
Foel a     .                                                          3         N.A.2/    24.0        25.6                 28.2       24.0      29.8       28.9       25.4       37.6      37.9       13.5                   230.1
Par-hs-ed par                                                         5         ñ.x.        0.6        0.4                  0.7                             -.         -                    -          -
Oaponníation                                                          6          4.1        3.S        4.0                  9.4       lá.3      19.0       23.6       2S.5       33.2      37.4       45.9                   204.9
Rydr tarology 1_                                                                          -                                ...- 0.8   0.872        7.L     _M        _A9         ---st     ..s        __s
Tat.a 1spee..                                                               29.5       42.7       49.2                 56.9      60.9       71,5       78.3      87.0      103.3      111.8        9.2
opsretleg iac                                                                        12.1       3.6        8.0                  5.7       25.5       36.1      52.1       64.6      i7.5        81.4     104.2                   437.4
0th-r inas                                                                 7           0.9       2.0        0.8                  2.6        2.2        2.8       2.8        2.9        3.8        3.8        1.4                   19.7
Incg_ btfore Entoeat chn.rgn                                                          13.0       5.6        8.o                  B.3       30.7       38.9      54.9       67.5       74.3      85.2      105.6                   457.1
InternE as«pease:                                                          8
xletiqd d-ht                                                                      4.8       4.8        6.7                  8.9       13.5       14.7      14.5       12.9       11.1        9.3       7.8                    83.8
Propasd debt                                                                                  -                             -          0,                   8 .1     ..L         10.0      12.1       14a26
TeteS                                    -.Z9                                           'CF       T7                   13         W!        eo7.o                 oo.
Lnaa:  Intrt d.ríng o          -nrontio                                          1.0       3.7       S.8                  13.7        7.3      13.3       20.6       13.3       20.2      29.5       407                     44
T.t.1 Inte-t  M-..                                                           3.8        1.1        0.9                                   )                                   75           És 7      I) tg)
lia  ints                                       =,J                                            ,Jej                             13.1    i'2.3         3i',2    S 2.9        5S.7    , 6         g3.3   712;4563
¡tn bas  (>.e  Lttanlent 5)                                                           14.3      69.5      104.1                113.6      453.3      459.8      595.8     73S.1      805.7      884,7   1,191.1
Rata of rntnrn (<)                                                                    11.3       4.0        7.5                  2.1        7.0        8.0       8.75      8.75       8.75        9.2       8.75
1/  Isol edee  r ev anno es  nd  a os   fO-  níantr lotty  ,   nd    t. l p7 nw   tpe vntlo o.;  -n n   8 fr a    el antricity   -2 o tnad   t e:   8/30.3   ellton   in   1973,   r/44.5  íIllio   i e  1974,  atN l    1/55.5   illon   í a  1975;   r _  fr-   t -l _   t
S/ 10.4 dllion  Le 1973  nd níl En 1974 *nd 1975; r-ae  fEra  gea   ,o,ted tE  1;/.9 Mlltn in 1973, /l.6 *ílliíon En 1974, ad il/1.3 anilln   En 1975.   etaíl of a ses Ny typa of  -parallas e¡ t e.eSl7. ioe 1973.
I la 1973 op retinad e n     E .nde fusl expon. and  -rob-hed por ; brn--dso  a-a at  -atibl..
Up/ iP to 1973 hydonn--ro-ay   f*pn-        re  f;ndad 1th5 tlDP ¡vast. ned ran.rd.              ..ra ka» saparatly; tentíng 1976 th.es dll o. l1H'.- av napsnPas.
Si  Sci:lee enaoitcrvesO¡ oc go. errtotios: n.    t nvnlí1blr in 1971, $2.3   1lic  in 1974, ..d $2.1 miion i  1975; 8ev Att.l=ent 13, note 15.
2/ Includei vxpendítwrvt on gea operatiote: no. ..     nil- bl1 in 1973, $0.1 riion I" 1974 -.d 1975; aro Att-vh-e,:t 13, cote 15.
RaB sd   oc   nonotelnod    n.t. 1   fIr o.-   t.o   N -ov e*-r   1976:    prel- a;r-Y   figureo  to   D -e obor  1976  ho o no   -ub ovant- í l   diff -re-c-   cOth   th cre  totionte .                                                                     p
Sin 1977
t1-



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS 8IDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRH1)
PAISANA
Forecast Source and Apolicatiocs of Funds 1976-1983
Notes      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982      1983              1977-1983
SOURCES
OperatigS incorne                                                                           5.7      28.5       36.1      52.1       64.6       70.5      81.4      104.2                 437.4
Plus:  deprocfation                                                                         9.6      16.3       19.0      23.6       29.5       33,2      37.4       45.9                 204.9
Groas titerral cash gesra-tion                                                             15.3      44.8       55.1      75.7       94.1      103.7     118.8      150.1                 W2.3
Lese:  debt ser-ico (see attachoets 8 tE  10)
asortiration - existlig                                                             7.1        6.7      11.7       18.8       22.6      20.2       19.8       16.1                 115.9
- propoced                                                             -         1.1        3.3      11.3       12.6       13.9      15.6       15.6                  74.3
Interest     - existing                                                             8.9       13.5      14.7       14.5       12.9      11.1        9.3        7.8                  83.8
- propsoed                                                           -           2.2      9.8        -.--1       9.2       l.o       1.-1?    ..á.                    6l.4
Total dAbt servi-s                                                                    16.0      23.5       35.0      52.7       57.3       56.o       57.7      53.7                 335.9
Lesa:  interest duriog constructio  sctually paid                                     7,2        6.8       9.3       12.5        6.1        8.4       9.8      .,c                    S4.4
Total oet debt service                                                                 8.8      16.7       25.7      40.2       51.2       47.6       47.9      52.2 
I.crasse ín non-cash working capital                                       9          8,6        3.6       3j         6.4        3.8      5.2         3.2        3,9                  29.8
Net internal cvsh goneration                                                          (2.1)     24.5       25.7      29.1       39.1       50.9      67.7       94.0                 331.0
Borroingas (sea sttach set 8)                                                  11
Existing - IBRD (661-PAN)                                                             5.6        -          -         -          -          -          -
- IBRD (948-PAN)                                                            13.2        7.1       -          -          -         -          -          -                     7.1
- Swodish Group                                                             18.6      24.1       16.7        4.2        -         -          -         -                     45.0
- Co. orcial benks                                                          33.0                  -          -          -         -          -          -                     -
- Suppliers                                                                  2.8       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1 0.1     0i.1.--J.           0.1                    0.7
Total                                                                                 73.2      31.3       16.8       4.3        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1                   52.3
Pr.posod - IBRD    (Fortuna)                                                                -         0.2        0.3        2.7       8.4       11,1       12.1        7.2                  42.0
- IDB package    (Fortuna)                                                        -          0.6      20.6       10.4       14.9       20.2      12.3       19.0                  98.0
- Supplier.:
-   Fortuna equiproot                                                           -          -         2.2        4.9        3.2       3.0        3.4        4.9                  21.6
- Csmplímentary transmaisson                                                    -         10.2      13.8        4.0                   -         -          -                    28.0
- Distribution ard rural electrificatior                                        -          i.6       2.2        2.1        2.3       2.5        2.9        3.5                  17.1
-  Cosmmroial                                                                      -          3.0        7.0       4.0        -          -          -         -                    14.0
Total                                                                                           15.6       46.1       28.1      28.8       36.8       30.7      222.
Total borrowinigs                                                                     73.2 ht7.2                      32.       28.9       36.9       30.8       34.7                 273.5
Govarnment contríbutio.s                                                       13          14.6       15.2       9.5       12.8       10.0        2.0       -          -                    49.5
Coveoreot subsAidies                                                            7           2.6        2.2       2.8        2.8        2.9        3.8       3.8        1.4                  19.7
Advanced paymeots to contractors                                                            4.2       --          -         -          _--                  -          -                     -
TOTAL SOURCES                                                                         92.5      88.8      100.9       77.1       80.9      93.6      102.3      130.1                 623a
APPLICATIONS
Cowstruction progr.sU:
Ongoing projects:
Socon.d Project - local                                                              9.7
- foreign                                                           20.1
Third Frotjfct  - S0acS                                                              5.4       4.8        1.0        -          _         _                                           5.8
- foreign                                                           15.2       7.2        1.2        -          -         -          -          -                     8.4
Estrella-Valles - local                                                              8.4       9.3        6.3        2.8        -          -         -          -                    18.4
- foreign                                                          13.0      18.7       13.0        5.6       -                                                     37.3
Total ongoing projocts                                                                71,8      40.0       21.5        8.4        -          -         -          -                    f9._ 9
Proposad projocte:
Fortuna - local                                                                   2.3       5.6       12.3        8.2      11.3       15.5       11.4        8.1                  72.4
- foreigo                                                                1,1        3.6      20.2       18.3       26.8       36.2      23.5       21.2                 149.8
Complementary transmission -socal í10'                                                                   6'6        2-3                                                             12,3
Othsr construction - local                                                           4.6        7.7       7.3        8.7        8.1        9.2       9.3       11.6                  61.9
- foreign                                                       6.2       11.2       13.5      15.4       16.1       16.1       18.2      23.4                  113.9
Total proposed projecta                                                               14.2       39.4      68.6       55.0       62.3       77.0       62.4      64.3                 429.0
Futuro projects - local                                                                -          -          -         0.3        1.1        4.1       17.8      23.3                   46.6
- foreign                                                                       __ __                            1.6        1.9      10.0       34.2                  47.7
Total futura proJects                                                                                                  J -  -  0.3  2.7      6.0      27.8       57.5                   94.3
Total construction progra                                                             86,0       79.4      90.1       63.7       65.0       83.0      90.2      121.8                  593.2
Interest duri.g construction aetually paid                                     11           7.2        6.8        9.3       12.5       6.1        8.4        9.8        1.5                  54.4
Lwoco on gao and other outflows                                                 14           0.7       0.7        1.2        0.8        0.9       0.9        1.0        1.1                   6.6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                                                    93,9       86.9     100.6       77.0       72,0       92.3      101.0     124.4                  654.2
Cash surplus (deficit)                                                                      (1.4)      1.9        0.3        0.1       8,9        1.3        1.3        1.7                  19.5
Csoh balance *t begitsíng                                                                    1.4
Cash balance at eod                                                                          -         1.9        2.2        2.3       11,2      12.5       13.8       19.5
Estimated minimum canh balances required                                         9                      1.9       2.        2.3        2.4        2.9       3.1        2.2
Estimoted s-rplís cash                                                                                            -                     8.8        9.6      10.7       17.3
MVy 1977



INSTITIITO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRNE)
PANAMA
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet 1973-1983
(in míllions of balboas)
Notes               Actual                                                                  Forecaet
Year endíng December 31                                             1973       1974       1975                1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982      1983
ASS1STS
Fizad assets in operation                                          102.5      127.8     138.4                446.3      527.3     606.6      857.4     966.6   1,083.8   1,232.8   1,829.9
Lees:  accusulated depreciation                             6      (35.4      (39.1)    (43.5)               (92.51   (118.5>   (149.,6    (188.0)   (235.5)   (290.4)   (353.4)   (429.0)
Net fixed asaeta in operation (see attachment 5)                    67.1       88.7      94.9                353.8      408.8     457.0      669.4      731.1     793.4      879.4   1,400.9
Conatruction in progreso                                            29.8       47.7     108.4                  41.3     103.1     197.5      115.8      182.8     280.3      377.6      86.0
Total net fixed assets                             10, 11      96.9 ¡1  136.4      203.3                395.1      511.9     654.5      785.2     913.9   1,073.7   1,257.0   1,486.9
Caah and equivalent                                                  1.6        0.5        1.4                  -         1.9        2.2       2.3       11.2      12.5       13.8      19.5
Current asuetl:                                             12
Receívables                                                    14.9       16.8      12.7                 13.0       14.9      17.9       21.7      25.3       29.0       32.2      33.9
Fuel                                                           )5 8        1.2       1.4                   1.5       2.0       5.0        4.8       4.6        6.8        6.4       6.2
;1aterialu                                                                 1.8       2.1                   2.5       3.3       3.7        4.2        4.7       5.3        5.9       6.5
Total                                                          20.7       19.8      16.2                  17.0      20.2      26.6       30.7      34.6       41.1       44.5      46.6
Other asueta                                                12       3.6       11.5      11.5                   7.3       7.3        7.7      7.7         7.7       7.7        7.7       7.7
TOTAL ASSETS                                                  122.8      168.2     232,4        4.4         4      511.3      910                 =967.    1,135.0   1.         i  M
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital                                                             61.6 óJ   74.8       96.7                 225.4     308.6      407.7     542.6      690.3     855.3   1,047.1   1,284.6
Long-term debt (cee attachment 7)                                   43.2       59.4      89.8                 155.9     195.0      242.9     245.2      238.9     241.7      236.2      238.2
Les&: current maturities                                             4.6       _.IL6      6,6                   7.8      15.0       30.1     j35.2       34.1      36.3       31.7       28.9
Net long-term debt                                                  38.6       54.8      83.2                 I.1       180.0      210. 2      0.8      205.4                204.5      209.3
Currenít maturitie. of long-term debt                                4.6        4.6        6.6                  7.8      15.0       30.1      35.2       34.1      36.3       31.7       28.9
Current liabilities                                         12
Bank overdraftc                                                 2.6        8.0       7.0                   -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -
Payables                                                        6.5 Y      6.0 j/    5.3                   4.5       4.1        6.8                  4,6       5,9        6.1        4.3
Total                                                           9.1       14.0      12.3                  4.5        4.1        68         4.7       4.6       5.9        6.1        4.3
Other liabiliíití   /                                       12        8.9 V/   20.0 y    33.6                 33.6       36         33.6      33.6       33.6       33.6      33,6       33.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                                 12Z.8      168.2     232.4                 419.4     541.3      6        h           91'.   í,T35.          3      í3   7
=l Exciudes telephone operations.
V  Eatimtes.
/  Includes some  fount  vhich belong iínlong-termdebtor aeacmtepayable,transitcrily recorded herej these were estimated at about B/13 million as of December 31, 1975, but the detail ia aot
available; therefore, actual long-term debt excludes some amounte which have not been properly clLasified and payables are estimated.
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Work in Progress, 1976-1983
(in millions of balboas)
Notes       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981       1982        1983
Work in progress:
Balance as of January 1                         108.4       41.3      103.1      197.5      115.8       182.8      280.3      377.6
Additions during the year                        86.0       79.4       90.1       63.7        65.0       83.0       90.2      121.8
Interest during construction        8, 11       13.7         7.3       13.3       20.6       13.3        20.2       29.5       40.7
Revaluations during the year        10           17.9        9.2       16.5       24.7        15.6       22.6       31.2       40.4
Total                                       226.1      137.2      223.0       306.5      209.7      308.6      431.2       580.5
Transfers to plant in service                   184.7       34.1       25.5      190.7       26.9        28.3       53.6      494.5
Balance as of December 31                        41.3      103.1      197.5      115.8       182.8      280.3      377.6       86.0
Composition of Capital, 1976-1983
Balance as of January 1                            96.7      225.4      308.6      407.7       542.6      690.3      853.8   1?047.1
Plus:  net income                                  13.1       22.3       32.2        52.9       58.7       72.6       93.3       124.3
Government contributions                   14.6       15.2         9.5       12.8       10.0         2.0        -          -
revaluation of assets in
operation                     10          25.5       46.9       53.8        60.1       82.3        88.9       95.4      103.6
revaluation of construction
in progress                               17.9        9.2        16.5       24.7       15.6        22.6       31.2       40.4
asset revaluation through
1975 - net                    10          66.4
Less:  revaluation of depreciation 10              (8.1)      (9.7)     (12.1)      (14.8)     (18.0)      (21.7)     (25.6)     (29.7)
Losses on gas operationa    14             (0.7)       (0.7)      (0.8)      (0.8)       (0.9)      (0.9)      (1.0)       (1.1)
Balance as of December 31                         225.4      308.6      407.7       542.6      690.3      853.8   1,047.1    1,284.6
May  1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRRE)
PAI~M
Forecsut Rate Base. 1976-1983 9'
(in milliona of balboas)
Notes           1976       1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983
Groas fixed assets in operation:
Fixed asaete as of Jsnuary 1                     10,11          236.1 y  446.3       527.3     606.6      857.4     966.6   1,083.8   1,232.8
Additiona during the year                                       184.7 ,    34.1       25.5      190.7 2J   26.9       28.3      53.6     493.5 iJ
Revaluationa during the year                                     25.5       46.9      53.8      60.1       82.3      88.9       95.4      103.6
Fixed aseese  as of December 31                                 446.3      527.3     606.6     857.4      966.6   1,083.8   1,232.8   1,829.9
Average gross fixed asaets in operation                         341.2      486.8     567.0      732.0     912.0   1,025.2   1,158.3   1,531.4
Accumulated depreciation: 
Accumulated depreciation as of January 1                         74.8 /   92.5       118.5      149.6     188.0      235.5     290.4      353.4
Depreciation during the year                                      9.6       16.3      19.0       23.6      29.5       33.2      37.4       45.9
Revaluation during the year                                       8.1        9.7      12.1       14.8      18.0       21.7      25.6       29.7
Accueulated depreciation as of December 31                       92.5      118.5     149.6      188.0     235.5      290.4     353.4      429.0
Average accumulated depreciation                                 83.7      105.5     134.1      168.8     211.8      263.0     321.9      391.2
Net fixed asaete in operation:
Net fixed assets as of January 1                                161.3      353.8     408.8     457.0      669.4      731.1     793.4      879.4
Net fixed asaete  s of December 31                              353.8      408.8     457.0      669.4     731.1      793.4     879.4   1,400.9
Average net fixed  saetEs in operation (1)                      257.5      381.3     432.9      563.2     700.2      762.2     836.4   1,140.2
Working capital:
Operating revenue                                                61.2       89.4     107.6      130.4     151.6      173.8     193.2      203.4
k of operating revenue (2)                                       15.3       22:4      26.9      32.6       37.9      43.5       48.3       50.9
Rate base: (1) +(2)                                                272.8    403.7       459.8      595.8     738.1      805.7     884.7   1,191.1
Weighted average revaluation rates (%)               10              10.8      10.5      10.2        9.9        9.6       9.2        8.8       8.4
Weighted average depreciation ratee (%)               6               3.2       3.2        3.2       3.1        3.1       3.1        3.1       2.9
2/ See notes 13, 14.
~a McKy Richa study of August 1976.                                                                                                                                >
1  Capitalization of Bayano hydroplant.
B  Capitallzation of Estrella-Valles hydroplanta.                                                                                                                 lo
/  Capitalization ofthe Fortuna hydroplant.
May   1977



INSTITMO DE RECURSOS YlIDADLICOS Y ELYCTRBIICACOSN (<nW)
PANAh
Actl ad P-oO...d T.cos A-lílc-ble to Loc--t-rm Debt to 1983
toan A-ooct
(tu militan                                              A-orti..tl-o
omito of np-                           Cruco PerImo           Poeid
C..dít-r                                                                        PUrDO@e                  LD  D D te                           C...,c,^plicublo  cr-  0 nmc  rmd    yea rcad
FOFYIGN LOANS - ENFTrNG0
TDe Eeqitabl Life AmUracce Oocitty of the Ultcud Ste.ro                  Arqairod frae F & L             3/1973                5,9            U0$                    -               10-0                     1a
bttek of USA 2138                                                        Aoqílrud fro F  L               11/1964               4.7            US$                    -                7-6                 5-3/41                       _
G e nrl Electric Co.                                                     Aoqired fr-e F & L              4/1969                0.7            US$                    -               10-0               1% over ¡h- oI/                _
IBRD - Loen 322-PAF                                                      La YegoSde hydropleot           11/1962               4.0           U0$ eqtrioa0t 5_0                       20-0                 5-1/2%                3/4 of 11
Groppa Imdootnte Elutt-o-e-ccaicho Por Ilieutí AI1Eotoro,
SYA (ElE) 61-66                                                        la ti-  11 Ste-  plant          10/1966               6.7            ESS                   3-0               9-0                     61
OSE 123-69                                                               Lee Mio  lEí St-e  picot       7/1969                4.8            OS$                   3-0               9-0                      61
JIF  - Loan 661-PAN                                                      Le  ho-  IV Stea  aad
Rayano hydroplíate              3/1970              42.0            US$ aqminsleet        6-0              19-0                      7%                314 of aI
XOOtOdk of USA 4308                                                      Efia_ ditel .. tf..
tr--iolon  cd dirtribotiom 4/1973                    3.8           00$                   4-6               3-6                      6                 1/12  f 11
The Cha-e Mohctto B3nk, N.A. 4308                                       EOren ¿tecol omit.,
oroCneieecn .0d dtetrtbuthtn 4/1973                  3.8            00$                   1-0               3-0                12 roer G               1/2 cf 1
IIRD - Loen 948-PAN                                                      Tr--.niio  eapcoeioo            12/1973              30.0            WS$ equielect         4-0              16-0                 7-1/4%                 3/4 of a%
E~~bauk of USA 4042                                                      Trecotef--ia  decíSn            2/1974                1.3            009                   4-0               3-0                      6%         3/    1/2 of ia
¡be Ffret NOti---I Bnik cf t o ton 4542                                  Tr=ei-oD  d- iíg                2/1974                3.5            00$                   1-6               1-6                1/2 nf 1% ce r71        1/2 of 11
Torre  JeIodc, S.A.                                                      Byan D ooooroion to-era    1/1974                     0.3            13$                   0-6               7-6                      65          q
..  cf A-"fc. CoC orttun                                                3Byano moet ovoroun.             7/1975 10                            15$          2_         6               3-0                1.7/ hS r    r           1' /4 ef 1%
Ab_goa  S.A  - Wentngho-. S.A. 5ayno ebootr-oehcotc eqolp  2/1974                                                             43.1            Pota  oqutrclont    -                  10-6                  71/45
Bank uf A rc    cscrptl                                                  Bayano .o.t o3erron             2/1976                d.0           U0$                    2-0               58                 1-3/41 eet        V     3/4 of a                                          ,¡
Skaodirvt-.ka V1B 1300                                                   Eetrelie-Valn  hydropl.ut    12/1975                 12.2            Sdieh k-ro-or         3-6               3-ó                1-3/41 ear IRON'
Ok~edtirfka 1341                                                         fhtlnll loc Aydroplct    3/1976                     20.0            00$                   3-8                3.6               1-7/13 ovar LIS         3/4 nf a1
Sk-cdip uctk. SCG 1342                                                   Eetrela-reíiee hydraploct    12/1975                180.0           Sidiíh krnnor          7-0               7-0                   8.955                3/4  f 11
Cosnercinl (acAo ca-lccrtio                                              Worflro capital                 12/1976              25.0            00$                   2-0               5-0                1-7/68  ore  LD0oj      3/4 of i                1. 35 _
LOCAL 0AN5 - EXISTIMO
CoJo do Segur  Smnía1                                                    tote   yLoe poacio  píen        6/1968                 Ž.8 2/4                            15-E               N.A1k                    41
Tha  trt d fuatonul Bank of Chnego                                        Bayano tr    iseton            411974                 2.1           US8                    2-0               5-0               1-1/41 ee 
Banco U.to, C.A.                                                          Factur-  faad                  3/1975                235            Polt-are-             2-0               8.0                8-1/13 ere  L     J
POSIGN L068 - PROPMEDI
EO            -                                                           FrrtuD-                        1977                 42.0             00$ *qotraleet        3-6              13-6                     9'                 3/4 of ai
IDB  & v nelc T-ruet Fuod                                                 Fortunt                        1977                 73 0            0$$ equticalt          6-6              18-6                   8.6X                l-1./45%                3     -ttf   i
IDO - Slppl_.tury ltn  of credit                                          F-rtuDa                        1977                 27.0            0S$                    2-8 '-0                                  10%                 3/4 cf 11               10 cf 1i  -E-tí   fo
íoPp li-t                                                                 F-orlulca       --eílnc         1975                21.6            81$                   4-0§/             18-0                    10%                 3M4 ofIt
Bupplt rc                                                                Trníloeln 1979                  1977                 28.0            0S$                    2-0              10-0                     10%                "' nf 1%
Supplitre r                                                              Trf--cion  ad dietotbotioí  1977                       3.8            8s$                    -                5-0                    10%                 3/4 nf 11
Boppltere  lI                                                             Tr- .a.iOon c-d diatribotiOo 1979                     6.9            OS                     -                5-0                     101                3/4 of f1
Supoltor. fli                                                            Tranemictor -d dlstr"ibtion 1982                     10.3            0s                     -                5-0                     10X                3/4  f a1
Comnercitl                                                               Workikg cnpitml                 1977                   3.0            us$                                     5-0                      0                 3/4 of 1%
Coó reoríal                                                                   100caki.g   pital          1978                   7.0            U3$                    -                2-0                      3                 3/14  f 1%
Tdrrcim1                                                                 OocWiog copIt.1                 1979                  4.7            u3$                     -                3-0                     10%                3/4 of 1%
Y   E to af 1%  to-r 3nok of Aiertcn/e prime rato
Rato of 1% ore  abane Moottn/o prim  rato.
3/REte of 1/2  f 1  oreo Frnít Niatn . /.  plen reto .
2 I di.ated octe aovr Londao icteobuk offer Ente.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
Esticuted terco
toIR      fo i.   gtiitcíg tith tho GIE-SVECA co-a-rtium  traly nad vctrrlu. the  coct o    1atoluotod biddeo; tho fiíncaiag termo might bo coco fbvor2blo  thno th..o dOt.iled it this mtt-tno.t bít ínmo  the ohb ~ae- are -ot
crpectod to pro.duce  igoifi...t diff---toeo0  they Act  ot  rer irradueed it tío f.amocltl fr-j-taraon.
Tthe Back htu  íofored IlhF that it cauld be proparod to ac-pt 2 y--ro uf gran,. nc thio  -.IAd tlt off-c-t IEdE fB-a--  olgnificuntly.
0  Etticatrd binoo no of 12/31'76. IhRE10 reci-        c   le rh 1 p po-     l 710  to drt l-  -m-ot --d timing of 1tr  ablígntloto
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Actual and Forecast Long-Term Debt Statements 1975-1983
(in millions of balboas)
Actual                                               Forecast
1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
FOREIGN LOANS - EXISTING
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States                     3.0        2.6       2.2        1.8        1.4        1.0        0.6        0.2        -
Eximbank of USA 2138                                                          3.2        2.7       2.2        1.7        1.2        0.7        0.2        -          _
General Electríc Co.                                                         0.3        0.2        0.1        -          -          -          -          -          -
IBRD - Loan 322-PAN                                                           2.8       2.6        2.4        2.2        2.0        1.8        1.6        1.4        1.1
Gruppo Industrie Elettro-Meccaniche Per Impiantí All'Estero, SPA
(GIE)  61-66                                                              2.5        1.7        0.9                   -          -          -          -          -
CIE 123-69                                                                    3.1        2.6       2.1        1.5        0.9        0.3        -          -          -
IBRD - Loan 661-PAN                                                          36.4      40.9       39.8       38.6       37.3       35.8       34.2       32.5       30.8
Eximbank of USA 4308                                                          3.1        3.1        2.3        1.3       0.5        -          -          -          -
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 4308                                           1.5        0.3        -          -         -          -          -          -          -
IBRD - Loan 948-PAN                                                           9.8      23.0       30.1       29.1       28.0       26.9       25.7       24.4       23.1
Eximbank of USA 4542                                                          1.0        1.3       1.3        0.8        0.3        -          -          -          -
The Firet National Bank of Boston 4542                                        2.7        2.0        1.0       0.6        0.2        -          -          -          -
Torres Mexicanas, S.A.                                                        0.3        0.2       0.1        -          -          -          -          -          -
Bank of America Consortium                                                   10.0      10.0       10.0        8.0        6.0        4.0        2.0        -          -
Abengoa, S.A. - Westinghouse, S.A.                                            1.5        3.4        3.0        2.6        2.2       1.8         1.4        1.0        0.6
Westinghouse Electric Corporation                                             0.4        0.2        0.1        -          -          -          -          -          -
Bank of America Consortium                                                    -          8.0       8.0         6.2       4.4        2.6        0.8        -          -
Skandinaviska VBB 1300                                                        -          1.5       1.9         2.3       2.3        1.5        0.7        -          -
Skandinaviska 1341                                                            -        17.1       40.8       57.1       58.0       52.3       46.6       39.9       33.8
Skandinaviska SCG 1342
Comercial ,anks consortium                                                   -         25.0       25.0       25.0       20.0       15.0       10.0        5.0        -
Other                                                                         0.5        -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -
LOCAL LOANS - EXISTING
Caja de Seguro Social                                                         2.7        2.8        2.9        3.0        3.1       3.2         3.3        3.4        2.8
The First National Bank of Chicago                                            2.1        1.9        1.7        1.5        1.3       -           -          -          -
Banco Union, C.A.                                                             2.5        2.5        2.3        2.0       1.7        1.4         1.1       0.8         0.5
Other                                                                         0.4        0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3         0.2        0.1
TOTAL EXISTING                                                         89.8      155.9      180.5      185.6      171.1      148.6      128.5      108.8       92.8
FOREIGN LOANS - PROPOSED
IBRD                                                                          -          -          0.2        0.5       3.2       11.6        19,5       28.4       32.4
IDB & Venezuelan Trust Fund                                                   -          -          -          0.9       4.6       19.5        39.7      52.0        70.0
IDB - Supplementary Line of Credit                                            -          -          0.6       20.3      25.1       21.2        17.3       13.4        9.5
Suppliers                                                                     -          -          -          2.2        7.1      10.3        13.3       14.5       17.2
Suppliers                                                                     -          -         10.2       24.0       25.2       22.4       19.6       16.8       14.0
Suppliers 1                                                                   -          -          0.8        2.2        1.4        0.7        -          -          -
Suppliers II                                                                  -          -          -          -          0.8        1.7        2.8        1.4        -
Supplíers III                                                                 -          -          --                               -          -          0.9        2.3
Commercial                                                                               -          2.7        2..1       1.5        0.9        0.3        -          -
Conmmercial                                                                   -          -          -          5.1        1,9        -          -          -          _
Commercial                                                                    -          -          _          -          3.3        2.0        0.7        -          -
TOTAL PROPOSED                                                         -          -         14.5       57.3       74.1       90.3      113,2      127.4       145.4
TOTAL                                                                 89.8      155.9      195.0      242.9      245.2      238.9      241,7      236.2       238.2
May 1977



UMlTIIO Di 10WUD8 BUSAUlITOS Y E¡0WC AMl    <1
Forecesí Diaealmt esd Aortt;ation itraxlta  lS74-lS1
POBtIGN 10620 - EXISSTING
Iba Equitabíe Lif beAaurbnce Society - diebureaní                              -          -          -          -          -                                0.2 
Ib. Eqofteble Lite Afeurance Bcciety - asiortitation0.                                    04         04         04         04         04         04         02
Extizbank of USA 2138 - dieburmnt                                              -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Eximbank of USA 2138 - arortisttion                                            0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.2        -
General Electric Co. - dieburo~t                                                    -                     -          -                -          -          -
Gan*trl Electric Co. - arrtieto                                                0.1        0.1        0.1
Ib8D - Loan 322-PAN -debr           t                                          -          -          ---n
IBRD - Loan 322-PAN -  ortiíation                                             0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.3
Gruppo Industrie Elettro-MIecafiche Per Iopiantí AIl'Estero,
SPA (GIE) 61-66 - diehutsement                                               -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Gruppo Induetrie Elettro-Meccniche Per 1Ipiantí All'EgtetO,
sPA (GIE) 61-66 -  eortitation                                              0.8         0.8       0.9
GIE 123-69 - disbursient                                                       -          -          -
GIE 123-69 -  .crtíiatioc                                                      0.5        0.5        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.3
18R  - Loen 661-PM  - diebore eant                                            5.6        -          -          -          -          -
IBRD - Lon 661-PA  -   Oriztion                                                1.1        1.1        1.2        1.3        1.5        1.6        1.7        1.7
Exiobhnk of USA 4308 - diaburseent                                                  -                -          -          -          -          -          -
Exiobnk of USA 4308 - aortization                                              -          0.8        1.0        0.8        0.5        -          -          -
The Chase Manhattan Bank,  .A. 4308 - dishbrsement                                        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 4308 -  Gortization                             1.2        0.3        -          -          -          -          -          -
IBRD - Loen 948-PA  - disbursement                                           13.2         7.1        -          -          -          -          -          -
IRRD - Loan 948-PAM - mortisatio.                                              -          -          1.0        1.1        1.1        1.2        1.3        1.3
Exinb-nk of USA 4542 - disbursenent                                           0.3         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
ExSiobank of USA 4542 - aortiatíion                                            -          -          0.5        0.5        03         -          -          -
mh  First National Bank of boctio 4542 - disbureement                          0.3        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Thb  First Nationel Bank of Hoeton 4542 - aortisation                          1.0        1.0        0.4        0.4        0.2
Torree Mexicanas  5A. - disburseent                                                                             -          -          -
Torres Mexicanas, S.A. - awortisation                                          0.1        0.1        0.1        -
Bank of Americe Coneortinm  - disborsee.ent                                    -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Bsnk of Americ  Consortiura -  ortieation                                      -                     2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
Abengos, S.A. - Weetinghous.e  S.A. - disbursement                             2.1                   -          -          -          -                     -
Abengos., S.A. - Weetinghose, S.A. - srtisation                                0.2        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Westinghbo.e  Electric Corporation - disburset                                 -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Westinghouse Electric Corporation - sYortisation                               0.2        0.1        0.1        -
Benk of Americe Consortits  - disboroeaent                                    8.0         -          -
Bank cf Amarice Consortium  -  norti.ation                                     -          -          1.8        1.8        1.8        1.8        0.8
Skendinaviska VBB 1300 - disbursenent                                          1.5        0.4        0.4        0.4                   -                -
Skacdinsviska VBB 1300 - -ortication                                           -          -          -          0.4        0.8        0.8        007
Sk.adioaviska 1341 - diabursezent          )                                  17.1       23.7       16.3        3.8        -          -          -
Skandinavlska 1341 - aortieation            )                                  -          -          -          2.9        5.7        5.7        6.7        6.1
Skandiínvioka SCG 1342 - diaburselrent
Skiadinavisha SCG 1342 - sGortisation
to --ercial btnis -orsor-tim - 8istnrsenect                                   25.0        -
Com, erci ta bsik  corsortlum -   tistion                                      -          -                     5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0
Other - dioborse.oent
Other -  -cortization                                                          0.5
LOCAL LOANS - EXISTING
Caja de Seguro Social - disburseoent                                           0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
Caja de Seguro Social - soortication                                           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          0.7
The First National Bank of Chicago - disburseent                               -          -          -          -          -          -
The Firot N.ation.l Bank of Chicago - amortication                             0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2        1.3        -
Sanco Union, C.A. - disburse     t                                             -          -          -          -          -          -
Sanco lnien, C.A. - a-ortiatíion                                               -          0.2        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3
uther   di.burseoent
Other - amorti.ation                                                           0.1
TOTAL EXISTING - disburses,ent                                          73.2       31.3       16.8        4.3        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1
- awortisation                                          7.1         6.7      11.7        18.8       22.6       20.2       19.8       16.1
FOREIGN LOANS - PROPOSED
IERD - disbursemení                                                            -          0.2        0.3        2.7        8.4       11.1       12.1        7.2
IBRD -    .srtiístion                                                          -          -          -          -          -          3.2        3.2        3.2
IDB 4 Venesuelan Trust Fund - dicburse,cent                                    -          -          0.9        3.7       14.9       20.2       12.3       19.0
IOB & Venesuelan Trust Fund - aortistion-                                                 -
IDB - Suppleientary Line of Credit - disburaeraent                             -         0.6        19.7        6.7        -          -          -
IDB - Supplenentary Line of Credit - a~ortizstion                     -                   -          -          1.9        3.9        3.9        3.9        3.9
suppliers - disborsmeent                                                       -          -          2.2        4.9        3.2        3.0        3.4        4,9
Suppliers - anortication                                                       -          -          -          -          -          -          2.2        2.2
Suppliera - disbursement                                                       -         10.2       13.8        4.0        -          -          -          -
suppliers -  ~ortísation                                                       -          -          -          2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8
Suppliers 1 - disburseent                                                      -          1.6        2.2a
Síppliers 1 -   ortíeation                                                     -          0.8        0.8        0.8        0.7        0.7             -
suppliers I  - disburcs,z.nt                                                   -          -          -          2.1        2.3        2.5
Suppliers II -  ~ortitation                                                    -          -          -          1.3        1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4
Suppliero III - disbursement                                                   -          -          -          -          -          -          2.9        3.5
Suppliera III - aortisaion                                                     -          -          -          -          -          -          2.0        2.1
Corsercial - diibursenent                                                       -        3.0          -
Commercisi -  --sortization                                                     -        0.3         0.6         o.6        o.6        0.6        0.3
COommrciel - dicwrstesent                                                       _         -           7.0
Cor..ercial - aowrtization                                                      _         -           1.9        3.2        1.9
Comrercial - dieburaesent                                                       _                     -          430        -          _          _          -
Comzercial - amortization                                                       -         -           -          0.7        1.3       11233       0.7
TOTAL PROPOSEF  - disburaement                                           _        15.6        46.1       28.1       26.8       36.8       30.7       34.6
- amortization                                           -        1.1          3.3       11.3       12.6       13.9       16.5       15.6
TOTAL - dlibursement                                                    73.2      46.9        62.9       32.4        28.9      36.9       30.8      34.7
- amortization                                                    7.1        7.8        15.0       30.1       35.2      34.1       36.3       31.7
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Forecast Interest Charged to Construction 1976-19t3
(in milliona of balboas)
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
FOREIGN LOANS - EXISTING
IBRD - Loan 661-PAN                                                          2.9        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
IBRD - Loan 948-PAN                                                          1.4        1.9                   -          _          -          -          _
Bank of America Consortium                                                   0.9        -          _          _          _          _          _
Abengoa, S.A. - Westinghouse, S.A.                                            0.2        -         -          -          -          -          -          -
Bank of America Consortium                                                   0.5        -          -          -          _          _          _          _
Skandinaviska VBB 1300                                                        0.1       0.2        0.2        0.2        -          -          -          -
Skandinaviska 1341                                                    )       O8         2.6       4.4        5.2        -          -          -          _
Skandinaviska SCG 1342                                                )
LOCAL LOANS - EXISTING
The First National Bank of Chicago                                            0.2        -          -         -          _          _          _          _
Banco Uníon, C.A.                                                             0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.1        0.1        0.1        -
TOTAL EXISTING                                                          7.2        4.9        4.8        5.6        0.1        0.1        0.1        -
FOREIGN LOANS - PROPOSED
IBRD                                                                         -          0.3        0.3        0.4        0.9        1.3        2.0        -
IDB& Venezuelan Trust Fund                                                    -         0.9        0.9        1.1        1.6        3.0        4.1        -
IDB - Supplementary Line of Credit                                           -          0.2        1.2        2.2        2.3        1.9        1.5       1.0
Suppliers                                                                     -          -         0.1        0.5        0.9        1.6        2.0        -
Suppliers                                                                     -         0.5        1.7        2.6        -          -          -          -
Suppliers 1                                                                   -          -         0.3        -          -          -          _
Suppliers 11                                                                  -                    -          0.1        0.3        0.5        -          -
Suppliers III                                                                 -          -          -         -          -          -          0.1        0.5
TOTAL PROPOSED                                                           -         1.9        4.5        6.9        6.0        8.3        9.7        1.5
TOTAL                                                                   7.2        6.8        9.3       12.5        6.1        8.4        9.8        1.5
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHm)
PANAMA
Forecast Interest Charaed to Income 1976-1983
(in millions of balboas)
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983
FOREIGN LOANS - EXISTING
The Equitable Life Aseurance Society of the United States                   0.2       0.2        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1        -         -
Eximbank of USA 2138                                                        0.2       0.2        0.2       0.1        0.1        -          -         -
General Electric Co.                                                        -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
IBRD - Loan 322-PAN                                                         0.2       0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1
Gruppo Industrie Elettro-M4eccaniche Per Impianti All'Estero,
SPA (GIE) 61-66                                                           0.2       0.1        0.1        -         -          -          -         -
GIE 123-69                                                                  0.2       0.2        0.2       0.1        0.1        0.1        -         -
IBRD - Loan 661-PAN                                                         -         2.9        2.7       2.7        2.6        2.5        2.4       2.2
Eximbank of USA 4308                                                        0.2       0.2        0.1        0.1       -          -          -         -
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 4308                                         D.1        -         -          -         -          -          -         -
IBRD - Loan 948-PAN                                                         -         -          2.0       2.1        2.0        1.9        1.8       1.7
Eximbank of USA 4542                                                        0.1       0.1        0.1        -         -          -          -         -
The First National Bank of Boston 4542                                      0.2       0.2        0.2        0.1       -          -          -          -
Torres Mexicanas, S.A.                                                      -          -         -          -         _          _
Bank of America Consortium                                                  -         0.9        0.8        0.6       0.3        0.2        -          -
Abengoa, S.A. - Westinghouse, S.A.                                          -          0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.1        0.1        0.1
Westinghouse Electric Corporation                                           _          _         _          _          _         _          _          _
Bank of America Consortium                                                  -          0.7       0.6        0.5        0.3       0.2        -          -
Skandinaviska VBB 1300                                                      -          -         -          -         0.2        0.1        -          -
Skandinaviska 1341                                                   )-                          -          -         5.0        4.5        4.0        3.4
Skandinaviska 1342                                                   )
hBS Finance Corporation                                                     -          2.3       2.3        2.0        1.6       1.1        0.7        0.2
LOCAL LOANS - EXISTING
Caja de Seguro Social                                                       0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1
The First National Bank of Chicago                                          -          0.2       0.2        0.1        0.1        -         -          -
Banco Union, C.A.                                                           _          _         _          _          _         _
TOTAL EXISTING                                                         1.7        8.6       9.9        8.9       12.8      11.0        9.2        7.8
FOREIGN IOANS - PROPOSED
IBRD                                                                        -          -         -          -          -          -         -          2.5
IDB & Venezuelan Trust Fund                                                 -          -         -          -          -          -         -          5.3
IDB- Supplementary Line of Credit                                           -          -         -          -          -          -         -          1.1
Suppliers                                                                   -          -         -          -          -          -         -          2.0
Suppliers                                                                   -          -          -         -          2.5        2.2        2.0       1.7
Suppliers I                                                                 -          -          -         0.4        0.2        0.1       -          -
Suppliers II                                                                -          -          -         -          -          -         0.3        0.1
Suppliers III                                                               _          _          _         _          -                                                       x
Commecial,                                                                  -          0.3       0.2        0.2        0.1        0.1       -          -
Commercial                                                                  -          -         o.6        0.2        0.1        -         -          -
Commercial                                                                  -          -          _         0.4        0.3        0.1       0.1        -
TOTAL PROPOSED                                                         -          9.3       0.8        1.2        3.2        2.5        2.4      12.7
TO7ZIL                                                                 1.7        8.9      10.7       10.1       16.0       13.5       11.6      20.5
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICAfCION (IRHE)
PANANA
Inventment and Financiín ProRrme 1977-1983
(ín milliowl of balboes)
Propooed prolecta
Distrib.tion
Onmotna Proiect                                                                  Rral
Third         Estrella-                               Tranemiaf 3on        Electrif icati                   other                          Future  1
Prolect          Valles             La Fortuna            1979                 an *d others              Expenditurea         Total £J ZPro¡  téS
Conotruction *een~djturos    - local              5.8            18.4                  71.3               12.3                   61.9                                        170.7            46 .6          217.3
- fore1gia             8.4            37.3                 150.0                18.7                  U3.9                                        328,3            467.7          376.0
Intereat during contruction                      1.9             13.7                  31.3                5.6                     1.8                         55.3 55.3
Incrcase in caeh balancea                                                                                                                                    19.5             19.5                            19.5
Oth.r .up.Mee--____6.                                                                                                                                                           .
Totol Il euir_nte                          16.1             69.4                 253,6               36.6                  137
iíaciea Sourca
lorsowIaei:
Exieting loma7:
IleD (94U-141)                              7.1                                                                                                                           7.1                             7.1
B.deh grouv                                                 45.0                                                                                                         45.0                            45.0
Proposed:                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.
IBiD                                                                              42.0                                                                                   42.0                            4.
IDE - FIV - Suppleuntíry line                                                     9B.o                                                                                   98.0                            98.0
Eu,pplierí                                                                        21.6               28.0                    17.8                       í-.67- - 4                                       67.4
Couuercial                                                                                                                                               101464,
Total Borrviynge                             7.1                                 1612735                                                                                                                273 5
Govermeat Contribut/               ,              1.0             11.1                 35.0                 2.2                    0.2                                        419.5            2              49.5
Oovern.ent Subsidiu*~I      6                     0.4             1.9                    6.7                0.9                    7.0                                        16.9                 
Net luterogl caab ¡enratiorj                                     114                    03 *1  -39.                                                                                          9-.             -]L
2J  Project to be ce-letad .arly la 1979; IRHE ¡a negotiatíng with sueceseil bidder.
2   Other proJecte to be copletad ÉWnÉ   tha períad 1977-1984.
7Otur0 pTWseta: Col et  U-tí 8 FU  ¡tíll verYough. Expenditures etart in 1980; feeaibility 5tudies not yet carxied out. Projects ehould be completed in 1987.
lncludas   qt  USM11   ~elien  iw t _finu~  by IDE.
2   hlaie ths 1976-I9FD a         t P.a|%
9/Díwtribute a~  prb~et util s*qired fíinscing is sStisf'ied.
Includes -th  O ieation iwrovement and training program.
May 1977



ANNEX X
Attachment 13
Page 1 of 4
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
Income Statement: revenues
1.        Sales growth was considered at the rates indicated in Annex I, Attach-
ment 3. Revenues were project so as to reflect the agreed upon minimum rates
of return of 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978, and 8.75% in 1979 and thereafter.
Income Statements: expenses
2.        Operating expenses (excluding fuel) were calculated for each operating
unit based on Stone & Webster's estimates, which consider the expansion program
requirements, and modified to take into account historical data and trends;
materials, which are about 20% of operating expenses, were escalated at a
constant 10% inflation rate, and labor, with an 80% weight, at a constant 7%,
resulting in a 7.6% weighted average inflation rate. In 1976, IRHE had a total
staff of 3589, including construction workers. Social benefits amount to 51%
on regular salaries and 29% on overtime.. IRHE has increased its salaries by 5%
every year in current terms over the period 1974-76. In order to hold down
salaries, the Government has decreed, effective January 1977, a wage freeze for
the public sector.  The forecast labor costs are based on aggregating detailed
projections for each organizational unit. On the basis of these projects, IRHE's
staff is expected to grow at 3.3% on average and salaries at 1% per annum in
real terms. The following table summarizes the forecast data on labor foree and
associated costs:
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983  Average
annual
Number of employees                                                                  growth
(excluding construction
and supervision)          2,609  2,719  2,808  2,907  3,008  3,074  3,154  3,281
Increase in personnel (%)   -       4.2    3.3    3.5    3.5    2.2    2.6    4.0   3.3
Average labor cost (in
thousands of balboas)    7,359  8,054  8,547  9,287 10,073 10,930 11,889 12,435   8.0
Average labor cost (in
thousands in 1975balboas) 6,764  6,849  6,762  6,833  6,918  7,015  7,132  6,974   1.0
Total personnel cost
(in millions of balboas)  19.2   21.9   24.0   27.0   30.3   33.6   37.5   40.8  11.3
3.        Fuel expenses were calculated by IRHE for each generating plant according
to an economic load dispatch study which minimized the annual thermal generation.
The fuel costs for 1977 were obtained escalating by 10% the average fuel prices
delivered at each plant for 1976 (ranging from US$10.60 for Bunker C to US$20.90
for diesel per barrel); for 1978-83, the 1977 prices were escalated at inflation
rates decreasing from 8% in 1977 to 7% in 1983. Decreases in fuel expenses in
1979-80 and in 1983 reflect the commissioning of the La Estrella and Los Valles
and the Fortuna hydro plants, respectively.



ANNEX X
Attachment 13
Page 2 of 4
4.         In the past, IRRE has bought some amounts of energy mrainly from  the
Panama Canal Co. through an emergency supply contract. The forecast purchases
of energy are negligible.
5.    IRHE uses the straight-line method for computing depreciation; the
average depreciation rate for 1975 was 3.3% which is in accordance with accepted
industry standards. This rate decreased to about 3.2% in 1976 after Bayano
entered into oDeration, and is expected to further decrease to 3.1% in 1979 when
La Estrella and Los Valles are commissioned, and to 2.9% in 1983, the comnis-
sioning date for Fortuna. The above rates have been applied on the annual
average revalued assets in operation (para. 10).
6.    The Government provides IRHE with a subsidy of 9.75% on its fuel purchases
which is deducted directly from the oil company's invoices.  This subsidy is
included in Other Income together with some minor income that the utility derives
from nonreimbursable line extension fees.
7.    Interest payable has been projected accordíng to the agreed upon schedules
for each loan; in the cases of variable rates a constant 10% flat interest
was used throughout; in the near past the bases for these variable rates have
changed widely and a total 10% interest charge seems reasonable. IRHE increases
the cost of its construction in progress, and decreases accordingly its interest
expense, with a 9% imputed cost of capital which is a practice accepted for
electrical utilities.
Sources and Applications of Funds
8.    The increase in noncash working capital was computed considering the
following:
Accounts receivable:  declines from the 1976 level of 76 days to
two months of billíng by 1977 and remains at
this level thereafter.
Inventory-materials:  increases from the 1976 level of 1.7 months of
operating and maintenance expenses to 2 months
by 1977.
-fuel:        increases from its 1976 low level of 21 days
to reach two months of fuel consumption by
1978 and remains at this level thereafter.
Accounts payable:       declines from the 1976 level of 1.1 times
inventories to 50% of inventories by 1979
and levels off thereafter.
The forecast noncash working capital is detailed as follows:



ANNEX X
Attachment 13
Page 3 of 4
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Current Assets
Receivables              13.0   14.9   17.9   21.7   25.3   29.0   32.2   33.9
Fuel                      1.5    2.0    5.0    4.8    4.6    6.8    6.4    6.2
Materíals                 2.5    3.3    3.7    4.2    4.7    5.3    5.9    6.5
Totals                17.0   20.2   26.6   30.7   34.6   41.1   44.5   46.6
Current Liabilities
Payables                  4.5    4.1    6.8    4.5    4.6    5.9    6.1    4.3
Net noncash working
capital                12.5   16.1   19.8   26.2   30.0   35.2   38.4   42.3
Changes in net non-
cash working capital   8.6    3.6    3.7    6.4    3.8    5.2    3.2    3.9
Minimum cash balance requirements were estimated at 15 days of cash operating
expenses.
Balance Sheet
9.        IRHE revalued its fixed assets as of December 31, 1975; the original
cost of gross assets of B/134 1/ million was raised to B/236 million, a change
of 76%, and the accumulated depreciation of B/39 1/ million at historical cost
was raised to B/75 million, a 92% increase.  The method          prepared by the
local consultant firm McKay, Richa y Asociados, S.A., revalues the material
and equipment component with the Handy Whitman Index of Public Utility
Construction Costs (published by the Baltimore-based (USA) firm Whitman,
Requardt and Associates), and the labor component of civil works with the actual
labor costs for construction paid by IRRE. The accumulated depreciation was
computed by considering the actual years of use of the assets over their
estimated life; the latter was taken from a study on IRHE's depreciation
policies prepared by the American consultant firm Stone and Webster Overseas
Consultants, Inc.; this study, based on IRHE's experience and operation and
maintenance practices, recommended a slight increase in some of the depreciation
rates; these rates are the ones currently in use in IRHE (para. 6). IRME will
continue revaluing its fixed assets on an annual basis using the above
method;      it will also revalue major project items during their construction
period; the rates used in the forecast are a weighted average of those used for
escalating the various project components of IRHE's expansion program.
10.       For capitalization and rate base purposes IRHE's practice of charging
construction in progress with a 9% imputed cost of capital was considered
(para. 8). As of December 31, 1976, IRHE's weighted average cost of its
outstanding long-term debt is estimated at 8% and its marginal cost of debt is
estimated at about 9.3% (taking variable rates at a flat 10% in both cases>,
considering a 1977-1983 8.5% average cost of debt and an average IRHE and
Government financing of about 70%, the 9% imputed cost of capital implies a
9.7% opportunity cost of IRHE's own capital, which is considered acceptable
(Annex X, para. 11).
1/ These figures differ from those shown in the Balance Sheet due to the
gas operations assets which are fully depreciated.



ANNEX X
Attachment 13
Page 4 of 4
11.       After IRHE's take-over of Fuerza y Luz, the accounting records
have been gradually deteríorating; this ií particularly so
in the area of current and other assets and liabilities; the historical
composítion of these has been rearranged and some of the figures had to
be estimated. Other liabilities as of December 31, 1975 included an
undetermined amount of long-term debt; other assets include B/4.7 million
of construction materials previously considered as part of current assets
inventories; these two items were kept constant even though they should
change as a result of current efforts for straightening out IRHE's records.
12.       The Government equity contributions are in accordance with the
1976-1980 National Development Plan and were confirmed by the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy during appraisal.
13.       IRHE  proposes to continue its Panama City gas operations, on
which it incurs a small loss (of the order of US$200,000 per annum). This
loss has been shown as a cash outflow in the Sources and Applications of
Funds. Revenues and expenses of gas operations have not been included
in the forecast income statements, and the losses are shown as a direct
charge to surplus in the balance sheet (see Attachment 5).
14.       IRHE's contract with Pancanal provides for supply of up to
210 GWh/year, with a maximum demand of 30 MW. Charges are as follows:
US¿          per kWh
US$          per kW /month
minimum charge:  US$      /month
These charges are    readjustable based on IRHE's fuel, labor and material
costs. They exceed the estimated cost of supplying the Pancanal demand,
based on IRHE's present system, and produce a margin over operating costs
which is sufficient to cover the recovery of the capítal investnent and to
produce a rate of return ín excess of the opportunity cost of capital in
Panama (estimated at 11%).
May 1977



ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT (FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
PANAMA
Sensitivity Analysis
General
1.        A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the effects of
adverse changes of the critical parameters: sales and revenues, operatíng
costs, construction costs, and inflation rates. The financial projections
included in Annex X were prepared for the base case assumptions. The most
important indexes for the base case and the various alternatives are detailed
on Attachment 1. Since additional financial requirements caused by the
changed situation would have to be covered by tariff increases or additional
borrowing, the impact of adverse events is measured by:
(a) the change in tariff increases; and
(b) the increase in borrowings (with the consequent decline
in debt service coverage)
required to finance the full additional requirements. Borrowings are assumed
to be on commercial terms, 10% interest, 5 years maturity without grace and
include the amounts necessary to cover the debt service of these added
borrowings. The sensitivityanalysis highlights the importance of post-1977
tariff increases and the stability of the average revenue per kWh.
Alternative 1:  Sales and Revenues
2.        In the base case the sales were projected at an equivalent compound
annual rate of growth of 11.8% for the period 1977-83. Under alternative 1
figures were developed assuming that sales would grow at a 1.5% cumulative rate
less than in the base case, or at 10.3% rate of growth. Financial gaps appear
as a result of reduced sales in the period 1977-83 which, if fully financed
by tariff increases would require tariffs to grow at a 5.6% annual rate
(compared to 4.3% p.a. in the base case).
3.        Since IRHE is committed to certain minimum rates of return, their
attainment under this alternative would be sufficient to cover the gap and
no additional borrowings would be required.
Alternative 2: Increased Construction Program Inflation Rates
4.        The construction costs were recomputed using inflation rates 1%
higher than those used for the base case. This alternative shows the need
for increased financing requirements of US$30 million in 1977-83. Assuming
that the gap would be filled with IRHE's own resources, rates of return
slightly higher than the minimum rates would result and tariff increases
equivalent to a 4.7% compound annual growth rate would be required, as
compared to 4.3% for the base case. If the US$30 million additional financing
requirements were fully financed by borrowings, these would increase by US$88
million, or 32% of borrowings in the base case. The debt service coverage would



ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
declíne to an average of 1.6 times, compared to 1.9 times in the base
case.
Alternative 3: Increased Operating Expenses Inflation Rates
5.         This alternative shows the additional annual operating expenses
derived from increasing the inflation rates by 1% per year. In this case
the tariff íncreases required to meet these increased expenses is equivalent
to a 4.8% compound annual rate of growth.
Alternative 4: Increased Construction Program Costs
6.         This case shows the effects of a 50% cost overrun ín the construction
program as a limiting case. The additional capital expenditures required
would amount to US$328 million for 1977-83. If these additional requirements
were fully financed with tariff increases, then tariffs would have to grow at
7.1% annual rate. The rate of return required to meet thea additional
outlays would increase to more than double theminimumrate in the base case
at the begínning of the period with a decreasing trend that would approach
the target by the end of the period. The average required rate of return for
the period would be 13.1% (compared with 8.3% p.a. in the base case). If
the US$328 million additional expendítures were fully financed by borrowings,
these would have to increase by US$1,021 million or 3.7 times the borrowings in the
base case. Debt service coverage would average 0.7 times over the period.
Alternative 5: Base Case with Tariffs at the 1977 Level
7.        Thís alternative shows that if IRHE did not increase  its tariffs
after 1977, US$180 million borrowings (or 66% of those of the base case)
would be required. These would result in an average debt service coverage
of 1.4 times compared to 1.9 times in the base case.
8.         Only for alternatíve 4 the deviations of the average revenue per
kWh in constant 1975 currency from the base case are significant.
May 1977



INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAI LICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRJE)
PANAMA
Sensitivity Analysis
i977           1979             1981           1983            1977-83
Base Case
Percent tariff increase required to meet return targete                                             13.0             7.6             1.3             1.3              4.3 
Average revenue per kWh (in cents of balboas)                                                        6.44            7.62            8.50            8.32
Average revenue per kWh (in cente of 1975 balboas)                                                   5.48            5.61            5.46            4.67
Borrovings (in millions of balboas)                                                                 15.6            281l            36.8            33.6            219.7
Debt service coverage                                                                                1.9             1.4             1.9             2.8              1.9 2
Rate of return                                                                                       7.0             8.0             8.75            8.75             8.3 4
Alternative 1
Percent tariff increase required                                                                    13.0             9.5             5.5             -                5.6
Average revenue per kWh (in cents of balboas)                                                        6.44            7.77            8.80            8.66
Average revenue per kWh (in centa of 1975 balboas)                                                   5.48            5.72            5.65            4.86
Rate of return                                                                                       7.0             8.C             8.75            8.75             8.3 4
Additional borrowings to cover gap 
Debt service coverage                                                                                1.9             1.4             1.8             2.6              1.84.
Alternative 2
Additional financing requirements (in millions of balboas)                                           A.2             3.9             6.4             5.9              30.5
Percent tariff increase required to close the gap                                                      .6            6.5              2.3             4,2              4.7
Average revenue per kWh (in cents of balboas)                                                        6.66             7.84            8.81            8.56
Average revenue per kWh (in cente of 1975 balboas)                                                   5.66            5.77             5.65           4.80
Rate of return required to close the gap                                                             7.6              8.9            8.8              8.4 2            8.5 4
Additional borrowings to cover the gap                                                                3.6             5.0           18.0             25.0             88.6
Debt service coverage after additional borrowings                                                    1.9             1.3              1.6            2.1               1.6 4
Alternative 3
Additional annual eperating expenses (ex-fuel)(in millions of balboas)                                0.3             1.4             3.1             5.8             18.0
Percent tariff inorease required to meet increased expenses                                          13.3             8.4             2,1             2.2              4.84
Alternative 4
Additional annual capital outlays                                                                    44.0            39.0            46.o            62.0            328.0
Percent tariff inorease required                                                                     71.5             1.0             4.0             9.0              7.14
Average revenue per kWh (ín cents of balboas)                                                         9.56           10.00           11.00           11,45
Average revenue per kWh (ín cents of 1975 balboas)                                                    8.16            7.36            7.o6            6.45
Rate of return required to close the gap                                                             17.0            13.2            11.9             9.8             13.14
Additional borrowings to cover gap                                                                   55.0            94.0           170.0           283.0          1,021.0
Debt service coverage after additional borrowings                                                     1.3             0.7             o.6             o.6              0.7 4
Alternative 5
Additional borrowings with no post-1977 tariff inoreases                                               -             11.5            35.0            65.0            179.3
Debt service coverage after additional borrovings                                                     1.9             1.2             1.1             1.3              1.4      > >.
1/  1977-83 annual growth rate.
< 1977-83 average.
2 Alternatively, tariffs could be reduced in 1982 and raised by a higher percentage in 1983. The return in 1983 would be 8.75%.
June 1977






IBRD-12706R
MAY 1977
Archipielc1go de
. :0a;~~~~~~~~~~~ '.)-  @4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAMA                                                                                                      ,=         "    .                               Sant 9as
i: tV i f   SESISE I                                   INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y   )                                                                                                                  -, Srn .'. o
== 9SIESL'                                                       ELECTRIFICACION
1i ,VESIS                                                                                      (IRHE)                                              i     k                             _                  SAAMO
'59t "$ ;>C fi 1; q ' EQ je' AM FRANCISCO " r- > 'sB i t t ( \>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA FRACIM
(;  ' ~        E PV SR O  NS   LAOR                                                                                     '   i             ;t-10                                                     d  laAs Perlas
>          Vif OLVCAN     A      OS 0VALLES                                           _- ,_                                        
OSOS:A0                                                                                                                                                         VAMN                                  Archipelgo                                                           _  
A ID *-1 YbQ~,@A ' *_   -*A                                                               Y A                                                                                   M       I 
~~O A-M-L'~~ ~~~ SO,IO                                                                O     ..  SAN..Z.ojc                                                                    NERCNTRJTO
O>                                                                                         .-A 5                     1 __/,.. -~DIA .230 Kv TRANSMISSIOLON LINE                               T              LI|
so-                   ffi SONA; loo "O~U  IfNR               E              230 K, SUBSTATION                     230 Kv. D,A                                                  R i |
~~OCO  COlEES ~~~~~~~~255 M-. HY000 PLANT                            --    S K,
I h111 l.ol¿!l.1Wt1cr i.SE V'IE,OI0,IIEE I #r/I                                          PUESTOY1 MUTIS   PESE¶t -O4    *LOE SANTONDOS
ElE  iIo>>lO.okforVOíorfI V»e.el.lile E .I                                                                                                            FUTURE                                 ONDEO I Kv.
9SS ls',.h Rzk SÁ 1e áAlilOr                                                                                                  O .LES TABLAS           TPANSMIDiSION  LINES
Coiba Is/ond                                       vO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I..CAvCS            345 KO.                                SUBSTATIONSI
qOCPI            230_  ,                                275Kv,
_       COBX~~    01.11                                                                                            -                         lIS  Kv.                           e    lIS  KvK
SEAI    SUBSTATIONS                             HYDRO5 PLANTS
ik5¿,¿j             JAMA4A-.                                                     éoo  10                                                                   4  v
DA9NSUBAO             1                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~220 KO.  TRANSMISSION LI0ES
SUATÉMALSO -     NSABAUA                                                                                                                                         115 K,                          --230 Kv.
EL SALSASUOR  -o ÁIAU 
'1' PANAMA   1                                          'PANAMA CANALHYRPANS15,
WSI       \     -                                                                                                                           THEMAL  -ANT5UNDE  115 KO.                                                       JSTfI
COSTA R INA- o    >,                                                                                    - - -T.o  v ov y  v  ír   CANAL ZONE5 EOUNDARIES  TROA PAT
DONE                                                                     I-PROVINCIAL BOUNDARISS                                                                             230 K,. SUBSTATIONS                    HYD00  PLANTO
E                              01v           -     I~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDAREES                                      * ODOlSK.SNTTOS                        * TEMLPAT



