Document of
FILE COPY                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2059a-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR THE
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
June 15, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =     Balboa (B/.l)
US$1          B/.l
B/.l    -     US$1
Fiscal Year            =     January 1-December 31
Note:  The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins.
The U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW               =     kilowatt
MW               2     Megawatt = 1000 kW
kWh              -     kilowatt hour
GWh              =     Gigawatt hour = 1 million kWh
kV                     kilo volt
kVA              =     kilo volt - ampere
MVA              =     Megavolt - ampere
mile             =     1.609 km2
square mile      -     2.590 km
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GNP              =     Gross National Product
IDB              -     Inter-American Development Bank
USAID            =     United States Agency for
International Development
EXIMBANK         =     Export Import Bank
IRHE             =     Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos
y Electrificacion
FyL              =     Compania Panamena de Fuerza y Luz
C.T. MAIN        =     Chas T. Main International Inc.
PANCANAL               Panama Canal Company
Stone and              StDne and Webster Overseas Consultants
Webster                Incorporated
IRHE's FISCAL-YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 4
PANAMA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion
Guarantor:             Republic of Panama
Amount:                US$42 million
Terms:                 Payable in 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 8.2 percent per annum.
Co-lenders:            US$98 million   - Inter-American Development Bank.
US$21.6 million - Suppliers' Credits.
Prolect Description:   The project is the largest component of IRHE's 1977-
1983 investment program. The Government has assigned
the highest priority to the Project because the latter
is essential to the viability of a number of directly
productive projects included in the 1976-80 National
Development Plan, because it will produce the required
electricity at the least cost, and will assist in
significantly reducing Panama's dependence on thermal
generation and hence on fuel imports. The hydroelectric
component of the project is located in the Province of
Chiriqui in western Panama. The Project consists of:
(i) The Fortuna 255-MW hydroelectric power plant,
which would have an estimated average annual
generation of 1,320 GWh during normal-hydrology
years and 1,155 GWh during dry years, comprising:
(a) diversion works;
(b)  rockfill dam;
(c) power tunnel (about 6,000 meters long), surge
tank and penstock (about 1,400 meters long);
(d) underground power house with 3 generating
units of about 85 MW each;
(e) tailrace tunnel (about 8,300 meters long); and
(f)  access road, camp and related works.
Thb docuennt has a rtted dtribudon and nmy be usd by recipients only in th perormance  l
of tboir olieW dutles Its contnts my not otberwime be dsclod without World Bank authorfuon.



Page 2 of 4
(ii) The Fortuna transmission system, consisting of:
the Fortuna switchyard, high-voltage trans-
mission line from the Fortuna plant to the
David substation; and additional associated
substation capacity.
(iii) IRHE's organizational improvement program and
training program.
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign    Total
-----(US$ million)------
The Fortuna Hydroelectric Power Plant
Civil Works
River diversion, dam and spillway          3.52    11.22 /1  14.74
Other civil works                         26.79    42.23     69.02
Power House Equipment
Main equipment and power transformers      1.46    13.35     14.81
Ancillary electromechanical equipment      0.65     4.31 /1   4.96
Sub-total                             32.42    71.11    103.53
The Fortuna Transmission System                2.07     4.58 /1   6.65
Organization and Training                      0.55     1.52 /1    2.07
Engineering and Administration
Engineering for river diversion,
dam and spillway and transmission
system                                     1.77     1.70 /1   3.47
Other engineering services and
administration of the project              6.33     6.06     12.39
Sub-total                              8.10     7.76     15.86
Total Base Cost                       43.14    84.97    128.11
Physical contingencies                         7.39    15.23     22.62
Price contingencies                           21.75    49.77     71.52
Total Project Cost                    72.28   149.97    222.25
Interest during construction                                     31.35
Total financial requirements                                    253.60
/1   Items to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.



Page 3 of 4
Prolect Financing Plan:
US$ million
Investment
Construction expenditures 1/ - local                72.3
- foreign             150.0
Interest during construction                        31.3
Total requirements                            253.6
Financing
Borrowings:
IBRD                                              42.0
IDB package                                       98.0
Suppliers                                         21.6
Total borrowings                             161.6
Government contributions                            35.0
Government subsidies                                 6.7
Net internal cash generation                        50.3
253.6
Disbursements:
Amount by IBRD Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
Annual     Cumulative
1978            0.5          0.5
1979            2.7         3.2
1980            8.4         11.6
1981           11.1         22.7
1982           12.1         34.8
1983            7.2         42.0
Return on
Investment:         The rate of return on the project and the sub-
transmission and distribution investments required
to utilize its output is 17.7 percent.
1/   Includes the organization improvement and training programs.



Page 4 of 4
Consultants:           (i)  Suitably qualified consultants to provide assis-
tance on organization and to implement a training
program (205 man-months).
(ii) C.T. Main (US) for project design and construction
supervision. (890 man-months of which the Bank
would finance 211 man-months and the Inter-American
Development Bank 679 man-months.)
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1510b-PAN, dated June 10, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR THE FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$42 million to
help finance a power project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing a three and one-half year grace period, with interest at 8.2 percent per
annum. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would participate in the
financing of the project with US$98 million (including complementary financing
from commercial sources). Financing from bilateral sources would amount to
about US$22 million (see paragraph 29 below).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the country in September/October 1975.
An "Updating Report on the Economy of Panama" (1066a-PAN) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 17, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        In the 1960's the Panamanian economy expanded rapidly with limited
Government participation and an efficient use of investment. World trade
flourished during that decade and Panama was able to benefit from its unique
geographic location owing to liberal trade legislation, free use of the United
States dollar as the domestic currency, and the Colon Free Zone. The domestic
market offered opportunities for small-scale industrialization and there still
was much accessible virgin land that could be brought under production. The
situation changed in the present decade. There are fewer opportunities for
import-substitution. Further expansion of agriculture requires more capital
and specialized manpower, whether to improve yields and cropping patterns or
to extend the frontier to new, less accessible lands. The recession which
affected world trade in 1974-75 lowered the growth of the export-oriented
service sector, and the recovery since then has been slow, owing in part to
changing trade patterns resulting from the reopening of the Suez Canal.
Panama's open economy was also severely hit by the sharp rise in the cost of
imports, particularly fuels. Net of exports of refined petroleum products,
Panama's petroleum import bill rose from 1 percent of GDP in 1973 to 3 percent
in 1975, and from 4.2 percent of non-petroleum imports to 14.1 percent in the
same period. Finally, these unfavorable developments were compounded by the
end of a private construction boom in high income housing and office buildings,
and by a severe drought in 1976. As a result, the rate of GDP growth, which
had averaged 8 percent per year in 1959-71, fell steadily to 0.6 percent in
1975 and is estimated to have been nil in 1976. This prolonged slowdown is
particularly serious because population is growing at an annual rate above 3
percent. Although the recorded rate of open unemployment has increased only



- 2 -
from 6.8 percent of the labor force in 1972 to 7.2 percent in 1976, unofficial
estimates of unemployment which include workers who abandoned the search for a
job suggest an increase from 7.5 percent in 1972 to 12.9 percent in March 1976.
4.        The retrenchment of private investment which occurred in 1974-76
(not only in construction) has reflected, in addition to a response to the
recession, concern regarding the implementation of the 1972 Labor Code. Some
provisions of the Labor Code were believed to have led to increased absenteeism
and reduced productivity. Private investment has also been held back by what
was perceived to be slow progress in the negotiations with the United States
on a new Panama Canal Treaty. On balance, private investment fell from 21.8
percent of GDP in 1971 to 16.1 percent in 1975, and is estimated to have
dropped further to 11.3 percent in 1976.
5.        The Government has responded to the slackening of economic growth
by formulating a short-term program to reactivate the economy and a longer
term development strategy, embodied in the National Development Plan, 1976-80.
The Government's short-term program includes (a) incentives equivalent to 20
percent of value added for non-traditional exports; (b) a scheme to guarantee
commercial bank mortgage loans for low and middle-income housing and a facility
to rediscount these loans after eight years; (c) lowering of commercial banks'
capital and reserve requirements; (d) fiscal incentives to promote investment,
including accelerated depreciation, investment credits and income tax exonera-
tion for reinvested corporate profits; and (e) special income tax deductions
for firms hiring additional low-income workers. The Government has recently
modified the Labor Code, making its provisions more flexible. Collective
labor contracts have been extended for two years; during this period there
are to be no collective demands for new benefits and labor conflicts will be
resolved through compulsory arbitration.
6.        The Government has offset the drop in private investment by in-
creasing public investment sharply. Aggregate investment fluctuated around 28
percent of GDP during 1971-76 in spite of the sharp drop in private investment,
as public investment increased from 6 percent of GDP in 1971 to 14 percent
in 1975 and an estimated 17 percent of GDP in 1976. The volume of public
investment included in the plan for 1976-80 is twice as large in constant
terms as in the 1971-75 period. It includes a number of large projects in
infrastructure and in directly productive investment aimed at taking advan-
tage of the country's potential for providing services to international trade
-- including expansion of the successful industrial and commercial complex in
the Colon Free Zone -- and at developing more intensively the country's
natural resources, including the hydroelectric potential, large copper deposits,
and agriculture. The program should also open up new opportunities for the
private sector and improve income distribution further through better infrast-
ructure and social services for the lower income groups and through comple-
mentary measures to increase the productivity of small-scale farmers. The
priorities of the public investment program are sound, but the timing of
outlays may have to be stretched out to allow for administrative and financial
constraints.



7.        A major expansion in social and economic programs began in 1968, and
total public sector outlays have risen steadily since then. The authorities
have made efforts to -raise the level of public sector savings to finance these
programs. Several new taxes were adopted during the past few years, tax
administration improved and the growth of current outlays was restrained.
Nonetheless, public savings have not kept pace with investment outlays, and
the Government has relied increasingly on external borrowing, much of it from
commercial banks. In 1976, owing to a recession-induced B/. 32 million short-
fall in tax revenues, and although current outlays were held B/. 10 million
below budgeted levels, the Central Government had a B/. 21 million current
account deficit. This, together with lower than anticipated profits of public
utilities, heavy losses incurred by the state-owned sugar corporation and a
rising level of public investment, resulted in substantial new borrowing. As
of December 1976, the disbursed external public debt amounted to US$1,015
million, four times more than five years earlier. Panama has negotiated ten
stand-by arrangements with the IMF. The last one was approved by the IMF in
April 1977.
8.        As a result of the high level of external debt and of the large
proportion of private bank credits (62 percent of total public debt in 1976),
the debt service obligations of the public sector have increased at a faster
rate than public savings. (The conventional ratio of debt service to export
earnings is not a meaningful indicator of creditworthiness in Panama where the
US dollar is the domestic currency.) The Government has been readily able to
refinance its commercial debt, but realizes that measures to ensure that public
savings grow faster than debt service obligations are required to strengthen
the public sector's creditworthiness. It has recently taken further important
steps to strengthen the Central Government revenue structure by making it more
responsive to economic growth; this includes the introduction of a 5 percent
value-added sales tax, increased taxes on beer, cigarettes, liquor, gasoline,
hotel services and on dividends. Tax administration has been tightened and
the growth of current outlays has been restrained. Central Government consump-
tion expenditures (excluding interest payments) dropped from 13.3 percent of
GDP in 1972 to 11 percent in 1976. Furthermore, electric power rates were
modified as of January 1, 1977, to yield a 10.5 percent increase in revenues
and further increases are taking place. Telephone rates have been doubled and
water rates raised by 30 percent. These increases are expected to reduce the
need for Central Government transfers to help finance the investments of the
utilities. Finally, the Government intends to carry out the public investment
program with flexibility and to adapt the timing of individual projects to
changes in its financial position.
9.        Although in recent years economic growth has been disappointingly
slow, the Government has taken measures to minimize the adverse effects of the
recession on the lower income strata of the population. More than most Latin
American countries, it has addressed social ills that had been neglected for
decades and has succeeded in extending health and education services to the
rural population. In the last 15 years, infant mortality was reduced from 58
to 34 per thousand, life expectancy at birth increased from 60.9 to 66.5
years, the primary school enrollment ratio rose by 20 percent and the income



- 4 -
share of the poorest 40 percent of the population rose from 13.4 to 15.2 per-
cent. As noted earlier, the authorities have compensated for the decline in
private investment and have formulated an ambitious investment program. How-
ever, the Government's ability to pursue anticyclical policies is limited
by the need for fiscal prudence. In this respect, serious efforts have been
made to raise public sector savings at a time when both recession and infla-
tion add to the pressures to spend, and make tax and utility rate increases
difficult. Panama is creditworthy for lending on conventional terms provided
that the authorities continue to take measures required to ensure that the
growth of public borrowing remains manageable. In view of the high level and
relatively unfavorable structure of the public sector debt, Panama should make
a special effort to obtain external loans on better than commercial terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
10.       The Bank has to date made fourteen loans to Panama totalling US$169.6
million. Of these, five loans for US$18 million, are fully disbursed (two for
roads totalling US$13 million; two for agriculture totalling US$1 million, and
one for power for US$4 million). Ongoing projects include a power generation
project for which the Bank lent US$42 million in 1970; an airport project
(Tocumen International Airport) for which the Bank lent US$20 million, and a
fisheries credit project for which the Bank lent US$3.4 million, both in 1971;
a livestock credit project for which the Bank made a US$4.7 million loan in
1973; a power transmission project for which the Bank made a US$30 million
loan in 1974; a fishing port project for which the Bank made a US$24 million
loan in 1975; and a US$12 million loan to finance a water supply and sewerage
project made in 1976. The most recent loans to Panama, for a Second Livestock
Development Project (US$8 million) and for a Second Fisheries Project (US$7.5
million), were approved by the Executive Directors on April 5, 1977.
11.      Execution of Bank-financed projects has, on the whole, been satis-
factory, although substantial delays and cost overruns have occurred particu-
larly with respect to the airport and power projects. While the major causes
of delay have been overcome, the cost overruns created financial problems in
the case of IRHE, the power company (see Part IV).
12.       IFC has made one investment in Panama:   a commitment in 1971 to
acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero S.A.
and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new international
hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed and the hotel is open to
business. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of April 30, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's devel-
opment strategy, particularly as regards the development of Panama's dynamic
service industries and the diversification of production and exports.



Specifically, the Bank's assistance is oriented towards those sectors in
which it can make a special contribution in terms of policies and institu-
tions, removing infrastructure bottlenecks and utilizing the country's natural
resources. The Fortuna project is a fundamental component of the country's
public investment program, and will contribute to reducing Panama's heavy
dependence on thermal generation. Through the proposed loan, the Bank would
continue to assist the power company in strengthening its organization, taxed
by the rapid expansion of services. In addition, the Bank is working with the
Government on a project designed to improve highway maintenance operations and
administration. We also expect to continue supporting the government's
program of expanding the water supply and sewerage facilities in the fast-
growing urban areas.
14.       The principal sources of official external financing to Panama in
the past are summarized as follows:
Table 1: External Assistance to Panama, 1953-77 /1
(Commitments in US$ million)
IBRD        IDB        USAID
Commitments 1953-68                            18.0 /2     37.2         72.2
Commitments 1969-77                           151.6       197.0        188.2
Total Commitments by Sector 1953-77
Power                                        76.0          -            -
Education and Health                           -         30.4         39.4
Agriculture, Fisheries, and Livestock        24.6        33.5         41.3
Industry                                       -          4.0         9.1
Water and Sewerage                           12.0        21.3         36.0
Housing                                        -         16.6         35.2
Transport                                    57.0        99.5         72.5 /3
Other                                          -         28.9         26.9
Total           169.6       234.2       260.4
/1   As of April 30, 1977.
/2   Excluding $0.5 million which was cancelled.
/3   Including a $60 million grant from the U.S. Government for
completion of the Darien Gap portion of the Pan-American Highway.
15.       Both USAID and IDB have lent heavily for agriculture and for social
services. This pattern is likely to persist as the Government prefers to
borrow on highly concessionary terms for those sectors, while utilizing assist-
ance received on harder terms for projects which are expected to result in
more immediate economic benefits. The IDB is also financing road construction
and tourism. It-has under active consideration financing of the Fortuna Proj-
ect, which is scheduled to be submitted to IDB's Executive Directors in July/
August 1977.



- 6 -
16.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 9.3 percent at the end of 1976 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service was 6.2 percent. Because of the high
levels of borrowing from commercial banks programmed by the Government, these
percentages are expected to drop by 1980 to 7.4 and 4.2 percent, respectively.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
17.       Panama's highly urbanized economy (50 percent of the population lives
in the metropolitan Panama-Colon corridor in central Panama) and the pivotal
role played by the sophisticated internationally-oriented services (Colon Free
Zone, banking) in terms of GDP growth and employment, have required a highly
reliable basic infrastructure. The Government must therefore invest heavily
in essential services such as water and electricity. It has done so not only
to meet the needs of the dynamic urban economy, but also in an effort to
improve economic and social conditions in the provincial towns and in rural
areas.
18.       The per capita consumption of electricity in Panama was 610 kWh in
1975. The proportion of the population served varied from a high of about 69
percent in Panama Province to a low of 12 percent in the sparsely populated
Darien Province in eastern Panama. Total power sales in the systems supplied
by IRHE, the main supplier of electricity, had an average annual growth rate
of 11.4 percent in the period 1969-76 and are projected to grow at 11.8 per-
cent in the period 1977-84. The projected growth rate takes into account
the power requirements of a number of major ongoing and planned projects
(expansion of the Colon Free Zone, the new international airport, a cement
plant and sugar refineries). Residential and commercial customers have been
the most important in terms of energy sales, reflecting the key role of the
service sector in the economy. In 1976, residential and commercial consumers
represented 34.6 percent and 32.2 percent of total energy sales, respectively.
Also in 1976, sales to the Government and industrial customers were 17.4
percent and 11.4 percent of total sales, respectively. This structure of
demand is not expected to change significantly except for the increased
importance of bulk consumers which are estimated to rise from 4 percent of
total sales in 1976 to about 8 percent by 1984.
19.       Panama has abundant hydroelectric potential:   about 30 hydroelectric
sites have been identified, with a potential of about 1,900 MW. In spite of
its hydroelectric potential, Panama was almost completely dependent on thermal
generation until the commissioning of the Bayano hydroelectric project in
October 1976 (150 MW). The slow development of the country's hydroelectric
potential is explained by the fact that the development of hydroelectric sites
was legally reserved to IRHE which did not, prior to the 1970's, have the
financial and technical resources to carry out major investments.



-7-
Power Sector Organization
20.       IRHE, created in 1961, is charged with coordinating and expanding
public service electricity throughout the country (for details on IRHE, see
Part IV). IRHE grew out of a consolidation of several electricity companies
which operated in its present concession areas. It became the major institu-
tion in the power sector after the acquisition of the foreign-owned Compania
Panamena de Fuerza y Luz (FyL) in 1972, which was responsible for electricity
supply in the Panama-Colon corridor. By 1974, IRHE owned 97 percent of the
public service capacity installed in Panama.
21.       In 1976, IRHE's operations covered all the provinces, except for
the areas supplied by the privately-owned Hidroelectrica La Chorrera in the
Province of Panama (about 3 MW) and by the municipal company at Bocas del
Toro (less than 1 MW). IRHE is currently negotiating the acquisition of the
company supplying La Chorrera, and will begin directly supplying the area
from the interconnected system in mid-1977.
Power Sector Development
22.       A Master Electrification Plan for the period 1975-90 was prepared in
1972-73 by IRHE as part of a sector study financed by UNDP for which the Bank
was Executing Agency. This Master Plan was updated in 1975/76. The Plan has
three main objectives. First, the interconnection of the isolated systems to
the high voltage national transmission system. The beginning of the construc-
tion of the interconnection transmission line began in 1974 under the Bank's
Third Power Project.  Second, the development of the country's hydroelectric
resources: the Estrella and Los Valles Projects (80 MW), to be commissioned
in 1979, and the proposed Fortuna Project, are part of this program. A third
objective is to carry out a program of rural electrification. While consider-
able amounts have been invested by the Government, through IRHE, in rural
electrification, IRHE has not yet designed a long-term rural electrification
program. To better address the needs of the rural areas, IRHE established a
Rural Electrification Section under its Planning Directorate. This Section is
coordinating rural electrification programs with other government agencies
dealing with rural development. In addition, at the request of IRHE, IDB
has agreed in principle to finance technical assistance for a study of rural
electrification.
Previous Bank Projects
23.       Since 1962, the Bank has made loans totalling US$76 million for
three power projects in Panama. The first project (Loan 322-PAN of 1962 for
US$4 million) assisted IRHE in financing the construction of the 6 MW La
Yeguada hydroelectric project and associated facilities, the installation of
3 MW of diesel generation and rehabilitation of distribution systems--all of
which are now in operation. The La Yeguada hydro plant, the main item of the
project, was commissioned several months after the expected completion date.
However, the final project cost was not substantially different from the
appraisal estimate. The Second Power Project (Loan 661-PAN of 1970 for US$42
million) helped IRHE to finance the foreign exchange component of the 150 MW



first stage of the Bayano hydroelectric plant; a 40 MW steam unit at Bahia
Las Minas; associated transmission; 6 MW of diesel generating capacity in
rural areas; expansion of IRHE's distribution system; and studies, training
and consultants' services. The project has now been completed and the loan
should be fully disbursed by the Closing Date. During the execution of the
Second Power Project, IRHE encountered major difficulties which resulted in a
total delay of about 22 months in the implementation of the project and cost
overruns amounting to about 84 percent. At the Bayano hydro plant, the main
difficulties were the need to change the consulting engineers, problems with
the main contractor and shortages of materials. Other difficulties resulted
from problems in the construction of the steam unit, IRHE's lack of experience
in dealing with large projects and higher than expected inflation rates in
1972-75. The Third Power Project (Loan 948-PAN of 1974 for US$30 million) is
assisting IRHE in financing the 28 MW San Francisco diesel generating plant;
expansion of IRHE's transmission, subtransmission and distribution systems; a
load dispatch and communications center; and studies, engineering and training.
The execution of the Third Power Project has suffered delays mainly due to
IRHE's inexperience in handling procurement of the type included in the proj-
ect. In addition, IRHE has had some difficulties with suppliers of transmis-
sion line towers, and with the commissioning of the San Francisco diesel
units. These units have had failures during the test period as a result of
defects in design and errors during erection and test. IRHE has requested the
manufacturer to make changes in the design of the units and to extend the
guarantee period. The project is expected to be completed with a delay of
about 12 months and a cost overrun of about 25 percent of the appraisal
estimate. In spite of the cost overruns, the Second and Third Power Projects
remain economically justified.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
24.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Fourth Power Project (Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project) of the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrifica-
cion (IRHE)," dated June 10, 1977, is being distributed separately. The
project was prepared by IRHE with the assistance of consultants. C.T. Main
(US) prepared the Master Electrification Plan (see paragraph 22), the optimi-
zation studies and preliminary designs which served as the basis for the
preparation of the construction components of the project. Stone and Webster
(US) carried out the diagnostic study that assisted in formulating the organi-
zational improvements required by IRHE and a training program for IRHE's staff.
The project was appraised in November 1976, and negotiations were held in
Washington from May 16 to 23, 1977. IRHE and the Republic of Panama were
represented by a delegation led by Messrs. Edwin Fabrega, Director General of
IRHE, and Orville Goodin, Chief of the Preinvestment Fund of the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy.
Project Description
25.       The project is the largest component of IRHE's 1977-83 investment
program. The Government has assigned the highest priority to the project



- 9 -
because the latter is essential to the viability of a number of directly pro-
ductive projects included in the 1976-80 National Development Plan, will help
meet Panama's electricity requirements at the least cost, and will assist in
significantly reducing Panama's dependence on thermal generation and hence on
fuel imports. The project is also designed to strengthen the organizational
structure of IRHE. The hydroelectric component of the project is located in
the Province of Chiriqui in western Panama. The project consists of:
(i) The Fortuna 255-MW hydroelectric power plant, which would
have an estimated average annual generation of 1,320 GWh
during normal-hydrology years and 1,155 GWh during dry years,
comprising:
(a) diversion works;
(b) rockfill dam;
(c) power tunnel (about 6,000 meters long), surge tank and
penstock (about 1,400 meters long);
(d) underground power house with 3 generating units of
about 85 MW each;
(e) tailrace tunnel (about 8,300 meters long);
(f) access road, camp and related works.
(ii) The Fortuna transmission system, consisting of:
the Fortuna switchyard; high-voltage transmission
line from the Fortuna plant to the David substation;
and additional associated substation capacity.
(iii) IRHE's organizational improvement program and training program.
26.       The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of:
(a) diversion works; (b) the rockfill dam; (c) ancillary electromechanical
equipment of the underground power house; (d) the Fortuna transmission
system; (e) associated engineering services; and (f) the organizational
improvement and training programs for IRHE. A loan from IDB would finance
the foreign exchange cost of the power and tailrace tunnels; the underground
power house (excluding equipment); associated engineering services and interest
on the IDB loan during construction. Suppliers are expected to extend credit
for the main generating equipment and power transformers.
27.       Bid opening for the main generating equipment is expected to take
place in late 1977. The Government has agreed to provide financing for the
main generating equipment if IRHE is not able to obtain financing on terms



- 10 -
acceptable to the Bank (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02). In addition,
there are certain complementary works required for the project, such as the
195 km transmission line that interconnects western Panama to the central
region (from the town of David to Llano Sanchez, outside Panama City), the
David and Llano Sanchez substations and the uprating of the Panama and La
Chorrera substations, which are necessary to bring energy from the ongoing
Estrella and Los Valles Projects, also in the province of Chiriqui, to central
Panama. IRHE has agreed to have these works completed by June 1980, before
the Fortuna Project enters into operation (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.09), and the Government has agreed to make any financial contributions which
may be necessary for the timely completion of these works (draft Guarantee
Agreement, Section 2.02).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
28.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$222.3 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$150 million. The total financial require-
ments for the project, including interest during construction, are estimated
at US$253.6 million. A breakdown of costs is detailed in the summary given at
the beginning of this Report. Physical contingencies account for 18 percent
of base cost which is reasonable for works of the type included in the
project. Price contingencies are 6 percent per annum for engineering and
administration, 10 percent per annum for equipment and 12 percent per annum
for civil works. These contingencies reflect recent experience in Panama
and the expected price effect on civil works of the large planned public
investment program.
29.       The project would be financed by the Bank, the IDB, suppliers,
government contributions and IRHE's internal cash generation. The proposed
Bank loan of US$42 million would be for 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of
grace. The IDB would participate with a US$98 million loan which would
include funds from three sources: US$40 million from IDB's Ordinary Capital,
US$30 million from the Venezuelan Trust Fund, and a US$28 million commercial
bank complementary line of credit. Ordinary Capital resources would be lent
for 25 years, including 6-1/2 years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.35 per-
cent per annum. The Venezuelan Fund resources will carry the same amortiza-
tion and interest rate of the Ordinary Capital, but will have a grace period
of 6 years. The complementary line of credit has been estimated to have a
9-year amortization period, including 2 years of grace, and an interest rate
of 9 percent per annum. The IDB loan would be to the Government, which would
on-lend the funds to IRHE on the same terms as the Government receives them.
Suppliers' credits of US$21.6 million have been estimated to have a 14-year
maturity, including 4 years of grace and an interest rate of 10 percent per
annum. Suppliers are expected to finance 90 percent of total costs of equip-
ment and associated civil works. The Government has agreed to contribute
about US$49 million to IRHE (of which US$35 million would be for the project),
and any additional funds that may be required to complete the project (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02). IRHE would contribute to the project
US$50.3 million from internal cash generation. A condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan would be that satisfactory arrangements have been made
for obtaining all financing necessary for the project (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(c)).



- 11 -
30.       The proposed project represents about 38 percent of IRRE's invest-
ment program for 1977-83, which totals US$676 million. IRHE proposes to
finance the program as follows: 8 percent from already committed loans; 30
percent from new borrowings (including borrowings for the Fortuna Project);
10 percent from Government contributions and subsidies; and 52 percent from
net cash generation.
The Borrower
31.       IRHE is an autonomous agency of the Panamanian Government, charged
with the task of developing and operating power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities.
32.       In mid-1972, IRHE's role changed significantly when the Government
purchased FyL, the largest utility in the country, with concessions for the
operation of electricity, telephones and gas services in the cities of Panama
and Colon. The functions of FyL were initially vested in IRHE, until the
Government established an autonomous telephone company in 1974. IRHE main-
tains the Panama City gas operations, but these are insignificant. With the
merger of IRHE and FyL, IRHE's electrical generating capacity increased from
54 MW to 200 MW, and the number of customers five-fold, to over 130,000.
33.       IRHE's overall policies, including proposals to the Government for
setting electricity rates, are made by a seven-member board of directors which
is presided by the Minister of Planning and Economic Policy. Administration
is entrusted to a Director General, a Deputy Director General and a Technical
Director. The Director General, an architect by training, has extensive
experience in government. His Deputy, an-engineer, played an important role
in the formulation of a plan for the integrated development of the Bayano
River Basin. The Technical Director is a capable and experienced engineer.
34.       Since the acquisition of the Panama-Colon system, IRHE has had
difficulties adapting its organization to its expanded role and dimensions.
To address this problem, IRHE hired consultants (Stone and Webster, US) who
carried out a Diagnostic Study to obtain an independent evaluation of its
organization. The Study analyzed the following principal areas: data process-
ing; development and planning; engineering, construction and hydrometeorology;
finance; marketing and public relations; operations; and personnel functions,
including training required. The Diagnostic Study contains for each of the
areas mentioned above (1) an analysis of performance; (2) a description of
existing problems; (3) recommendations on how to solve the problems with an
indication of priorities; (4) the preliminary terms of reference to carry out
the recommendations of the study; and (5) the cost estimate of the organiza-
tional improvement and training program. The Bank would finance the orga-
nization and training programs outlined in the Diagnostic Study as part of the
project. The terms of reference for the consultants who would undertake the
organization and training programs have been reviewed by the Bank and are
acceptable. The hiring of the consulting firm or firms to undertake these
programs is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(a)).



- 12 -
35.       The financial statements of IRHE are audited by the local represen-
tatives of Arthur Anderson and Co. (US), who are acceptable to the Bank. IRHE
has agreed to continue to have its accounts audited by external auditors ac-
ceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Financial Performance of IRHE
36.       In 1974-76, IRHE suffered a deterioration in its financial position,
largely attributable to cost overruns totalling about US$60 million on the two
Bank-financed projects (see Part III), and to the Government's unwillingness
to allow tariff increases over and above the 75 percent increase between
1973 and 1976 in the unit price of electricity resulting from the application
of a fuel surcharge. Despite substantial government capital transfers, IRHE
had to resort to medium- and short-term borrowings to help finance investment
outlays and working capital requirements. As a result, IRHE's net revenues
in 1976 were almost entirely absorbed by debt service.
37.       The Government and IRHE requested the Bank in mid-1975 to agree to
a temporary waiver of the rate of return covenants of Loans 661-PAN and
948-PAN according to which IRHE is to obtain a minimum 8.75 percent rate of
return on its rate base. The Bank agreed in October 1975 and again in early
1977 to a temporary waiver of the 8.75 percent rate of return requirement on
the understanding that it would be fully met by 1979 and that IRHE would take
a number of measures to improve its financial situation and to rationalize its
heterogenous rate structure. These measures included incorporation into the
basic electricity rate of that portion of the fuel surcharge which would
otherwise have been eliminated as a result of the entry into service of the
Bayano hydroelectric plant, a phased program of electricity rate increases
starting in January 1977 (discussed in the paragraph below), improvement of
IRHE's organization, revaluation of its fixed assets for the purpose, inter
alia, of determining the rate base, refinancing of IRHE's short-term bor-
rowings, and prompt settlement of public sector electricity bills. All
commitments undertaken by the Government and IRHE in connection with the
waiver are being met.
38.       The Government and IRHE have begun a program of electricity rate
revisions and increases. The electricity rate program, which came into effect
on January 1, 1977, consists of (i) a new unified electricity rate structure,
which is expected to yield a 10.5 percent revenue increase, and (ii) the
application of further monthly electricity rate increases of 1 percent from
February 1, 1977, through December 1, 1977. Under the program, IRHE can
adjust electricity rates to reach a 7 percent rate of return on its revalued
rate base in 1977; 8 percent return in 1978, and 8.75 percent in 1979, and
thereafter. The Government and IRHE have agreed to take the measures required
to achieve these rates of return. (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.07 and
draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). It is estimated that these rates of
return will permit IRHE to cover 52 percent of its 1977-83 investment program
from internal cash generation. IRHE has revalued its assets as of December
31, 1975, and has agreed to annual revaluations using methods acceptable to
the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).



- 13 -
39.       IRHE has agreed to seek Bank concurrence for borrowings of more than
one year if its net revenues do not cover its maximum future debt service
requirements more than 1.4 times. IRHE will also limit its borrowings of
less than one year to one-sixth of its cash operating, maintenance and admin-
istrative expenses during the preceding 12-month period (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04). To reduce the need for such borrowings, IRHE will seek to
maintain no more than 60 days of electricity bills outstanding (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 5.06). Arrangements for timely payment of public sector
electricity bills is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). IRHE has agreed to obtain Bank concurrence
before initiating major investments other than those contemplated in a program
agreed upon with the Bank. The agreed-upon program includes, in addition to
on-going generation projects, related transmission, subtransmission and
distribution facilities and a rural electrification component (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.05).
40.       Before January 1977, when electricity rates were unified into five
major categories, IRHE had 21 rate categories. This was the result of the
acquisition by IRHE of several independent utilities, each with its own rate
structure. In adopting the new rates, IRHE sought to minimize the burden on
low-income and rural customers. IRHE has agreed to hire consultants to carry
out a study on the cost of providing service to different users. This study
would assist IRHE and the Government in designing electricity pricing policies
based on economic criteria. The consultants would be hired by the end of 1977.
IRHE has agreed to discuss with the Bank the results of the study which should
be completed, and the findings sent to the Bank, by June 1979 (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 5.05(b)).
41.       Bulk consumers will become increasingly important as the Government
undertakes major projects like the Cerro Colorado Copper mining project. To
protect its revenues, IRHE has agreed to sell power to large users at prices
no lower than the marginal cost of energy (draft Loan Agreement, Section
5.05(a)).
Project Execution
42.       The project is expected to take six years to execute.   Construction
of the first critical item of the Project, consisting of the underground
works, is scheduled to start in late 1977. Bids for this contract, which
would be financed by the IDB loan, have already been invited. Bids for
items to be financed by the Bank (other than consultant services) would be
invited in February 1978. IRHE would engage consultants to design and super-
vise construction of the hydroelectric plant and transmission items, and to
prepare bidding documents and evaluate bids for the acquisition of all
the equipment included in the project. IRHE has proposed C.T. Main (US) to
carry out these services because the firm has already prepared the feasibility
study, preliminary design and part of the bidding documents for the project.
In addition, IRHE and IDB have agreed that IRHE appoint a Board of Consultants,
which would act as an advisory body to IRHE and its consultants for problems



- 14 -
related to the Fortuna hydroelectric power plant during the execution of the
project. IRHE has also agreed to make adequate arrangements for the inspec-
tion of the Fortuna dam (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
43.       The project includes 890 man-months of consulting services for
design and construction supervision (excluding the Board of Consultants) and
205 man-months of consulting services. The proposed Bank loan would finance
the organization consultants, and 211 man-months of the design and construc-
tion supervision consultants; the balance of the consulting services for
design and construction supervision (679 man-months) would be financed by the
IDB. The estimated costs of consulting services (about US$6,800 per man-
month for design and construction supervision and about US$6,500 for assist-
ance in organization and training) are considered reasonable given the type
of expertise required.
Procurement
44.       All the civil works, equipment and materials to be financed under
the proposed loan would be procured, and the contracts for their construction,
installation or erection awarded, following international competitive bidding,
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Those items financed by IDB would
be procured in accordance with IDB's guidelines. Procurement of the generat-
ing equipment for the project, and of the complementary works would conform
to schedules and specifications acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, Part B. 3). None of the equipment to be procured under the project
is produced, or is likely to be produced, in Panama.
Disbursements
45.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made over a period of
six years as follows:
(a) 76 percent of the civil works contract covering the construction
of the river diversion, dam and spillway, which represents the
estimated foreign component;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for ancillary electro-
mechanical equipment for the hydroelectric plant, equipment
for the La Fortuna switchyard, La Fortuna-David transmission
line and the Panama substation enlargement and its erection and
installation;
(c) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for the engineering
services for the final design and construction supervision of
the civil works and transmission system, preparation of bidding
documents and procurement of civil works and equipment; and
(d) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for consulting services
for the organizational improvement program and the foreign cost
of training.



- 15 -
Environmental Aspects
46.       A study on the environmental effects of the project has been carried
out by the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory (Panama), which concludes that the proj-
ect will not adversely affect the environment, provided certain specific
actions are taken, such as the establishment of a corps of forest keepers,
relocation of 120 families living in areas to be flooded, and the establishment
of a health division in the construction labor area. In addition, the study
recommends that a study be undertaken of the black fly in the zone of the
operator's village to establish a permanent control program in that area. If
the operator's village is established before the conclusions of the study
are known, a palliative control program of the black fly would be implemented.
The Gorgas study reports that there is no indication that the black flies in
the region transmit river blindness, a disease unknown in Panama. The Govern-
ment and IRHE are well aware of the impact of the project on the environment,
and are already carrying out some of the measures recommended in the Gorgas
study. The Government and IRHE have agreed to take all reasonable measures
including the measures recommended in the Gorgas report, to ensure that the
Project is carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.07, and draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04).
Return on Investment
47.       A rate of return has been calculated on an overall investment
program and takes into account the costs of the subtransmission and distri-
bution investments which are required for the output of the project to reach
the final consumers. The benefits include incremental sales to be generated
as a result of the project as well as the reduction in system operating costs
resulting from availability of lower cost hydropower to meet demand that would
otherwise be met by existing thermal plants. On this basis, the rate of
return has been estimated at 17.7 percent. A sensitivity analysis shows that
if investment and operating costs increase by 15 percent, the rate of return
would be 15.7 percent; if there were, in addition, a 15 percent reduction in
the average growth rate of energy sales, the rate of return would be 14.3
percent. The project represents the least cost solution for expanding the
supply of electricity.
48.       The actual economic rate of return of the project is likely to be
higher than the above calculations would indicate, since they do not include
benefits to industrial, commercial and other consumers whose costs would be
higher and output lower if they had to finance their own electricity generation
facilities. The calculations also do not include benefits that cannot be
measured by electricity rates.
Prolect Risks
49.       The major risk associated with the project is that IRHE's organi-
zation and financial capabilities may be overburdened by the complexity and
size of IRHE's expansion program. IRHE has agreed to hire management consul-
tants to assist it in implementing a thorough administrative reorganization.



- 16 -
To solve recent financial difficulties, the Government has authorized elec-
tricity rate increases that would permit IRHE to cover a sizable portion of
its investment program from internally generated funds. We consider that
these measures ensure that IRHE will be able to execute the project effi-
ciently and on a financially sound basis.
50.       The project also carries the normal risk associated with any large
construction venture of this nature. To assist it in dealing with problems
which may arise during construction (which are adequately provided for in
the physical contingency allowances), IRHE has engaged competent consultants
and would in addition be able to draw on the specialized expertise of the
internationally recognized members of the Board of Consultants.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Instituto de
Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Panama and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article II1, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
52.       Additional conditions of effectiveness would be satisfactory
arrangements for: (a) employment of management and accounting consultants
to assist IRHE in the reorganization of IRHE and the training of its staff;
(b) timely payment of public sector electricity bills; and (c) obtaining all
financing necessary for the project.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 15, 1977



a.                                                                                        -a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Z s                                                  -                  aW 
A- II                                                     0                                                       0C
I'l  ha 
la  .a  :-
S  kWl          S                                                                          - 41
a   sro                                                           . 
aCe  *                                 4     .A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4$~~~~~~~4t 
Ila   a
ama  S                                      -    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  4w- 
as ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.r           a                    ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  -:  -     a -a
cc                                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2WI
a S                                                                                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-rziwV:r 
is                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
a-c                                                                          NI                   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t at  -zo!! a ~40s
*  cia-- a.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                     A3  ~c       3 -  Il*"
.4<-S*  -  .                                                                                       055 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ :W~  a Z, i  ru  ": 
s-a wa-ac  .4-~  Sr-nan  a       a-  a     a-ct    (P-a-a             Ca        45  a &.afrat; 
M~~Wu     T  U. Tw  Z a                                     W-a  -
a.  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
12or  11                                     Z S   - :,.j on S... a- at   - 55  -    .      S.5% 
:~~~ :::  -n  a  -  : ~~~~~~~~~' ~~~-  cern  catan  a-  a-C       -   0 iCC     a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
as       ard     tcCa                          St-    4     550   tC



U  K O U K U . K .   K U K   6 U U . -5U K K K K UUK
KKU~  K U K  K  K  K,  K 4 U K U U K , U K K  UK   ~  U  K KZK 
UK  UKK  U.UK  KU.  CU~ ~ ~~ ~ S U U UK  U , 
a                   OK U
KU  UCKUU  -'  8t  U  U  K  ~~~~~~ *.a  U
I t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~8  U, 3KK
-9 P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUS;,                UUKUKK
Z Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ KK  .  K
tS.5  CI.!   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex I
Page 3 of 4 pages
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.        f                       1963 -68          1968 -73           1974-75
GNP at Market Prices          2244.7       100.0                       7.0                7.2             1.7
Gross Domestic Investment      633.9        28.2                      10.5               11.1            14.3
Gross National Saving          507.2        22.6                      14.3                7.1            4B.o
Current Account Balance       -126.7       -5.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           848.4       37.8                       8.2                4.5             4.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          975.5        43.5                       6.5               7.5             -4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Forsel/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Min..     $                  F Ml.      %                   OLS $         }
Agriculture                   360.3      17.0                 158.7     31.0                 2270.3       54.9
Industry                      527.8      24.9                  83.5     16.3                 6320.9      152.7
Services                     1231.5       58.1                261.1     51.0                 4716.5      113.9
Unallocated                                                     8.7      1.7                    _          -
Total/Average            .           .__
2119.6     100.0                 512.0    100.0               14T377       1io-
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                           23
General Government   2                         Central Government
(B.Min.)        % of ODP(B/                       Mln.)          of GDP
I976     I~3976P     19T3-75                 1976       197b    ~~11-7
Current Receipts                     -            -                               288.9        11.9           14.4
Current Expenditure                  -            -                                310.0        12.8          13.5
Current Surplus                     22.5          1.0           3.8               -21.1         -09            09
Capital Expenditures               373.5         17.0          12.0               115.5          4.8           6.1
External Assistance (net)          336.6          15.0          6.9                 966         14.            14.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1971         1972        1973        1974         1975         1976
(Million B/. outstanding end period
Money and Quasi Money                     339.9        440.4       506.4       596.4         622.1      675.3
Bank credit to Public Sector              17.0          16.3         6.1        71.4        219.0       310.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector            528.7         703.5       965.1      1229.3       1279.2      1301.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          29.4         33.9        34.4         34.3         27.5       30.0
General Price Index (1963 - 100)          118.1        128.1       141.6       184.4         210.3      218.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index   (wholesale)           5.4          8.5        10.5         30.2         14.0        3.8
Bank credit to Public Sector               54.5         -4.0       -63.0      1070.0         207.0       43.0
Bank credit to Private Sector             29.6          33.1        37.2        27.4           4.1        2.0
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal qccupation.     'Unalloqatmd5 consists
mainly of unemployed workera seeking their first job.    Excludes collective settlements and indigenous population.
2/ Excludes financial intermediaries. Includes Government owned enterprises.
3/ Cash basis.
b/ Demand, time and savings deposits only.    The amount of US dollars in circulation is unknown.
Balboa issues are limited to coins.



Annex I
Page 4 of 4 pages
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-75)
1973      1954     1975      1976                                       US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)               Bananas                          59.4       26.8
Exports of Goods, NFS         520.     751.5     848.4    788.2       Refined petroleum 3/            65.1       29.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        -584.5   -918.4     975.5    916.9       Shrimp                          i6.4        7.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     _    T  -166.9   -127.1   -128.7       Coffee                           2.?       1.0
Interest Payments (net)       -41.2-   -55.0     -20.4     -22.4      All other commodities           56.2       25.3
Workers' Remittances             -         -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)      -         -        -         -
Net Transfers                  -4.3      -4.2     -5.3      -2.6     All other commodities
Balance on Current Account   -110.0    -226.1   -152.8    -153.7          Total                         221.9   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      13.2      35.4      4.7       *-    EXTERNAL DE1T. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              156.8     196.7    170.0      ..                                                us $ Mln
Amortization               -58 3     -93.1    -31.3
Subtotal                    985      103.6    138.       ..       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            1,015
Capital Grants                  8.7       9.9      6.0       ..      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)       2/ -147-6    -194.8    13 C        .       Total outstanding & Disbursed            1,015
Increase in Reserves (+) -   -137.2   -272.0    -147.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 -/
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              12.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
P'uel and Related Materials                                           Ttlottnig6Dsusd1.
Imports                       91.5    277.4     330.7     265.0     Total outstanding & Disbursed             12.0
ofi which:  Petroleum       88.2    271.1     324.2     258.4
Exports                       75.9    227.5     263.1     192.2
of which:  Petroleum        75.9    227.5     263.1     192.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING. (4/30/1976) (Million US t)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD
Throuh      1 971              Since    -  19                   Outstanding & Disbursed              93.9
US8 $ 1.00=                     USi0=/..0n~disbursed                                                 57.4
1      u  $ D-            B    1.00    B US Lo           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        151.3
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services plus workers' remittances.
2/ Net foreign transactions of the banking system.
3/ Excludes sale of bunker oil.
!   Includes earnings of Panamanians who work in the Canal Zone.
not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
May 25, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (As at May 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number         Year          Borrower           Purpose         Amount      Undisbursed
5 loans      (1953-62)    Fully disbursed                         18.0             _
661-PAN        1970       IHRE                Power              42.0            0.2
783-PAN        1971       DAC                Airport             20.0            1.2
784-PAN        1971       Banco Nacional      Fisheries           3.4            0.1
901-PAN        1973       Banco Nacional      Livestock            4.7           1.6
948-PAN        1974       IHRE                Power              30.0            5.8
1114-PAN       1975       APN                Fishing Port        24.0           20.9
1280-PAN       1976       IDAAN              Water Supply
and Sewerage      12.0           12.0
1397-PAN /1    1977       Banco Nacional     Livestock            8.0            8.0
1398-PAN /1    1977       Banco Nacional      Fisheries           7.5            7.5
Total (less cancellations)                        169.6           57.3
of which has been repaid                         18.3
Total now outstanding                             151.3
Amount Sold                     8.5
of which has been repaid      2.6                 5.9
Total now held by Bank                             145.4
Total undisbursed                                                 57.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As at May 31, 1977)
Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                      Loan     Equity    Total
1971    Corporation de Desarrollo Hotelero                 1.2       0.3      1.5
Total gross commitments                            1.2       0.3      1.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                            0.1      0.0       0.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                  1.1       0.3      1.4
Total undisbursed                                    -         -        -
/    Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 661: Second Power Project; US$42 Million Loan of March 16, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project was completed in February 1977 with a 22 months delay
for the major component, the Bayano hydroelectric plant, which started oper-
ating in October 1976. The project cost is now estimated at US$96.6 million
or 84 percent above the appraisal estimate. Delays in project execution
resulted from shortage of materials and difficulties with the contractor. The
cost overruns are due mainly to larger than forecast inflation in Panama and
abroad during the project execution period, and construction problems. The
loan should be fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 783: Tocumen International Airport Project; US$20 Million Loan of
August 2, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project, which consists of construction of a new airport terminal
building, runway and auxiliary facilities for Panama City, is about 18 months
behind schedule. The project cost is now estimated at 100 percent above
appraisal estimates. However, because of substantial increases in benefits,
including those resulting from larger savings in aircraft operating costs, the
economic return of the project will be only slightly lower than appraisal
estimates. Delays in project execution have resulted in large part from
changes in design and bad weather conditions at the beginning of construction
which made earthworks difficult to execute. The overrun is due to these
delays and inflation. Runway paving and the construction of the terminal
building are now progressing satisfactorily, and the project should be com-
pleted by December 1977. The financial position of the borrower continues
to be strong due to continued demand for airport services and increased user
charges. The shortfall in the project financing plan, caused by cost increases,
has been covered by additional government equity funds.
Loan No. 784: Fisheries Project; US$3.4 Million Loan of August 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project, which is designed to increase efficiency of the
Panamanian shrimp industry, consists of (1) construction of shrimp trawlers;
(2) a trawler captains' training program; and (3) a fishing port feasibility
study. The construction of trawlers is completed; however, the scope of the
Project had to be reduced from the originally intended 40 trawlers to 26
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
trawlers due to escalation of costs. The captains' training program has also
been completed. The fishing port feasibility study was completed in February
1974, and led to the preparation of a project for which the Executive Directors
approved a loan in April 1975. As of May 31, 1977, the loan was 97 percent
disbursed.
Loan No. 901: Livestock Development Project; US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform
settlements, involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening; and technical
services, including an ongoing study of the livestock potential in the Atlantic
Coast Region. As of March 31, 1977, the loan was 91 percent committed and
66 percent disbursed. The loan should be fully disbursed on schedule even
though commitments have lagged behind appraisal estimates, due mainly to
initial delays in organizing the project unit.
Loan No. 948: Third Power Project; US$30 Million Loan of December 4, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is designed to integrate three of the four isolated
major regional electricity systems into a national grid. Project implemen-
tation is about 12 months behind schedule because of initial delays in engi-
neering, bidding, and procurement of major items--the 28 MW diesels, 230
kV lines, and substations. Project costs are currently estimated at 25
percent above appraisal estimates in large part due to inflation and a
longer than forecast execution period.
Loan No. 1114: Fishing Port Project; US$24 Million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The project consists of construction of a new fishing port at Punta
Vacamonte on the Pacific. Construction of the marine works, which began in
October 1976, is progressing well. It is expected that small delays which
resulted during bidding of the marine works contract will be recovered in
construction. Project costs are estimated at 26 percent above appraisal
estimates, but the project still yields an acceptable economic rate of return.
Loan 1280: Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project, which will provide improved water supply and sewerage
in the cities of Panama, Colon, Arraijan, Chorrera and the fishing port of
Vacamonte, and a metering program, is six months behind schedule because the
selection of consultants for the main components of the project took longer
than forecasted. The delay in selection of consultants resulted from changes
in the Borrower's management at the end of 1976. The consultants have now
been selected, and a design schedule prepared which is expected to permit
the Borrower to complete the project on schedule. Detailed design of some



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
components of the project is being carried out by the Borrower and it is
expected that construction of these components will begin in September. The
metering program will also begin in September. The financial position of the
Borrower has improved substantially over the past year and revenues are higher
than forecasted.
Loan No. 1397: Second Livestock Project; US$8 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982.
Not yet effective.
Loan No. 1398: Second Fisheries Project; US$7.5 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
(FORTUNA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identified by:          IRHE, with the assistance of C.T. Main,
Consultants (US)
(b)  Project Prepared by:            IRHE and C.T. Main (US)
(c)  First Presentation to Bank:     December 1973
(d) First Bank Mission to
Consider the Project:           March 1974
(e) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:              November 9, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:     May 20, 1977
(g) Planned Date of
Effectiveness:                   (October 1977)
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Special Conditions
The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a)  IRHE would sell power to large users at levels not lower than
the marginal cost of energy (para. 41);
(b) IRHE would carry out a study of the cost of service which would
be completed, and the findings sent to the Bank, by June 30, 1979,
and would discuss the study's recommendations with the Bank;
consultants for such a study would be contracted by December 31,
1977 (para. 40);
(c)  IRHE would in the future resort to short-term borrowings only
with the Bank's concurrence unless it has met a short-term
debt test; and would not incur debt without the Bank's
agreement if its net revenues are less than 1.4 times its
maximum projected debt service requirement (para. 39);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) IRHE would seek to maintain no more than 60 days of elec-
tricity billings outstanding and that the Government would
take all reasonable action to cause its agencies and political
subdivisions to pay their electricity bills no later than
60 days after billing (para. 39);
(e) IRHE would not, until the project has been completed,
undertake or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any new
major expansion project, other than those included in an
agreed-upon program, without the Bank's concurrence (para.
39);
(f) IRHE would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
inspection of the dam included in the project (para. 42);
(g) IRHE would seek the Bank's concurrence of the bidding
documents for the generating equipment and the complementary
transmission works and would complete complementary works
required for the project by June 1980, before the Fortuna
Project enters into operation (paras. 27 and 44);
(h) the Government and IRHE would increase electricity rates so
as to attain a 7 percent return on revalued assets in 1977,
8 percent in 1978,and 8.75 percent in 1979 and thereafter,
and would continue to revalue assets (para. 38);
(i) the Government and IRHE would take all reasonable measures
(including the measures recommended in the Gorgas Laboratory
Report) necessary to ensure that the project is carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors
(para. 46);
(j) the Government would provide IRHE with the equity contributions
included in the 1976-1980 National Development Plan, and the
amounts required for the main generating equipment for the
project and for complementary transmission facilities if IRHE
is not able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the
Bank (paras. 27 and 29);
(k) the Government and IRHE would have made satisfactory arrange-
ments for obtaining all necessary financing for purposes of
the project prior to loan effectiveness (para. 29);
(1) IRHE would have hired the consulting firm that will carry
out the organization and training programs prior to loan
effectiveness (para. 34); and
(m)  the Government would have implemented the speed-up procedures
designed to ensure timely payment of public sector electricity
bills prior to loan effectiveness (para. 39).



K                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD1-] 2706R
BS.                                                       sin azo  5,0                 Bls                          7E                          78                   MAY 1977M
PANAMA                                                                  Archipfelago de
! 2> ,  '-INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y                                               CMN   C
,A CAANINOLA                                   ELECTRIFICACION             v                                  COs?       .
2 IvtERIsE ,,       -    -                            (IRHE)
9~ F                        .-  -                                     .-   COLON              '          WPANAMA
Co9                _ \ \  >  -   -    '   g   '\     jCSPANPARMA                                                           PANAMA,
Q      ..' nCRo PCUNA  LA                                                                             A,
o0LcAi,N * E5~ O;O10LS-                         -5~ 
I/IACNO /dONT5;  $      BOCAS DEL TORO                                              j, -ACAMONTE
N         CRRV&tIA FOALA In                                           COCLE           - CAPRA
PAW0 CANOU~.                                                              PE--.EB                                     Archipeiago  j
*    b. - _ CHIRIQUI   ;-    @   0   i  ',   z' o A                                                     de as Peas,
,LSO  ,  _       VERAGU'A5 .        .                                           .            g
~~~0oNC0NOlToO                    O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LCE0
T.UE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
CANS SANCHEZ             PROJECT                UNDER CONSTRUCTION
Cvolbo / , *_<-GIVISlAnd$   <230                                       TRANSMISSION  LINE  TRANSMISSION LINES:           D 
An    <Sk     ~~~~~SONA.< /  X                               230 Kv. SUBSTATION  --230 KY.                         D Ao  R Iv_
_      //,,;      h   dsrlul     sh/lti ozl Ihls ,,2:p do no ) tz(PUEBTO;UT15 < -8HITE 2sE Mw. HYDRO VLANTA-255 Icv. \YLJOA RAITE N 
VG  lserldBantandl/rag[l/es  t     I  1r  }         I v.    N               FUTURE             ---~~PESEfUNDER  IIS Kz., 
- CUBA' ,-,                                       HERRERA           '          -  345 EnCoiba Island  M CAS.  SUBSTATIONS:
CPORI     230 Kv,                230 Kv
<,_e ,X7   - j,,   ,  9   9  J  X  LOS SANTOS                HY. IE.  RODEO PLANTS
MEXICO  <  5LIZE   JAMAICA-           _|___SUBSTATIONS: __YR
AONSDURAS                                                ,           ---         ., 345 Kv                  EXISTING r
ELATESALVAOOR llAGUA {t,5lQ x ._                                                                           , s 3 J  12130 KsX.  TRANSMISSION LINES  <X j CC      lO 2 K  IO 
EL SALVADOR  NIC RAOUA  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?*'  I  - -.  - ~~~~~INS K,O. 23D Kn.                                                         COLO      BI
PANAMA I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HYDRO PLANTS  lIE K,.
COSTA RI(- A  ,,,  VENEZUELA                                      PANAMA CANAL
CANnLLo  '~ B           p1 2D  zo  4p   BdMILES-- CANAL ZONE BOUNDARIES       THERMAL PLANTS -P--N UNDER 11 K,               EXISTING 
PA. A, Jf.,   ,  OLO31A0   2   40 SD   O KL R  PRDVINCIAL BOUNDARIES    *  23U  K E. SUBSTATIONS   A  HYDRO PLANTS
8,2                              8          -NERAIDA   BOUNDARIES  Vo                        UNDER IIS KY, SUBSTATIONS  THERMAL PLANTS  



