                                                                                                               93597
                                                                                                               May 29, 2012
Getting Macedonian Farm Products to EU Markets
Denis Boskovski, Country Officer in the Skopje Office, offers
this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
Four years ago, when Zlatko Georgievski heard farmers could
get financial assistance from the state to increase and
improve production, he applied for a grant. Even though his
dairy farm was small, Georgievski's ambition was to grow his
business and to produce for the large and ever-hungry
European Union market.

Consumed by his own day-to-day challenges, Georgievski
knew little about the hurdles state institutions faced to make
assistance to farmers like him available.                           Related Links

Toni Dimovski, the head of the newly formed Agency for              The World Bank in FYR Macedonia
Financial Support of Agriculture and Rural Development,             Agriculture Strengthening and
soon found out. He had to create an institution from scratch,       Accession Project
establish offices, define work processes and educate
                                                                    Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
employees. His challenge was to turn the agency—known as            Water Management
the Paying Agency—into a well-functioning service to help
                                                                    Agency for Financial Support of
Macedonian farmers be more productive and more
                                                                    Agriculture and Rural Development
competitive.

Dimosvki's aim was the same as Georgievski's: to move Macedonian agriculture to EU markets.

                         The challenge proved to be substantial. The agriculture sector accounts for 11%
                         of GDP and employs a fifth of the country's population, yet is not competitive.
                         There is little investment in technology, and commodity supply chains are poorly
                         developed. The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a candidate to join
                         the EU and thus has access to significant financial assistance from the EU for
                         agriculture. But the funds come with strings attached: new institutional and
                         regulatory requirements, as well as qualified personnel and infrastructure.

Zlatko Georgievski       The government requested World Bank assistance setting up with the new
                         system. The World Bank was happy to support the government's efforts through
the Agriculture Strengthening and Accession project.

                         The project left its mark. It strengthened the capacity of the Ministry of
                         Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Among other things, it improved the
                         agency's ability to formulate and implement effective policies, and it increased
                         the effectiveness of public expenditures in a way that complies with EU
                         requirements. Government assistance to farmers was improved. And the
                         necessary institutional framework was set up for the country to obtain pre-
                         accession EU rural development funds.

Toni Dimovski             In December 2009, the European Commission conferred full management of
                          these funds to the Macedonian Paying Agency. Macedonian farmers and agro-
food processors could then apply for grants to finance investments that would allow them to modernize
the country's agriculture, hire workers and be in a better position to access EU markets and compete
with the EU producers.

Macedonia's Paying Agency received its EU certification in record time. It is a regional leader in this area
and has been sharing its experience with others.

Zlatko still works his farm, one that has grown along with his ambition.
